                                  Planning and Development Services
                                  2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                  Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                  https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/




                         Kearns Planning Commission
                            Public Meeting Agenda **AMENDED**

                 Monday, September 18, 2023 5:30 P.M.
Meeting Location

KEARNS ATHLETIC TRAINING AND EVENT CENTER
5658 SOUTH COUGAR LANE
MEETING ROOM

 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                    BUSINESS MEETING

   1) Welcome and approval of the agenda. (Motion/Voting)
   2) Approval of the April 3, June 5, and July 10, 2023 Planning Commission Meeting
      Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
   3) Other Business Items. (As Needed)


                                    PUBLIC HEARING(S)

REZ2023-000970 - Kearns is considering a re-zone of approximately eight acres, located at 5622
South 5600 West. This re-zone is being initiated by Kearns Metro Township in order to increase
General Plan conformity and enhance compatibility with adjacent uses, including the new
commercial development on adjacent land within West Valley City. Planning staff will give a
presentation of existing conditions and considerations for the re-zone. The Planning Commission
will be asked to make a recommendation on the re-zone, following a public hearing. Planner:
Brian Tucker (Motion/Voting)

OAM2023-000974 - Clean-Up of Chapter 19.36 of Municipal Code. Staff are proposing text
amendments to the schedules of permitted uses in Chapter 19.36 Mixed-Use Zones. The

September 18, 2023                          Page 1 of 2                                AGENDA – KEARNS
amendment would remove new single-family detached homes from the list of permitted uses in
the Neighborhood Mixed-Use Zone (NMU). Staff will give a brief presentation on this
amendment. The Planning Commission will be asked to make a recommendation regarding the
text amendments, following a public hearing. Planner: Brian Tucker (Motion/Voting)

                                       ADJOURN




September 18, 2023                      Page 2 of 2                       AGENDA – KEARNS
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



September 18, 2023                                    Page 1 of 1                                   AGENDA – KEARNS
This page intentionally left blank
                                                      Planning and Development Services
                                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




**Notice of this meeting posted May 23, 2023 to https://www.utah.gov/pmn/sitemap/notice/802411.html and notices
                                           mailed out May 23, 2023**

                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                 KEARNS PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                     Monday, June 5, 2023 5:30 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 27 minutes                                    *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 1                                         found on the State and County websites, or from Planning
                                                                          & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Hatch

                                                  ATTENDANCE
                                Public     Business
        Commissioners                                    Absent
                                 Mtg         Mtg                                                               Public      Business
    David Taylor (Vice Chair)     x           x                                Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                                Mtg          Mtg
           Joy Nelson                                      x
                                                                                   Wendy Gurr                     x             x
       Joe Hatch (Chair)          x           x
                                                                                   Brian Tucker
         Laura Koester            x           x
                                                                                Curtis Woodward
         Gray Thomas              x           x
                                                                                  Kayla Mauldin                   x             x
                                                                                 Nathan Bracken                   x             x


                                                  BUSINESS MEETING

                                              Meeting began at – 5:30 p.m.
    1) Welcome and Approval of the Agenda. (Motion/Voting)

        Commissioner Hatch read the Chairs Opening Statement.

        Commissioner Taylor motioned to approve the agenda, Commissioner Thomas seconded that
        motion.

    2) Approval of the April 3, 2023 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
       Motion: To continue approval of the April 3, 2023 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes to July
       10th.
             Motion by: Commissioner
             2nd by: Commissioner
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor.


    3) Other Business Items (as needed)
       No other business items to discuss.


Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – June 5, 2023 – Meeting Summary                                              Page 1 of 3
                                           PUBLIC HEARING(S)

                                        Meeting began at – 5:32 p.m.

OAM2022-000724: Following their public hearing on April 3rd, 2023, the Planning Commission forwarded
a recommendation of adoption of Titles 18 and 19 (Subdivisions and Zoning) to the Council. After review,
the staff and Council identified an issue with the Multi-Family Residential standards in Chapter 19.30,
Medium and High-Density Residential Zones. Revisions to the original language have been drafted and
include added standards for single-family attached homes and new allowances for Residential
Neighborhood PUDs in RM and R-4-8.5 Zones. Staff will discuss these recommended revisions with the
Planning Commission before proceeding to the Council for final review and adoption. Planner: Kayla
Mauldin (Discussion / Possible Motion)

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Long Range Planner Kayla Mauldin provided an analysis of
the identified issues with the Multi-Family Residential standards.

Commissioners, staff, and Counsel had a brief discussion regarding less houses per dwelling, maximum
density, and standards limiting the density.

Commissioner Thomas motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Taylor seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

No one from the public was present to speak.

Commissioner Taylor motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Thomas seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend approval of file #OAM2022-000724 regarding issues with the Multi-Family
Residential standards in Chapter 19.30, Medium and High-Density Residential Zones. Revisions to the
original language have been drafted and include added standards for single-family attached homes and new
allowances for Residential Neighborhood PUDs in RM and R-4-8.5 Zones to the Kearns Council.
        Motion by: Commissioner Thomas
        2nd by: Commissioner Taylor
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

Commissioner Hatch advised of training on June 15th. Mr. Bracken advised of the 4-hour training
requirement passed by the legislature. Ms. Mauldin reminded the Commission of Night out against crime.

Commissioner Taylor motioned to adjourn, Commissioner Thomas seconded that motion.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 5:57 p.m.




Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – June 5, 2023 – Meeting Summary                   Page 2 of 3
                                                      Planning and Development Services
                                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




     **Notice of this meeting posted June 29, 2023 to https://www.utah.gov/pmn/sitemap/notice/843389.html**

                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                 KEARNS PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                     Monday, July 10, 2023 5:30 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 20 minutes                                    *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 3                                         found on the State and County websites, or from Planning
                                                                          & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Hatch

                                                  ATTENDANCE

                                Public     Business                                                            Public      Business
        Commissioners                                    Absent                Planning Staff / DA
                                 Mtg         Mtg                                                                Mtg          Mtg
    David Taylor (Vice Chair)                              x
           Joy Nelson             x           x                                   Wendy Gurr                      x            x
                                                                                  Brian Tucker
       Joe Hatch (Chair)          x           x
         Laura Koester            x           x                                    Jeff Miller                    x            x
         Gray Thomas                                       x                     Nathan Bracken




                                                  BUSINESS MEETING

                                              Meeting began at – 5:30 p.m.
    1) Welcome and Approval of the Agenda. (Motion/Voting)

        Commissioner Hatch read the Chairs Opening Statement.

        Commissioner Koester motioned to approve the agenda, Commissioner Nelson seconded that
        motion.

    2) Approval of the April 3, 2023 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
       Motion: To continue minutes from the April 3, 2023 Planning Commission Meeting to the next
       meeting.
              Motion by: Commissioner
              2nd by: Commissioner
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
        Approval of the June 5, 2023 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
        Motion: To continue minutes from the June 5, 2023 Planning Commission Meeting to the next
        meeting.
               Motion by: Commissioner
               2nd by: Commissioner

Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – July 10, 2023 – Meeting Summary                                             Page 1 of 2
                Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

    3) Other Business Items (as needed)
       No other business items to discuss.


                                       LAND USE APPLICATION(S)
                                        Meeting began at – 5:33 p.m.

SUB2023-000806 – Kent Withers is requesting preliminary plat approval for the 7-Lot Camp Kearns
Subdivision. Acreage: 7.87 acres. Location: 5220 West Thunderbolt Drive. Zones: C-2 (Commercial), M-
1 & M-2 (Manufacturing) Zones. Planner: Jeff Miller (Motion/Voting)

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Jeff Miller provided an analysis of the Staff Report.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant - Surveyor
Name: Kent Withers
Address: Not provided
Comments: Mr. Withers said there are seven existing parcels, with various gaps and overlaps. Intent is to
correct that and Salt Lake County dissolve and give back portions and released back to the landowners.
Correct the right-of-way lines and fix the title errors in the block.

Commissioner Nelson motioned to open the public meeting, Commissioner Koester seconded that motion.

Speaker # 2: Citizen
Name: Patrick Lucerp
Address: Not provided
Comments: Mr. Lucerp said he is assisting in putting together the lot lines. Kent has done a great job and
they are in favor.

Commissioner Koester motioned to close the public meeting, Commissioner Nelson seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To approve application #SUB2023-000806 Kent Withers is requesting preliminary plat approval
for the 7-Lot Camp Kearns Subdivision with staff recommendations.
        Motion by: Commissioner Koester
        2nd by: Commissioner Nelson
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

Commissioners and staff discussed the three-hour training and availability.

Commissioner Nelson motioned to adjourn, Commissioner Koester seconded that motion.

                                          MEETING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 5:51 p.m.


Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – July 10, 2023 – Meeting Summary                     Page 2 of 2
Meeting Body: Kearns Planning
Commission

Meeting Date: September 18,
2023
                                                               SUMMARY
Planner: Brian Tucker, Planning
Manager                               In June 2023, Kearns Metro Township repealed and replaced
                                      the entirety of its Subdivision and Zoning (Titles 18 and 19 of
File Number: REZ2023-000970
                                      Municipal Code). These changes were intended in part to
Project Type:                         bring greater consistency with the Kearns General Plan vision.
       Repeal of Text Ordinance       Following the revision of the text ordinances, the Kearns
       Amend Text Ordinance           Council identified the need to pursue re-zones (or map
       New Text Ordinance             amendments) to ensure that proper zoning is applied
       Re-Zone / Map Revision         throughout the municipality. This is the first re-zone
Areas Affected: This re-zone          application to be brought before the Planning Commission
would apply to three parcels          and Council following the text amendments.
along 5600 W in Kearns. The
                                      This re-zone is being initiated by Kearns Metro Township. The
parcel numbers include
                                      parcels under consideration represent approximately eight
20142320060000,
20142310180000, and                   acres along 5600 W, south of the existing Holiday Gas
20142320070000.                       Station. The parcels are currently zoned for Residential Multi-
                                      Family (RM) and Commercial (C-2) uses. The General Plan
Key Findings:
                                      envisions this area as mixed-use. The context is further
   •     The existing zoning of the   complicated by new development on adjacent parcels
         parcels does not support
                                      located within West Valley City. These parcels are being
         Kearns’ General Plan
                                      developed for exclusively commercial uses, including a car
         vision, nor does it
                                      wash and counter-service restaurants. This staff report
         leverage the opportunity
         provided by WVC’s            analyzes the potential benefits and downfalls of re-zoning
         adjacent development.        the identified parcels within Kearns for Neighborhood Mixed
   •     Various zones could lead     Use Zone (NMU), Corridor Mixed Use (CMU), or Commercial
         to increased General Plan    (C-2). Each of these options has different impacts on General
         conformity and better        Plan consistency and economic potential. Staff recommends
         compatibility with           that the Planning Commission review the options closely
         surrounding uses. The        before making a recommendation to the Council.
         CMU appears to offer the
         most benefit.                                      ATTACHMENTS

Staff Recommendation: Staff           The following attachments are included as supplementary
recommends that the Commission        materials to the end of this staff report:
make a recommendation to re-
                                      1.      Existing Parcel Map and Information
zone the identified parcels,
consistent with the analysis          2.      Development in West Valley City
presented herein.
                                      3.      Property owner’s preliminary submittal.

                       [Kearns 5600 W Re-zone / REZ2023-000970 / September 18, 2023] | Page 1 of 10
                                           BACKGROUND

The subject parcels are located at 5622 South 5600 West. These parcels include the larger parcel
owned by a private entity and two parcels that are owned by the Utah Department of
Transportation and are assumed to have been part of an acquisition to widen 5600 West (see
Figure 1). All three parcels are located south of the existing Holiday Gas Station and south of the
developing commercial parcels in West Valley City (see Figure 2).




Figure 1                                                               Figure 2

The gas station on the corner is within Kearns’ jurisdiction, but some of the land immediately
south and west of the gas station is within West Valley City’s boundaries. West Valley has approved
a number of commercial uses in recent months, including a Quick Quack Car Wash, Costa Rica,
Starbucks, Jersey Mike’s, and Jack-in-the-Box Restaurant.

The subject parcel is located immediately south of these West Valley developments, located within
Kearns’ jurisdiction. It is approximately 8 acres, currently zoned RM. The RM zone only allows for
commercial uses within 250’ of a bus stop, which this site is not. Because the current zone does
not allow commercial uses, this re-zone is being requested by Kearns Metro Township to capitalize
on the economic opportunity at the intersection of 5600 W and 5400 S. Kearns is extremely reliant
on sales tax revenue in order to fund essential municipal services and improvements. Thus,
increasing sales tax revenue is essential to Kearns’ financial solvency and has been a critical priority
for the Council. Because Kearns is largely developed with no additional land to annex, the subject
parcel is one of the few remaining undeveloped parcels with commercial potential. For instance,
some have also expressed interest in seeing a hotel on this site, as well as a sports bar and other
commercial uses.



                       [Kearns 5600 W Re-zone / REZ2023-000970 / September 18, 2023] | Page 2 of 10
The General Plan calls for this area to be Neighborhood Mixed-Use. This was intended to include
a variety of housing options (excluding single-family detached) and neighborhood commercial
uses, geared toward the adjacent residences. The Neighborhood Mixed Use Zone (NMU) recently
adopted by Kearns does not allow for the variety of commercial uses envisioned by the Mayor. In
addition, the lower density (15 du/acre) of the NMU may be less appealing to developers and may
be interpreted as a down-zone by the property owner. Staff originally discussed removing the
NMU zone from the alternatives proposed. However, the General Plan does call for Neighborhood
Mixed Use and it would be incongruous not to evaluate this zone along with the other potential
zones that could be applied to this property.

With the General Plan in mind, the three potential zones that are identified by the staff are the
Neighborhood Mixed Use Zone (NMU), Corridor Mixed Use (CMU), and Commercial (C-2) zones.
Staff has opted to compare zoning district conditions to one another and to the General Plan
recommendations; because Kearns is reliant on sales tax revenue, the analysis also considers the
economic impact of each of the re-zone options.

                                PROPOSED MAP AMENDMENT

Existing Conditions:

The area around 5600 West and 5600 South has seen the development of a significant number of
residential units in the last decade or so, primarily in West Valley. This development included the
development of a couple of commercial uses over that time frame but a number of well-placed
parcels within Kearns and West Valley had previously remained undeveloped. West Valley is finally
seeing that residential development reaching a critical mass, spurring the development of a
number of service and restaurant uses along 5500 West. This development and the more than
twenty thousand daily trips that pass this area every day, suggest that the time is ripe for the
subject parcels to develop.

Until approximately five years ago Kearns was part of the unincorporated area in Salt Lake County.
As the cities around the Kearns area incorporated and grew, they annexed much of the commercial
area near the Kearns community. When Kearns became a metro township, there was little
commercial tax base remaining, and Kearns has made it a priority to maximize what few
commercial opportunities remain, including the subject parcel.

Proposed Solution:

As mentioned previously, the subject parcel is zoned to allow only multi-family residential uses.
The fact that this property has been zoned multi-family for years and has seen no development,
along with the fact that at least five commercial establishments are being developed on adjacent
properties, suggest that the exclusively residential demand has been surpassed by the demand
for additional commercial retail, restaurant and similar uses. Upper floor and other secondary
residential placement may be appropriate as long as the commercial uses are primary. Therefore,



                       [Kearns 5600 W Re-zone / REZ2023-000970 / September 18, 2023] | Page 3 of 10
based on the projected demand for additional commercial uses and the relative lack of
commercial tax base within Kearns, the Kearns Council has initiated a rezone of this property.

The original Council request is for the property to be rezoned to Shopping Center Commercial (C-
2). Staff would like to suggest that the C-2 designation is not the only potential option and may
not be the best option to promote development that meets the Council’s desire for
commercialization. Other zones may offer a mix of uses that spurs development in a way that
eight acres of exclusively commercial land may not.

On September 8, 2023, the owner of the property submitted a proposed development for a project
that includes a 1-acre commercial pad on 5600 West, 25 live work units and 58 units with ground
floor “flex” space. The live work units are intended to have an office or small-scale service
commercial use on the first floor with the owner’s residence above the commercial space. Flex
units have a ground floor space that could be used for a business but are not intended to be
exclusively commercial in nature. This application was uploaded on the portal on September 8th,
2023, but at the time of this writing the application is not complete as the applicant has not paid
the required fees. Because the application was not complete, it has not vested and is not entitled
to review under Kearns’ current land use regulations pursuant to Utah Code 10-9a-509.
                                        STAFF ANALYSIS

General Plan Guidance:

Kearns General Plan, adopted in 2020, identifies this area as the “Neighborhood Mixed Use”
character area, noting that these parcels “present a prime opportunity for redevelopment in the
heart of a residential” area. The General Plan envisions that this area will “offer diverse housing
typologies, integrated with small scale commercial uses. The area is intended to serve the basic
commercial needs of existing residential neighborhoods while promoting new, compatible
housing development.”
“The future vision for the Neighborhood Mixed Use Character Area works toward several goals:
   •   Improving residential access to commercial needs;
   •   Providing new, diverse housing stock;
   •   Buffering existing residential neighborhoods from traffic along 5600 W; and
   •   Preserving Kearns’ views of the Oquirrh Mountains.“

Future Zoning Considerations (pg.58):
   •   Target Floor Area Ratio: 1:1 to 2:1.
   •   Target Building Heights: 1-3 stories.
   •   Target Maximum Density: up to 15 du per acre.
   •   Primary Uses: residential, neighborhood commercial.


                      [Kearns 5600 W Re-zone / REZ2023-000970 / September 18, 2023] | Page 4 of 10
•       Prohibited Uses: high-impact commercial/industrial, outdoor storage, single-family
        detached homes.
•       Parking and Unloading: on-site, off-street, shared parking.
•       Other Design Features:
    o    Preservation of the viewshed.
    o    Transparency on the first floor of mixed-use buildings.
    o    Internal pathways for people walking or biking.
    o    Landscaped entryways and parking lots.




                      [Kearns 5600 W Re-zone / REZ2023-000970 / September 18, 2023] | Page 5 of 10
Potential Zone Analysis:

The General Plan is a guidance document, and consistency with the General Plan is not mandatory.
With that said, the General Plan is intended to present the vision and goals of the community and
its guidance should be strongly considered in rezoning property and in shaping the zoning and
subdivision ordinance texts. None of the potential zones, including the current zone, perfectly fit
the General Plan vision for this character area.

Multi-Family Residential Zone (RM): The RM Zone is “intended to promote medium and high-
density residential housing of greater than four (4) units. Development projects in this zone should
accommodate multi-modal transportation opportunities, open space, amenities for units, limited
commercial uses, and provide buffering between high-density and low-density housing.”

 Pro’s:

     •    Meets the minimum density (15 du/acre) suggested by the General Plan.
     •    Single Family detached homes are prohibited in this zone, as intended by the General
          Plan.
     •    Height limits of 50’ (35’ adjacent to single family residential) will help preserve the view
          shed)

 Cons:

     •    Commercial uses are not allowed in this zone (for this parcel), contrary to the General
          Plan and the Council’s intent.
     •    Mixed uses that include commercial uses are prohibited. Given the location of these
          parcels, no commercial use, mixed or otherwise, is allowed.
     •    Single use residential in the form of townhomes, duplexes, tri-plexes, four-plexes,
          apartments and condominiums are allowed. These are not what the Council has
          indicated they prefer on these parcels.
     •    A maximum density of 30 du/acre is possible in a Planned Unit Development, a much
          greater density than envisioned by the General Plan.

Shopping Center Commercial (C-2) Zone. As part of the recent repeal and replace effort for Titles
18 and 19, the C-2 zone was changed from a relatively generic commercial zone to a zone that
specializes in regional or community shopping centers with at least 3 acres. The C-2 Zone is
“intended to provide retail uses, service-oriented businesses, offices, and restaurants in an
integrated center” with “common architecture, access, parking, signage, and landscape design.”

 Pro’s:

     •    Allows nearly all commercial uses, including the desired hotel and sports bar uses.

 Cons:



                       [Kearns 5600 W Re-zone / REZ2023-000970 / September 18, 2023] | Page 6 of 10
     •    Allows nearly all commercial uses, including Reiki, Sexually Oriented Businesses,
          Cemeteries, and Accessory Outdoor storage.
     •    Shopping Centers should be buffered from single family residential when possible and
          do not make especially effective buffers themselves as they tend to bring the vehicle
          traffic nearer the residential areas.
     •    No residential uses are allowed, even as an upper floor or other mixed-use configuration.
          The General Plan indicates that both residential and commercial uses are appropriate.
     •    The General Plan’s suggested floor area ratio of 1:1 or greater would be unlikely as these
          FAR’s are rare for shopping centers that are not located in densely populated areas with
          high property values.

Neighborhood Mixed Use (NMU) Zone. The neighborhood mixed use zone was recently adopted
by Kearns as part of the Title 18 and 19 project. “The NMU Zone is a residential zone that allows
a small-scale, horizontal or vertical mixture of neighborhood commercial uses to serve the daily
needs of area residents. This zone is intended only for small-scale, low impact uses, to promote a
better mixture of uses close to home and within a walkable environment.”

 Pro’s:

     •    Was written with the Neighborhood Mixed Use Character Area in mind.

     •    In accordance with the General Plan, residential and neighborhood commercial uses are
          the focus of this zone.
     •    In accordance with the General Plan, high-impact commercial/industrial, outdoor
          storage, and single-family detached homes are prohibited.
     •    A mix of commercial and residential uses is required, in either a vertical or horizonal
          format.
 Cons:

     •    Neighborhood commercial and residential uses are not what the Council has indicated
          they are looking for.
     •    Hotels and sports bars, among other more intense commercial uses, are not allowed in
          this zone.
     •    While a mix of commercial and residential uses is required, a primarily residential project
          with a small portion of minor commercial spaces could be developed in this zone.

Corridor Mixed Use (CMU) Zone. The corridor mixed use zone was recently adopted by Kearns as
part of the Title 18 and 19 project. The CMU Zone “promotes compact and walkable development,
diverse housing options, and proximity to shopping and services along transit corridors, especially
where infill development is desirable. The CMU allows for greater intensity of uses and building
footprints without disrupting surrounding neighborhoods.”
 Pro’s:


                       [Kearns 5600 W Re-zone / REZ2023-000970 / September 18, 2023] | Page 7 of 10
     •    While not written with the Neighborhood Mixed Use Character Area in mind, the
          Corridor Mixed Use Zone was created for the use on infill parcels with transit and
          moderately high vehicle counts in mind. These parcels on 5600 West fit all of these
          criteria.
     •    Single Family detached residential is prohibited.
     •    Hotels, sports bars, and many other commercial uses are allowed.
     •    While residential uses are allowed, the commercial uses must occupy the bottom floors
          and/ or the street facing spaces. Single use residential developments are prohibited.
     •    While residential uses are allowed in a mixed-use configuration, they are not mandatory
          in any building or even in the project.
     •    The CMU zone allows a developer to mix uses to make a project work but does require
          ground floor commercial.
     •    Residential uses are not allowed without significant commercial spaces that have a
          primacy of place.

 Cons:

     •    Even though commercial uses are mandatory, residential uses are also allowed if
          developed as a vertical or horizontal mixed use.
     •    Up to 30 du/acre could be allowed. Given that commercial space (and associated
          required parking) is mandatory and residential uses (and associated required parking)
          are allowed only as vertical or horizontal mixed use, these densities are unlikely without
          the building of a parking structure, it is nevertheless theoretically possible.

Notice:
Notice has been given in accordance with Utah Code 10-9a-205 and Kearns Code 19.16.080.
Review Procedure and Criteria:
The Kearns Metro Township Council is the land use authority for zoning map amendments. The
Council cannot amend the zoning map without first submitting the amendment to the Kearns
Metro Township Planning Commission for the Planning Commission’s recommendation. The
Planning Commission must hold a public hearing and review and recommend an action to the
Council. The Council must then hold a public meeting after which they may adopt, adopt with
revisions, or reject the zoning map amendment recommended by the Planning Commission.
A rezone can be approved if it is reasonably debatable that the decision could promote the public
welfare. It is not necessary to show that the decision actually promotes the public welfare, or is
the best alternative, as long as it is reasonably debatable that the public could benefit from the
decision. Similarly, a rezone can be denied if it is reasonably debatable that the decision could
detrimentally impact the public welfare.
This re-zone is being initiated by the Metro Township, not by the applicant. There may be
resistance from the property owners. Those owners have been given proper notice and have the


                       [Kearns 5600 W Re-zone / REZ2023-000970 / September 18, 2023] | Page 8 of 10
opportunity to present at the public hearing. Where the property owners did not request the
rezone, they may file a written protest no later than 10 days after the day of the first public hearing.
The written protest does not preclude the Council from rezoning the property.

                                    STAFF RECOMMENDATION

MSD Planning Staff have analyzed several different actions the Kearns Metro Township Council
could take, including leaving the property in the Residential Multi-Family (R-M) zone, rezoning to
the Shopping Center Commercial (C-2) zone, rezoning to the Neighborhood Mixed Use (NMU)
zone or rezoning the property to the Corridor Mixed Use (CMU) zone. Based on their review and
analysis, staff finds that:

   1. The Kearns Metro Township Council has indicated that the development of the subject
       parcels in a single use residential form is undesirable as it furthers the existing imbalance
       between residential and commercial uses within the township.
   2. The Residential Multi-Family (R-M) Zone, given that the subject parcels are located more
       than 250’ from a bus stop, precludes commercial development and requires exclusively
       residential development.
   3. The General Plan identifies the property as a Neighborhood Mixed Use Character Area and
       indicates that a mix of commercial and moderate density residential uses are appropriate
       for the subject parcels.
   4. The Shopping Center Commercial (C-2) zone does not allow residential uses of any kind,
       including as part of a vertical or horizontal mixed use, contrary to the adopted General
       Plan.
   5. The Neighborhood Mixed Use (NMU) zone and Corridor Mixed Use (CMU) zones both
       allow a mix of residential and commercial uses, as indicated by the Kearns General Plan.
   6. The Neighborhood Mixed Use (NMU) zone does require some commercial space but
       would allow a primarily residential project as long as there is minimal commercial space.
   7. The property owner has made an application for a project that includes a 1-acre
       commercial pad on 5600 West, 25 live work units and 58 units with “flex space” that could
       potentially be used for small scale commercial or residential activities. A project with
       similar attributes could be allowed under the Neighborhood Mixed Use (NMU) zone.
   8. The Kearns Metro Township Council has indicated that the development of the subject
       parcels must be primarily, if not exclusively commercial.
   9. The type of uses allowed in the Neighborhood Mixed Use (NMU) zone are primarily geared
       toward local residents rather than the community or even regional draws the Kearns
       Council prefers.
   10. The Corridor Mixed Use (CMU) zone is intended for infill and other development along
       corridors with public transit and moderate vehicle traffic.
   11. The subject parcels are located on one of the few developable parcels in a primarily
       residential area with public transit, good vehicular access and exposure.



                       [Kearns 5600 W Re-zone / REZ2023-000970 / September 18, 2023] | Page 9 of 10
   12. The Corridor Mixed Use (CMU) zone allows the property to be developed in an exclusively
       commercial manner but also allows a developer to mix commercial and residential.
   13. If the Corridor Mixed Use (CMU) zone is adopted, the plan the property owner has
       submitted would need revisions to likely add more single use commercial space (mixed
       use or pads) and potentially eliminate at least the flex units adjacent to 5600 West. The
       live work units would meet the criteria for mixed use, but without some tweaking the flex
       units may not.

Given the above findings, staff recommends the following action:

The MSD Planning Staff recommend that the subject parcels be rezoned to Corridor Mixed Use
(CMU). The CMU zone allows for a wide variety of commercial uses, along with multi-family
residential uses that are located above or behind a commercial use.

                      POTENTIAL PLANNING COMMISSION ACTIONS

The Planning Commission’s role in the rezoning process is to provide a recommendation to the
Kearns Metro Township Council. After taking public comment at the hearing, the Planning
Commission could take any of the following actions, among others:

Option 1. Recommend that the Kearns Council rezone the property to Corridor Mixed Use (CMU)
          as recommended by the MSD Planning Staff.
Option 2. Recommend that the Kearns Council rezone the property to Neighborhood Mixed Use
          (NMU).
Option 3. Recommend that the Kearns Council rezone the property to Shopping Center
          Commercial (C-2) as initially requested.
Option 4. Recommend that the Kearns Council not rezone the property, leaving the property in
          the Residential Multi-Family (R-M) zone.
Option 5. Table the matter, requesting more information from the Planning Staff.


                                         NEXT STEPS

The Planning Commission recommendation will be taken to the Council, who has ultimate
authority to make a decision regarding a re-zone. Re-zoning the land opens up new opportunities
for development, but the Metro Township has no control over if/when/how the parcels are
developed except as allowed within the constraints of the zoning district,




                    [Kearns 5600 W Re-zone / REZ2023-000970 / September 18, 2023] | Page 10 of 10
Attachment #1 - Existing Parcel Map and Information
Attachment #2 – Development in West Valley City
                Attachment #3 - Property Owner's Preliminary Submittal




THE VIEWS III TOWNHOMES
KEARNS, UTAH

27 JUNE, 2023
                                                                                                   P RO
                                                                                                          PE R
                                                                                                                 TY L
                                                                                                                     I   NE
                                                                                                                                  6' F
OVERALL SITE PLAN                                                                           30'-0




                                                                       LINE
                                                                                                 "                                    ENC
                                                                                                                                                E
                                                                                        SETB




                                                                    TY
                                                                                             AC                                                                           6' FENCE




                                                                PER
                                                                                                   K                                                                                                                                                       PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VIEWS III TOWNHOMES




                                                             PRO
                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W/ COMMERCIAL SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                 2
                                                                                                                                                                                            16




                                                                                                                              E
                                                   EQ .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UNITS           TOTAL w/ COMMERCIAL SQ. FT. CALCS.




                                                                                                                          DRIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PICKLE BALL




                                              AS R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COM. SPACE S.F.




                                                                                                                       26'
                                             ATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            24 x 32         RETENTION POND                                     1J              2 UNITS @ ±458 SQ. FT.    916 SQ. FT.




                                         6' G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PAVILION
                                                                                                                                          GUE                                                                                                                                                                                                  2K              6 UNITS @ ±368 SQ. FT.    2,208 SQ. FT.
                                                                                                                                             ST P
                                                                                                                                                 ARK
                                                                                                                                                     I NG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3L              14 UNITS @ ±303 SQ. FT.   4,242 SQ. FT.

                                  N CE
                                6' FE                                                                                                                 26'
                                                                                                                                                            DR I                                                                                                                                                                               1C              2 UNITS @ ±658 SQ. FT.    1,316 SQ. FT.
                                                                                                                                                                VE
                                    30'-0                                                      3
                                         "                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1D              1 UNIT @ ±658 SQ. FT.     658 SQ. FT.




                                                                                                                                                                                                       C.W.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C.W.
                                SETB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           26' DRIVE
                                     AC   K                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL           25 UNITS                  9'340 SQ. FT.
                                                                                                                                          5


                                                                                           E
                                                                                       DRIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARKING            TOTAL
                                                                                   26'                                                                                                                                 C.W.                                                                                                            RETAIL PARKING STALLS   30 STALLS
                 TYLINE
             PER
            PRO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROPERTY LINE
                                                            4                                                6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VIEWS III TOWNHOMES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14
                                                                                                                                                                                      15                                                                                                                                                           W/ FLEX SPACE
           PRO
                 PER




                                                                                                                                                                          26' DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            26' DRIVE
                     TY L
                          INE                                                                                                             26' DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                                            UNITS           TOTAL w/ FLEX SQ. FT. CALCS.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                26' DRIVE
                                                     "




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMMERCIAL PAD
                                                   25'-0

                                                               A CK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FLEX SPACE S.F.
                                  6' W
                                      ALL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.01 AC.
                                                           SETB




                                              AS R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1J - R         7 UNITS @ ±160 SQ. FT.     1,120 SQ. FT.
                                                  QUI
                                                     RED                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2K - R         20 UNITS @ ±217 SQ. FT.    4,340 SQ. FT.

                                                                                        25'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3L - R         31 UNITS @ 0 SQ. FT.       0 SQ. FT.
                                                                                       SETBACK
                                                                                                                   7                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TOTAL           58 UNITS                   5,460 SQ. FT.
                                                                       PROPERTY LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                           GUEST PARKING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PARKING            TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GUEST PARKING STALLS     27 STALLS
                                                                                                                                      9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13
                                                                                                                                                 10
                                                                      6' FENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                              11
                                                                                                                                                                                           26' DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SETBACK                                                                                    NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                     PROPERTY LINE                 6' FENCE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COLORS ARE REPRESENTATIONAL ONLY


                                                                                                                                                                                           THE VIEWS III TOWNHOMES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KEARNS, UTAH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  27 JUNE, 2023
UNIT TYPE 1J-R




                                                                                                   M. CLOSET
                                                                                                                              BEDROOM
                                                                   MASTER BEDROOM                                           12' - 0" x 12' - 6"
                                                                      12' - 0" x 14' - 5"

                       GARAGE
                   19' - 0" x 21' - 5"                                                             M. BATH

                                                                WASHERDRYER

                                                        MECH.     LAUNDRY                                                   BATH



                                                                                             DN.
                                                                                                                            CLST.                  DN.


                                  UP                                                         UP
                                                                    KITCHEN
         BATH                                                     10' - 0" x 13' - 4"
                                                                                                                                  FLEX
                                                                                                                            12' - 0" x 10' - 8"

                                               FLEX                                                LIVING ROOM
                                         10' - 0" x 12' - 4"                                        11' - 0" x 12' - 4"
                FLEX                                                      DINING
          12' - 0" x 11' - 0"
                                                                      12' - 0" x 9' - 4"
                                                                                                                                 DECK
                                                                                                                            12' - 0" x 7' - 6"




                           LELVEL 1                                                        LELVEL 2                                               LELVEL 3




                                                                                                                                                         COLORS ARE REPRESENTATIONAL ONLY


                                                                         THE VIEWS III TOWNHOMES
                                                                                                             KEARNS, UTAH

                                                                                                                                                                                27 JUNE, 2023
UNIT TYPE 1J-R




                                                                                                 M. CLOSET
                                                                                                                            BEDROOM
                                                                 MASTER BEDROOM                                           12' - 0" x 12' - 6"
                                                                    12' - 0" x 14' - 5"

                       GARAGE
                   19' - 0" x 21' - 5"                                                           M. BATH

                                                              WASHERDRYER

                                                      MECH.     LAUNDRY                                                   BATH



                                                                                           DN.
                                                                                                                          CLST.                  DN.


                                  UP                                                       UP
                                                                  KITCHEN
         BATH                                                   10' - 0" x 13' - 4"
                                                                                                                                FLEX
                                                                                                                          12' - 0" x 10' - 8"


                                                                                                 LIVING ROOM
                                              FLEX                                                11' - 0" x 12' - 4"
           BEDROOM                       10' - 8" x 9' - 0"
                                                                        DINING
          12' - 0" x 11' - 0"
                                                                    12' - 0" x 9' - 4"
                                                                                                                               DECK
                                                                                                                          12' - 0" x 7' - 6"




                           LELVEL 1                                                      LELVEL 2                                               LELVEL 3




                                                                                                                                                       COLORS ARE REPRESENTATIONAL ONLY


                                                                       THE VIEWS III TOWNHOMES
                                                                                                           KEARNS, UTAH

                                                                                                                                                                              27 JUNE, 2023
UNIT TYPE 2K-R



                                                 STORAGE                        DECK
                                                3' - 6" x 5' - 6"        14' - 0" x 6' - 0"

                                                                                                                                         M. CLOSET
                                                                                                                                        6' - 5" x 8' - 11"

                   GARAGE                                                   DINING                           MASTER BEDROOM
                                                                                                               11' - 2" x 15' - 0"
                                                                         14' - 2" x 8' - 4"
                 18' - 0" x 21' - 5"

                                                                                                                                          LAUNDRY


                                                              KITCHEN
                                                          11' - 6" x 10' - 4"
           MECH.                                                                                              M. BATH
                                  MUD
                                        PWDR.
                                                                                   DN.
                                                                                                                                       DN.
                                  UP                                               UP

                                        CLST.

                                                            LIVING ROOM
                  FLEX
            14' - 6" x 11' - 6"                              13' - 8" x 11' - 6"
                                                                                                                  BEDROOM                     BATH
                                                                                                                12' - 2" x 11' - 6"




                     LELVEL 1                                          LELVEL 2                                            LELVEL 3




                                                                                                                                      COLORS ARE REPRESENTATIONAL ONLY


                                                        THE VIEWS III TOWNHOMES
                                                                                              KEARNS, UTAH

                                                                                                                                                             27 JUNE, 2023
UNIT TYPE 2K-R



                                                 STORAGE                        DECK
                                                3' - 6" x 5' - 6"        14' - 0" x 6' - 0"

                                                                                                                                         M. CLOSET
                                                                                                                                        6' - 5" x 8' - 11"

                   GARAGE                                                   DINING                           MASTER BEDROOM
                                                                                                               11' - 2" x 15' - 0"
                                                                         14' - 2" x 8' - 4"
                 18' - 0" x 21' - 5"

                                                                                                                                          LAUNDRY


                                                              KITCHEN
                                                          11' - 6" x 10' - 4"
           MECH.                                                                                              M. BATH
                                  MUD
                                        PWDR.
                                                                                   DN.
                                                                                                                                       DN.
                                  UP                                               UP

                                        CLST.

                                                            LIVING ROOM
                  FLEX
            14' - 6" x 11' - 6"                              13' - 8" x 11' - 6"
                                                                                                                  BEDROOM                     BATH
                                                                                                                12' - 2" x 11' - 6"




                     LELVEL 1                                          LELVEL 2                                            LELVEL 3




                                                                                                                                      COLORS ARE REPRESENTATIONAL ONLY


                                                        THE VIEWS III TOWNHOMES
                                                                                              KEARNS, UTAH

                                                                                                                                                             27 JUNE, 2023
UNIT TYPE 3L

                                                                                       BALCONY




                                                               FLEX                    DINING
                                                                                                               BATHROOM                BEDROOM
                                                         10' - 0" x 10' - 0"      10' - 8" x 10' - 5"                                12' - 7" x 10' - 11"


                       GARAGE
                    21' - 0" x 20' - 11"                                                                         CLOSET
                                                                                                               8' - 0" x 5' - 5"
                                                                                                                                             M. CLOSET
                                                        BATHROOM                   KITCHEN                                                  8' - 5" x 6' - 5"
                                                                                                             WASHERDRYER
                                                                               11' - 9" x 13' - 10"
                                                                                                                LAUNDRY
                                                                                                               8' - 1" x 6' - 3"


               UP                                                UP                                                                        M. BATH
                            BATHROOM            MECH.

                                                                                                                                                            LINEN


                                                                               LIVING ROOM
                                                                               13' - 2" x 12' - 2"

                                       FLEX                                                                                         MASTER BEDROOM
                                12' - 6" x 13' - 8"                                                                                  12' - 6" x 13' - 11"
                                                        DN.                                                    DN.

                                                                                       DECK




                    LELVEL 1                                              LELVEL 2                                                 LELVEL 3




                                                                                                                                        COLORS ARE REPRESENTATIONAL ONLY


                                                              THE VIEWS III TOWNHOMES
                                                                                              KEARNS, UTAH

                                                                                                                                                                    23 JUNE, 2023
UNIT TYPE 3L-R

                                                                                          BALCONY




                                                                FLEX                    DINING
                                                                                                             BATHROOM                  BEDROOM
                                                          10' - 0" x 10' - 0"       10' - 8" x 10' - 5"                              12' - 7" x 10' - 11"


                         GARAGE
                      21' - 0" x 20' - 11"                                                                     CLOSET
                                                                                                             8' - 0" x 5' - 5"
                                                                                    KITCHEN                                                       M. CLOSET
                                                         BATHROOM                12' - 4" x 12' - 6"       WASHERDRYER                           8' - 5" x 6' - 5"

                                                                                                              LAUNDRY
                                                                                                             8' - 1" x 6' - 3"




                                                                                                                                         LINEN
                                                                                                                                                 M. BATH
                                                MECH.
                 UP                                               UP
                 MUD
                                 BATH            CLST.

                                                                                LIVING ROOM
                                                                                13' - 2" x 13' - 11"


                                                                                                                                    MASTER BEDROOM
             ENTRY                  BEDROOM                                                                                          12' - 6" x 13' - 11"
                                  12' - 6" x 12' - 6"    DN.                                                 DN.

                                                                                        DECK




                      LELVEL 1                                          LELVEL 2                                                 LELVEL 3




                                                                                                                                    COLORS ARE REPRESENTATIONAL ONLY


                                                          THE VIEWS III TOWNHOMES
                                                                                            KEARNS, UTAH

                                                                                                                                                                     27 JUNE, 2023
UNIT TYPE 1C


                                                                                                                                          KITCHEN
                                                                                                                                      15' - 0" x 14' - 6"
                                                                                                                                                                                        WASHERDRYER
                 FLEX                                                                                                                                                                     LAUNDRY                M. BATH M. CLOSET
           23' - 0" x 14' - 6"                                                                                 DINING
                                                                                                          8' - 10" x 12' - 2"
                                                                                                                                                                           UP     DN.

                                                                     GARAGE




                                                                                                                                                                   LINEN
                                                                 21' - 5" x 19' - 0"
                                             BATH                                                                                                                                                               MASTER BEDROOM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12' - 2" x 13' - 5"
                                                                                                                                                                           BATH
                             FLEX                                                                                                                                                          BEDROOM
                                                                                                                                      LIVING ROOM                                        13' - 8" x 11' - 11"
                       14' - 0" x 13' - 0"                                                                                            15' - 0" x 14' - 6"
                                                        MECHANICAL




                                             LELVEL 1                                                                                                                             LELVEL 2


                                                                                                                                                            BATH

                                                                                                                                     FLEX
                                                                                                                                9' - 9" x 12' - 2"
                                                                                                                                                                                  DN.




                                                                                                                                             DECK
                                                                                                                                      15' - 0" x 14' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                                  LELVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                        COLORS ARE REPRESENTATIONAL ONLY


                                                                                       THE VIEWS III TOWNHOMES
                                                                                                KEARNS, UTAH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               27 JUNE, 2023
UNIT TYPE 1D




                                                                                                                                                                                                DRYERWASHER
                                                                                                                                          KITCHEN
                                                                                                                                       15' - 0" x 14' - 6"

                     FLEX                                                                                                                                                              LAUNDRY                 M. BATH M. CLOSET
               23' - 0" x 14' - 6"                                                                                 DINING
                                                                                                              8' - 10" x 12' - 2"
                                                 UP                                                                                                                    UP     DN.

                                                                         GARAGE
                                                                     21' - 5" x 19' - 0"
                                                  BATH                                                                                                                                                        MASTER BEDROOM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                12' - 2" x 13' - 5"
                                                                                                                                                                       BATH
                                 FLEX                                                                                                                                                   BEDROOM
                                                                                                                                       LIVING ROOM                                    13' - 8" x 11' - 11"
                           14' - 0" x 13' - 0"                                                                                         15' - 0" x 14' - 6"
                                                            MECHANICAL




                                                 LELVEL 1                                                                                                                     LELVEL 2


                                                                                                                                                                BATH

                                                                                                                                         FLEX
                                                                                                                                    9' - 9" x 12' - 2"
                                                                                                                                                                                DN.




                                                                                                                                                 DECK
                                                                                                                                          15' - 0" x 14' - 0"




                                                                                                                                                                              LELVEL 3
                                                                                                                                                                                    COLORS ARE REPRESENTATIONAL ONLY


                                                                                           THE VIEWS III TOWNHOMES
                                                                                                    KEARNS, UTAH

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             27 JUNE, 2023
BUILDING TYPE A
BUILDING TYPE B
BUILDING TYPE C
BUILDING TYPE D
BUILDING TYPE E
BUILDING TYPE F
BUILDING TYPE G
BUILDING TYPE H
BUILDING TYPE J
BUILDING TYPE K
BUILDING TYPE L
Meeting Body: Kearns Planning
Commission

Meeting Date: September 18,
2023
                                                                 SUMMARY
Planner: Brian Tucker, Planning
Manager                                 In June 2023, Kearns Metro Township repealed and replaced
                                        the entirety of its Subdivision and Zoning (Titles 18 and 19 of
File Number: OAM2023-000974
                                        Municipal Code). The Titles that Kearns adopted were
Project Type:                           adapted from a Model Code that the MSD Staff created. This
          Repeal of Text Ordinance      Model Code was the result of 18 months of reformatting,
          Amend Text Ordinance          rewriting, and re-thinking the codes by the staff and later by
          New Text Ordinance            the elected and appointed officials.
          Re-Zone / Map Revision
                                        Initially existing single-family homes were listed as permitted
Areas Affected: There are               uses, with the idea being that they would not become non-
currently no parcels or portions of
                                        conforming uses if one of the Mixed-Use Zones was applied
parcels zoned Neighborhood
                                        to a property with an existing single family home. Later edits
Mixed Use. The amended code
                                        changed the use table to include all single-family detached
would apply only to future
rezones where the NMU Zone              homes, including new single family detached homes.
was applied.                            Subsection 19.36.090.E was added to clarify that existing
                                        dwelling units legally constructed prior to the adoption of the
Key Findings:
                                        code were to remain as permitted uses. The use table was
      •     Single Family detached      inadvertently left with a P for permitted use in the table for
            structures were never
                                        the Neighborhood Mixed Use (NMU) zone instead of edited
            intended to be allowed in
                                        to read X for prohibited. This text amendment would fix this
            the Neighborhood Mixed
                                        inadvertent error, prohibiting single family detached homes
            Use Zone.
      •     The ordinance adopting      while allowing existing single family detached homes to
            the Neighborhood Mixed      continue as permitted uses.
            Use Zone included a         An additional scrivener’s error was made in section
            scrivener’s error.
                                        19.36.030.D which resulted in two subsection 19.36.030.D.1’s.
Staff Recommendation: Staff             The proposed ordinance would correctly number the
recommends that the Commission          subsection.
make a recommendation to re-
zone the identified parcels,                                STAFF RECOMMENDATION
consistent with the analysis            Staff finds that:
presented herein.
                                         1. The Kearns General Plan indicates that single family
Attachments:
                                            detached residential units would be prohibited within
1.    Proposed ordinance.
                                            the Neighborhood Mixed Use Character Area.
                                         2. In the Neighborhood Mixed-Use (NMU) zone, Single-
                                            Family detached should be a prohibited use.

     [Kearns Mixed-Use Chapter text amendment / OAM2023-000974 / September 18, 2023] | Page 1 of 5
   3. In the early drafts of the Mixed-Use Zones Chapter, the single family detached homes row
      applied only to existing single-family detached homes.
   4. Later edits, including the addition of subsection 19.36.090.E, were intended to clarify that
      new single family detached homes were prohibited but existing homes would continue to
      be permitted uses.
   5. These later edits failed to include marking the use table with an X for prohibited, leaving
      the table to suggest that single family detached homes were a permitted use.
   6. An additional editing error was made in numbering subsection 19.36.030.D which resulted
      in two subsection 19.36.030.D.1’s rather than a 19.36.030.D.1 and 19.36.030.D.2 as
      intended.

Given the above findings, staff recommends the following action:

The MSD Planning Staff recommend that the Planning Commission recommend approval of the
attached ordinance to the Kearns Metro Township Council.

                      POTENTIAL PLANNING COMMISSION ACTIONS

The Planning Commission’s role in the rezoning process is to provide a recommendation to the
Kearns Metro Township Council. After taking public comment at the hearing, the Planning
Commission could take any of the following actions, among others:

Option 1.   Recommend that the Kearns Council adopt the attached ordinance.
Option 2.   Recommend that the Kearns Council adopt the attached ordinance with changes.
Option 3.   Recommend that the Kearns Council take no action.
Option 4.   Table the matter, requesting more information from the Planning Staff.


                                         NEXT STEPS

The Planning Commission recommendation will be taken to the Council, who has ultimate
authority to make a decision regarding text amendments.




   [Kearns Mixed-Use Chapter text amendment / OAM2023-000974 / September 18, 2023] | Page 2 of 5
                               Attachment #1 - Proposed Ordinance

19.36.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses.
A. Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in the following schedule are permitted in the
   zones as indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions, additional restrictions, and
   exceptions set forth in this Title.
B. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a combination
   of uses other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.36.030, the more restrictive provisions of
   this Title shall apply. For example, if a portion of a development is subject to conditional use (“C”)
   approval and the other portion is subject only to permitted use (“P”) review, the entire development
   shall be reviewed and approved by the conditional use process.
C. Abbreviations. The abbreviations used in the schedule mean:
    1. P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional restrictions
       and approval processes as provided in this Title.
    2. C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional because of the unique characteristics or potential
       impacts on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses, incompatibility in some
       areas of the zone, or compatibility only if special provisions or conditions are required to mitigate
       the detrimental impacts of the use. The Planning Commission is the land use authority for uses
       with this designation.
    3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically identified in Table
       19.36.030 is prohibited in this zone.
             Table 19.36.030: Schedule of Permitted Uses in the Mixed Use Zones.
                             Use Categories                            NMU      TC          CMU
RESIDENTIAL USES: D
Accessory Dwelling Unit, Detached or Internal                            P       X            X
Dwelling, Multiple Family                                                X       P            P
Dwelling, Single Family E                                               PX       X            X
Dwelling, Single Family Attached                                         P       X            P
Dwelling, Three- and Four-Family                                         P       P            P
Dwelling, Two-Family (Duplex)                                            P       X            X
Educational Facility with Residential Accommodation                      X       X            P
RETAIL AND SERVICE:
Bank, Credit Union, or Other Financial Institution                       P       P            P
Car and Light Truck Wash                                                 X       X            P

Child or Adult Care Facility                                                  P       P       P
Laundry Cleaning, Automatic Self-Help                                         P       P       P
Laundry Cleaning Drop-Off                                                     P       P       P
Liquor and/or Wine Store                                                      X       P       P
Mobile Store                                                                  X       P       P
Personal Care Services                                                        P       P       P
Personal Instruction Services                                                 P       P       P

   [Kearns Mixed-Use Chapter text amendment / OAM2023-000974 / September 18, 2023] | Page 3 of 5
Post Office                                                           P     P      P
Reception Hall, Reception Center                                      X     P      P
Retail Sales                                                          P     P      P
Retail Shops or Galleries where Primary Product is Produced On-Site   P     P      P
Self-Service Gas Station, with or without Convenience Store           X     X      P
Shopping Center                                                       X     C      C
FOOD AND DRINK:
Bars and Clubs                                                        X     P       P
Breweries and Distilleries, with or without restaurant                X     P       P
Food Truck, Mobile Restaurant, Food Cart                              X     P       P
Restaurant, Fast Food                                                 P     P       P
Restaurant, Sit Down with or without Alcohol                          P     P       P
LODGING:
Bed and Breakfast                                                     P     P       P
Hotel/Motel                                                           X     P       P
Short Term Rental                                                     X     P       P
OFFICE:
Offices – General, Professional, and Trade Services                   P     P       P
RECREATIONAL:
Commercial Recreation and Entertainment, Indoor                       X     P       P
Outdoor Recreation, Small Scale                                       X     X       P
Theatres and Concert Halls (Indoor)                                   X     P       P
INDUSTRIAL USES:
Light or Heavy Industry F                                             X     X       X
INSTITUTIONAL USES:
Animal Hospital or Clinic                                             X     P       P
Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Temple, Cathedral, or other religious      P     P       P
buildings
Community Garden                                                      P     P       P
Educational Facility                                                  P     P       P
Public or Quasi-Public Use                                            P     P       P
Public Park                                                           P     P       P
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS, SUBJECT TO CHAPTER 19.18:
Condominium Conversion Planned Unit Developments                      P     P      P
Infill Development Planned Unit Developments                          C     C      C
Residential Neighborhood Planned Unit Developments                    X     X      X
Residential Community Planned Unit Developments                       X     X      X
Mixed Use Planned Unit Development                                    C     C      C
Commercial Planned Unit Developments                                  X     X      X
SPECIALTY:
Medical, Urgent Care, and Dental Clinic                               X     P       P

   [Kearns Mixed-Use Chapter text amendment / OAM2023-000974 / September 18, 2023] | Page 4 of 5
Mortuary or Funeral Home                                                    X       P       P
Park and Ride                                                               X       X       P
Parking Lot (not associated with other use)                                 X       X       X
ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory Structures, Garages, Carports, and Structures subject to this     P       P       P
Title.
Drive-Thru and Drive-Up Facilities                                          P       X       P
Home Occupation, subject to 19.42.                                          P       P       P
Sidewalk Displays and Sidewalk Cafes                                        P       P       P
NONCONFORMING USES:
Pre-Existing Lot                                                            P       P       P
D. Residential Uses:
   1. In the TC and CMU Mixed Use Zones, residential uses are limited as follows.
        a. Units above a business: Residential dwelling units on the second story or above are
            permitted.
        b. Units behind a business: Residential dwelling units on the first story that are separated from
            the front lot line by a non-residential use in the same story are permitted.
        c. Units attached to a business on a multiple frontage lot: in no case may first-story dwelling
            units face onto a front lot line.
   12. In the NMU Zone, any new development shall include a mix of residential and non-residential
        uses. These uses may be mixed horizontally or vertically.
E. Dwelling Units (Existing): Single-family Units, Dwelling Groups, and Mobile Homes legally built before
   the adoption date of this ordinance may remain as permitted uses in the Mixed Use Zones without
   being considered nonconforming.
F. Light Industry, Mechanical Repair (Existing): Light Industry and Mechanical Repair uses, including Auto
   Repair uses, legally built before the adoption date of this ordinance may remain as a permitted uses
   in the TC and CMU Zones without being considered nonconforming.




   [Kearns Mixed-Use Chapter text amendment / OAM2023-000974 / September 18, 2023] | Page 5 of 5
