                                    Planning and Development Services
                                    2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                    Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                    https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/




                          Kearns Planning Commission
                                      Public Meeting Agenda
                                         **AMENDED**
                       Monday, May 6, 2024 5:30 P.M.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
https://slco.webex.com/meet/wgurr
Join meeting in WebEx (download available at https://www.webex.com/downloads.html for Windows,
Android, and Apple devices)
Tap to join from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065,,961841420## United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783,,961841420## United States Toll (Phoenix)
Join by phone
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com

Anchor Location        KEARNS ATHLETIC TRAINING AND EVENT CENTER
                       5658 SOUTH COUGAR LANE
                       MEETING ROOM
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                      BUSINESS MEETING

   1) Welcome and approval of the agenda. (Motion/Voting)
   2) Commissioner Discussion and Staff Assignments: this standing agenda item allows
      Planning Commissioners the opportunity to raise and discuss important issues related to
      current and long range planning in Kearns. The Commission may direct assignments to
      planning staff related to discussion items. (Discussion and Staff Direction: Planning Staff)
May 6, 2024                                   Page 1 of 2                                AGENDA – KEARNS
   3) Approval of the March 4, 2024 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
   4) Presentation Regarding the Implementation of Moderate Income Housing Strategy
      E: Staff will present the findings of the Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) Survey that was
      live during summer and fall of 2023. Staff will also discuss Utah moderate income housing
      planning and implementation requirements, literature related to accessory dwelling unit
      regulation, and relevant case studies. Following the presentation, staff will answer any
      questions, and the Commission may discuss any additional thoughts they have related to
      Strategy E of the Moderate Income Housing Plan. Planner: Kayla Mauldin (Discussion)
   5) Other Business Items. (As Needed)

                                     PUBLIC HEARING(S)

OAM2024-001140 - Miscellaneous Amendments to Titles 18 and 19 of Kearns Code: Staff are
bringing forth several proposed amendments for Planning Commission consideration. These
proposed revisions are intended to clarify language, remove language inconsistencies, and address
any other conflicts that have arisen during the application of the ordinance. Staff will give a brief
presentation to the Commission prior to opening the public hearing. Following the public hearing,
the Commission may make a recommendation to the Council regarding the changes. Planner:
Kayla Mauldin (Motion/Voting)

OAM2024-001135 – Proposed amendments to Section 19.28.060 “Lot Coverage” in single family
residential zones, Section 19.48.030 “Specifications” and Section 19.48.040 “Standards for
Parking in R-1 and R-2 Residential Zones” to consider modifications to the maximum amount of
impervious surface allowed in front yards and to clarify the standards for parking motor vehicles
and recreational vehicles in residential areas of Kearns. Planner: Curtis Woodward
(Motion/Voting)

                                            ADJOURN




May 6, 2024                                  Page 2 of 2                           AGENDA – KEARNS
              Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



May 6, 2024                                           Page 1 of 1                                   AGENDA – KEARNS
This page intentionally left blank
                                                     Planning and Development Services
                                                     2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                     Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




  **Notice of this meeting posted February 22, 2024 to https://www.utah.gov/pmn/sitemap/notice/895087.html **

                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                KEARNS PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                    Monday, March 4, 2024 5:30 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 8 minutes                             *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 3                                        found on the State and County websites, or from Planning
                                                                         & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Taylor

                                                 ATTENDANCE

                               Public     Business                                                            Public      Business
        Commissioners                                   Absent                Planning Staff / DA
                                Mtg         Mtg                                                                Mtg          Mtg
      David Taylor (Chair)       x           x
           Joy Nelson            x           x                                   Wendy Gurr                      x             x
                                                                                Gordon Bennett                   x             x
            Joe Hatch            x           x
         Laura Koester                                    x                    Curtis Woodward                   x             x
    Gray Thomas (Vice Chair)     x           x                                  Bianca Paulino                   x             x
                                                                                Nathan Bracken                   x             x



                                                 BUSINESS MEETING

                                             Meeting began at – 5:31 p.m.
   1) Welcome and Approval of the Agenda. (Motion/Voting)

        Commissioner Hatch motioned to approve the agenda, Commissioner Nelson seconded that motion.

        Commissioner Taylor read the Chairs Opening Statement.

   2) Commissioner Discussion and Staff Assignments: this standing agenda item allows Planning
      Commissioners the opportunity to raise and discuss important issues related to current and long
      range planning in Kearns Metro Township. The Commission may direct assignments to planning
      staff related to discussion items. (Discussion and Staff Direction: Planning Staff)

        Mr. Bracken and commissioners had a brief discussion regarding a code enforcement issue
        regarding a potential rule change subdivision south of the oval, quite a few driveways that exceed
        the requirements. Looking with code enforcement there are several residents that don’t meet the
        requirements are storm water permitting requirements with the county. Can increase the width of
        the driveways without meeting stormwater requirements. Potential ordinance change.



Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – March 4, 2024 – Meeting Summary                                            Page 1 of 3
                                      LAND USE APPLICATION(S)

                                         Hearing began at – 5:40 p.m.
CUP2024-001077 - James Woodruff is requesting conditional use approval to build a 50’ communications
pole for the Kearns Improvement District which will transmit data from water meters throughout Kearns.
Acres: 0.03. Location: 6040 South Impressions Drive. Zone: R-1-8. Planner: Gordon Bennett
(Motion/Voting)

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Gordon Bennett provided an analysis of the Staff
Report.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: District Engineer Kearns Improvement District
Name: James Woodruff
Address: 5450 West 5400 South
Comments: Mr. Woodruff said he is installing five poles in the district. This is one of their wells and to
collect meter data from residents. It will record all the new meters and read by the pole and directed to the
cloud, then to the district and residents. Will identify leaks and high flows with a quicker response time. Is
on the west side toward the park and locate and have less of an impact.

Commissioners, Mr. Woodruff, and counsel had a brief discussion regarding the plastic meter added to the
meter, setting time to be read on a regular basis, freestanding painted pole, and no wires.

Commissioner Hatch recused himself, as his wife is on the board.

Commissioner Thomas motioned to open the public Meeting, Commissioner Nelson seconded that motion.

No one from the public was present to speak.

Commissioner Thomas motioned to close the public Meeting, Commissioner Hatch seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To approve application #CUP2024-001077 James Woodruff requesting conditional use approval
to build a 50’ communications pole for the Kearns Improvement District which will transmit data from
water meters throughout Kearns as presented.
        Motion by: Commissioner Thomas
        2nd by: Commissioner Nelson
        Vote: Commissioner Hatch recused himself, all other commissioners voted in favor (of
        commissioners present). Motion passed.


Curtis Woodward said all the other poles will not come before the commission, because they are a permitted
use and not in a residential area. Mr. Woodward will forward the other addresses to the commission.

                                       BUSINESS MEETING (Cont.)

   3) Approval of the February 5, 2024 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
      Motion: To approve the February 5, 2024 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes as written.

Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – March 4, 2024 – Meeting Summary                       Page 2 of 3
               Motion by: Commissioner Hatch
               2nd by: Commissioner Nelson
               Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

   4) Presentation of Town Center Survey Results and Draft Vision: Planning staff will present the
      results of the 2023 Kearns Town Center Survey. They will also share the draft vision statement,
      values, and goals that were crafted based on responses and stakeholder feedback. Planner: Bianca
      Paulino (Presentation / Discussion)

       Ms. Paulino provided a presentation of the Town Center Survey Results and the Draft Vision.

       Commissioners, staff, and counsel had a brief discussion regarding the vision statement with
       accessibility key to joining vibrant town center, walkability and cycling, all abilities inclusivity.
       Goals on transportation and 5400 south. Arts and culture within the town center and encouraged
       initiatives, grants for initiatives and procuring funding and use. Commercial property owners
       participation and maintenance responsibility, discussion regarding the elementary school and use
       of the property.

       Commissioner Thomas motioned to open public comment, Commissioner Nelson seconded that
       motion.


       Speaker # 1: Citizen
       Name: Roger Snow
       Address: 5977 South Parkwood Drive
       Comments: Mr. Snow said there needs to be emphasis on economic viability. Now becoming a city
       opportunity to bring in businesses. More opportunities to bring in developers, shops, and residential
       and keep local businesses, not just whitewashing.

       Commissioners and staff had a discussion regarding the Millcreek Town Center with the resources
       and any plans to chat with their mayor and how to rev up development. Spoke to Midvale as their
       main street had mixed use and will talk to different cities to attract development. Town Center
       website is up now and making sure none of the businesses are ran out. Updating the general plan
       and may want to prohibit different uses, redevelopment agency using tax increment financing to
       incentivize businesses and making the most of what they have.

   5) Other Business Items (as needed)

       No other business items to discuss.

Commissioner Thomas motioned to close the public comment and adjourn, Commissioner Hatch seconded
that motion.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 6:39 p.m.




Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission – March 4, 2024 – Meeting Summary                     Page 3 of 3
Meeting Body: City of Kearns
Planning Commission

Meeting Date: May 6, 2024

Planner: Kayla Mauldin, Senior                                 SUMMARY
Long Range Planner
                                     On May 6th, 2024, planning staff will present miscellaneous
Project Name and File Number:
                                     amendments to Titles 18 and 19 to the Planning
Miscellaneous Amendments to
Titles 18 and 19 (OAM2024-           Commission for consideration. Following the scheduled
00140)                               public hearing, the Planning Commission may make a
                                     recommendation to the Council regarding the drafted
Project Type:
                                     amendments. Kearns adopted comprehensive revisions to
       Amend Text Ordinance
                                     Titles 18 and 19 in 2023. The minor amendments now
Areas Affected: Entirety of the      being proposed by staff are part of an ongoing effort to
City of Kearns                       keep Kearns Municipal Code user-friendly, responsive to
Key Findings:                        community needs, and compliant with Utah State Code.
   •     The transition of Kearns    The following amendments are being proposed:
         from a Metro Township to
         a City necessitates minor   1.       All instances of “Kearns Metro Township” within
         amendments             to   Titles 18 and 19 are replaced with “the City of Kearns”.
         ordinance language.         2.       The definition of “Bed and Breakfast” is updated in
   •     Additional amendments       Sections 19.04.070 and 19.42.090 for consistency
         seek      to      improve
                                     purposes.
         ordinance clarity and
                                     3.       New language is added to the specific use
         reduce contradictions.
                                     standards for Storage and Salvage Yards (19.42.330) to
Staff         Recommendation:
                                     require surfaces of storage and salvage yards to be
Planning staff recommends that
                                     covered with an all-weather surface.
the Planning Commission make a
recommendation of adoption of        4.       Setback standards specific to Mixed Use Planned
Title 18 and 19 amendments to        Unit Developments (PUDs) are removed so that the PUD is
the Council, with or without         subject to general perimeter setbacks and the right-of-
revisions.                           way setbacks specified in the underlying zoning district.
                                                            ATTACHMENTS
                                     The following attachments are included as supplementary
                                     materials to the end of this staff report:
                                     1.       Proposed Amendments to City of Kearns Title 18.
                                     2.       Proposed Amendments to City of Kearns Title 19.
                                     *The attachments only show portions of Titles 18 and 19 that are
                                     proposed for amendment. The remaining portions of Titles 18 and
                                     19 will not be effected.

   Miscellaneous Amendments to Kearns Titles 18 and 19 / OAM2024-00140 / May 2024 | Page 1 of 6
                                           BACKGROUND

Purpose of Proposed Amendments:

When comprehensive revisions to Kearns Titles 18 and 19, Subdivision and Zoning Ordinances,
were adopted in 2023, the intent was to:

   1.    Ensure compliance with State Code and recent legislation;
   2.    Encourage conformity with the adopted General Plan;
   3.    Promote ease of use for staff and residents; and
   4.    Preserve community character.

It is imperative that Kearns continues to periodically update its Municipal Code so that it continues
to meet the above-stated objectives. The miscellaneous amendments proposed to Titles 18 and
19 were identified by staff during the application of Kearns ordinances. These proposed
amendments are minor in nature but contribute to the responsiveness and usability of Kearns
Municipal Code.

Amendment Timeline:

Kearns officially became a City on May 1st. This necessitated revision to ordinance language
referring to “Metro Township”. Needed additional amendments had been identified and recorded
by staff during the past several months. These amendments are being introduced for the first time
at the Planning Commission meeting on May 6th, 2024. Planning staff’s presentation of the
proposed amendments will be followed by a public hearing. After the public hearing, the Planning
Commission may make a recommendation to the Council regarding the ordinance amendments.
The Council is not expected to consider the proposed amendments until their June 2024 meeting.

Methodology:

The proposed amendments to Titles 18 and 19 are minor in nature, and address “Metro Township”
language or issues that staff discovered while applying the Subdivision and Zoning Ordinances.
The full amendment language is available in Attachments 1 and 2, and additional detail is provided
in Table 1 of this report.

State Code Requirements:

State Code Section 10-9a-501:503 outlines the process for amending municipal land use
ordinances. The Planning Commission is responsible for holding a public hearing to consider any
proposed land use ordinance or amendment. The hearing must be noticed consistent with State
Code §10-9a-205. Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission may make a
recommendation to the Council regarding the adoption of the drafted ordinance amendments.
Only the Council (as the legislative body) can make a final decision on the ordinances.




        Miscellaneous Amendments to Kearns Titles 18 and 19 / OAM2024-00140 / May 2024 | Page 2 of 6
Decision-Making Authority:

The Kearns Council, as the municipality’s legislative body, has the final authority to make a
decision regarding the proposed ordinance amendments. However, the Council must first receive
a recommendation from the Planning Commission. Following the May 6th public hearing, the
Commission may make a motion to:

   •    Recommend adoption of miscellaneous amendments to Titles 18 and 19 as drafted;
   •    Recommend adoption of miscellaneous amendments to Titles 18 and 19 with revisions;
        or
   •     Recommend that the miscellaneous amendments to Titles 18 and 19 not be adopted.



                                     ORDINANCE CONTENT

Proposed Amendments:

Four amendments are proposed in order to improve the clarity, effectiveness, and responsiveness
of Kearns’ Subdivision and Zoning Ordinances. Proposed amendments include:
   1. Changing all instances of “Kearns Metro Township” to the “City of Kearns”;
   2. Clarifying the definition of “Bed and Breakfast”;
   3. Adding standards for all-weather surfacing materials and stormwater capture to “Storage
      and Salvage Yards”; and
   4. Eliminating separate setback standards for Mixed Use Planned Unit Developments.
The full amended language can be read in Attachment 1 (Title 18 – Subdivision Ordinance) and
Attachment 2 (Title 19 – Zoning Ordinance). Each of the proposed amendments is described in
further detail in Table 1 (on the next page).




       Miscellaneous Amendments to Kearns Titles 18 and 19 / OAM2024-00140 / May 2024 | Page 3 of 6
        Table 1: Staff Recommended Miscellaneous Amendments to Titles 18 and 19.

Section               Identified Deficiency                Proposed Solution
Titles 18 and 19:     Ordinances include a handful of      Change all instances of “Kearns
Subdivision and       references to “Metro Township”, a    Metro Township” to “City of
Zoning Ordinances,    form of government which no          Kearns”.
Entirety              longer exists in Utah.
Sections 19.04.070    Staff identified a contradiction     Change the definition of Bed and
and 19.42.090: Bed    between the definition of “Bed       Breakfasts to include up to 15
and Breakfasts        and Breakfasts” in Chapter 19.04     guestrooms (19.04.070). Update
                      and the specific use standards for   the specific use standards to
                      Bed and Breakfasts in Chapter        indicate the same. Lodging that
                      19.42. The definition allowed Bed    does not fit the definition of Bed
                      and Breakfasts to have 2 or more     and Breakfast, including lodging
                      guestrooms, while the specific       with more than 15 guestrooms,
                      use standards required a Bed and     would fall under the definition of
                      Breakfast to have between 5 and      “Hotel” and be subject to a
                      15 guestrooms.                       different set of standards. Staff
                                                           elected to preserve the more
                                                           restrictive limit on guestrooms
                                                           (up to 15) as had been articulated
                                                           in the specific use standards).
Section 19.42.330:    A standard related to surfacing      Copy the language related to all-
Storage and Salvage   and stormwater capture for           weather surfaces and stormwater
Yards                 storage and salvage yards was        capture from 19.42.340 and add it
                      located in Section 19.42.340, but    to standards for 19.42.330. This
                      not carried over to 19.42.330        change improves clarity for staff
                      which directly addresses storage     and applicants.
                      and salvage yards.
Section 19.18.040:    Setback provisions in 19.18.040      Eliminate the separate setback
Planned Unit          contradicted the standards of        standards in 19.18.040. All PUDs
Development Mixed     19.18.030 and dictated a uniform     would instead be subject to the
Use                   setback regardless of the context    15’ perimeter setback and the
                      of the underlying zoning district.   right-of-way setback specified in
                                                           the underlying zoning district.




   Miscellaneous Amendments to Kearns Titles 18 and 19 / OAM2024-00140 / May 2024 | Page 4 of 6
                                          STAFF ANALYSIS

Compatibility with Existing Plans and Ordinances:

The proposed amendments are minor in nature and do not have a strong tie to the adopted
General Plan. The amendment to the Mixed Use Planned Unit Development standards allows for
the underlying zoning district to determine the project’s setbacks. This is important for
maintaining context-sensitive development. Kearns zoning districts were developed based on the
character areas (future land uses) determined in the General Plan.

Consistency with State Code Requirements:

The proposed amendments maintain conformity with State Code; no provisions of State Code
directly address the proposed amendments.

Anticipated Impacts:

The proposed amendments are intended to improve clarity and responsiveness of the Subdivision
and Zoning Ordinances. Table 2 details the expected impact of each amendment.

    Table 2: Anticipated Impacts of Proposed Miscellaneous Amendments to Titles 18 and 19.

 Proposed Amendment                            Anticipated Impact
 Titles 18 and 19: Subdivision and Zoning      NA. Amendments reflect the new name of the City of
 Ordinances, Entirety – elimination of         Kearns.
 “Metro Township” language.
 Sections 19.04.070 and 19.42.090: Bed         NA. Bed and breakfasts are allowed to have up to
 and Breakfasts – definition clarifications.   fifteen (15) guest rooms in existing code. This
                                               amendment removes the requirement for the
                                               minimum number of guest rooms and reduces
                                               contradictions between the two sections addressing
                                               Bed and Breakfasts. There are no Bed and Breakfasts
                                               currently advertised in Kearns.
 Section 19.42.330: Storage and Salvage        Staff currently require Storage and Salvage Yards to
 Yards – addition of standards for all-        provide all-weather surfacing and to contain
 weather surfacing and stormwater              stormwater and runoff. The anticipated impact of
 capture.                                      adding this language into Section 19.42.330, instead
                                               of just referring to 19.42.340, is to improve clarity for
                                               future applicants.
 Section 19.18.040: Planned Unit               This amendment eliminates contradictions related to
 Development Mixed Use – elimination           setbacks within the Planned Unit Development
 of conflicting setback standards.             Chapter. The proposed changes would require Mixed
                                               Use Planned Unit Developments to conform with the
                                               right-of-way setback inherent in the underlying zone.
                                               The anticipated outcome is more context-sensitive
                                               development.

     Miscellaneous Amendments to Kearns Titles 18 and 19 / OAM2024-00140 / May 2024 | Page 5 of 6
                                    STAFF RECOMMENDATION

MSD Planning Staff has thoroughly reviewed the drafted amendments to Titles 18 and 19 of
Kearns Municipal Code. Based on their review and analysis, staff finds that the proposed
amendments:

   1.    Reflect the change of Kearns from a Metro Township to a City;
   2.    Minimize contradictions and inconsistencies between sections of code;
   3.    Improve clarity for applicants and planning staff; and
   4.    Enhance the code’s responsiveness to the unique conditions of the City of Kearns.

Given the above findings, staff recommends the following action:

 Forward a recommendation of adoption of Title 18 and 19 amendments, as drafted in
 Attachments 1 and 2, to the Kearns Council. The recommendation may include
 revisions as deemed necessary following the public hearing.



                                            NEXT STEPS

Following the public hearing and a recommendation by the Planning Commission, the Council
may adopt, adopt with revisions, or not adopt the proposed amendments to Titles 18 and 19. The
Kearns Council is expected to hear these items at its June meeting, contingent on a
recommendation from the Planning Commission. These items represent text amendments ONLY,
and do not include any revision to Kearns’ official zoning maps.




        Miscellaneous Amendments to Kearns Titles 18 and 19 / OAM2024-00140 / May 2024 | Page 6 of 6
                                           Attachment 2

Title 18 Miscellaneous Changes
The following amendments to Kearns Municipal Code Title 18 are proposed. Standards in Title 18 that
are not presented in this document will not be effected by the proposed amendments.

18.04.040 Development Agreements

A. The developer/property owner and the municipality may choose to enter into a development
   agreement that outlines the duties, responsibilities, obligations, commitments and promises of the
   developer/property owner and the commitments of the municipality.
B. A development agreement does not exempt a developer/property owner from complying with this
   Title or any part of the Development Code unless such an exemption is clearly contained within the
   executed development agreement and the Council has approved the development agreement after
   the planning commission has held a public hearing and provided a recommendation.
C. If a development agreement restricts an applicant ‘s rights under clearly established state law, the
   municipality shall disclose in writing to the applicant the rights of the applicant the development
   agreement restricts.
    1. It is the policy of Kearns Metro Townshipthe City of Kearns that if the municipality fails to
       disclose a restricted right in accordance with State Code, the entirety of the development
       agreement shall be considered null and void. The developer and municipality may choose to
       enter into a new agreement.
D. The development agreement shall be recorded by the municipality in the Salt Lake County
   Recorder’s Office. Recordation by the municipality may only take place after all of the necessary
   signatures are obtained, all approvals given, and all bonds and fees posted. The development
   agreement must be recorded prior to the recording of the final plat. The Kearns MetroCity of Kearns
   Council may approve a development agreement as a legislative action. Consideration of a
   development agreement is separate from any consideration of a preliminary or final subdivision
   application or plat.
E. Any development agreement entered into by a developer/property owner and Kearns Metro
   Townshipthe City of Kearns shall comply with the provisions identified in Utah Code §10-9a-532.




                                                            OAM2024-00140 Attachment 1 | Page 1 of 5
18.10.040 Final Plat Required Information

The final plat shall be prepared by a professional land surveyor licensed in Utah on a sheet of approved
reproducible Mylar and made with approved waterproof black ink. The plat shall be oriented so that the
top of the sheet is either north or east, whichever accommodates the drawing best. All text shall be a
minimum of one-tenth inch in size. The plat shall contain all information required on the preliminary plat
with the exception of contours and construction information, utilities (except existing and proposed fire
hydrants), structures and fences (unless called monuments).
A. Description and Delineation. The final plat shall show:
    1. The approved name of the subdivision;
    2. North arrow and graphic scale. The minimum scale is 1 “=100 ‘;
    3. A legend defining all lines and symbols used on the plat;
    4. Lot addresses, and approved street names and numbers;
    5. The plat drawing shall agree with the boundary description;
    6. Accurate angular and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles and curves used to describe
       boundaries, streets, alleys, easements, areas to be reserved for public use and other important
       features. Boundaries, lots and streets shown as solid lines, with outside subdivision boundary
       lines indicated as a heavier, more substantial line than lot, street and easement lines. Easements
       shown as dashed lines;
    7. The lengths of lot lines and boundary lines shown as decimals of a foot with a precision of 0.00 ‘;
       Bearings and angles will be shown as Deg/Min/Sec with a precision of 0°00 ‘00 “. Additional
       precision may be necessary to meet closure requirements;
    8. Bearings and distance to provide a mathematical closure of 0.01 ‘ on exterior subdivision
       boundary and 0.02 ‘ or less, on all lots and centerline of streets;
    9. Basis of bearing between two or more public land survey monuments or between identified
       monuments in a recorded subdivision or street dedication plat;
    10. Survey ties to public land survey monuments, and where applicable, to identified monuments in
        a recorded subdivision or street dedication plat, showing measured and record, if different;
    11. The accurate location of all survey monuments and fire hydrants to be installed shown by the
        appropriate symbol. All United States, state, county or other official benchmarks, survey
        monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property, shall be preserved in precise
        position and in compliance with Utah Code, §17-23-14 and Salt Lake County Ordinance, Chapter
        14.17;
    12. The clearly labeled point of beginning;
    13. The sum of the lot distances along the exterior of the plat shall equal the subdivision boundary
        distance;
    14. Existing and proposed streets within two-hundred feet (200 ‘) of the proposed subdivision
        boundary. Dimension street width and identified street ownership;


                                                             OAM2024-00140 Attachment 1 | Page 2 of 5
   15. Recording information of adjoining subdivisions. Ownership with parcel identification
       numbers of adjoining lots and parcels;
   16. The dimensioned relationship between existing and proposed utility easements with proposed
       lot lines. Include recording reference(s) of existing easements and provide a utility approval line
       for proposed easements;
   17. All curve data, including radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings and
       length of all arcs, identified at correct location or in a curve table;
   18. Centerline control on existing streets, matching the County ‘s record data. New street
       monuments will be installed per the Salt Lake County Surveyor ‘s monument permitting process
       as specified in Salt Lake County Ordinance, Chapter 14-17;
   19. The dedication to the municipality of all streets and highways included in the proposed
       subdivision. Where it is proposed that streets be constructed on property controlled by a public
       agent or utility company, approval for the location, improvement and maintenance of such
       streets shall be obtained from the public agency or utility company and entered on the final plat
       in a form approved by the municipal attorney;
   20. Subdivision monuments shall be installed prior to the improvement bond release by the
       subdivider ‘s engineer or land surveyor at such points designated on the final plat as approved
       by Planning and Development Services. Standard precast monuments, rings and lids shall be
       installed through the Salt Lake County Surveyor monument permitting process (Salt Lake County
       Ordinance, Chapter 14.17);
   21. Physical markers shall be placed at each outside boundary corner, in accordance with state
       statutes and industry standards; and verified to be in their correct location(s) according to the
       plat;
   22. Physical markers shall be placed at each lot corner in accordance with state statutes and
       industry standards; and
   23. Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be dedicated or reserved for public use,
       with the purposes indicated thereon, and of any area to be reserved by deed or covenant for
       common uses of all property owners.
B. Boundary Description. The boundary description shall include:
   1. A caption with reference to current vesting deed(s), location by Quarter Section, Township &
      Range, Base & Meridian, and if applicable, existing lot(s) and subdivision(s);
   2. A survey tie to an existing Public Land Survey monument, or a recognized street or
   3. Subdivision monument;
   4. All necessary bearings, distances and curve data to complete the description and provide a
      mathematical closure of 0.01 ‘ (one hundredth) of a foot or less;
   5. Narrative (bound) calls to and along adjoining subdivisions, parcels, streets, and rights of way as
      necessary to define the intent of the description;



                                                            OAM2024-00140 Attachment 1 | Page 3 of 5
   6. Recording reference to any additional easements required for property access where applicable;
      and
   7. Total development area in square feet (0.00) and acres (0.000).
C. Standard Forms for the Following. Kearns Metro TownshipThe City of Kearns may adopt a template
   establishing the expected format of the final plat, which shall at a minimum require:
   1. A Professional Land Surveyor ‘s certificate of survey;
   2. The owner ‘s certificate of dedication;
   3. A notary public ‘s acknowledgement;
   4. The land use authority ‘s certificate of approval;
   5. The health department ‘s certificate of approval;
   6. Planning and Development Service ‘s certificate of approval;
   7. The municipal attorney ‘s certificate of approval;
   8. The municipal mayor ‘s certificate of approval, witnessed by the municipal clerk / recorder;
   9. The County Surveyor ‘s record of survey acknowledgment block; and
   10. A one and one-half by five-inch (1.5” x 5”) space in the lower right-hand corner of the drawing
       for the Salt Lake County Recorder ‘s use.




                                                           OAM2024-00140 Attachment 1 | Page 4 of 5
18.18.050 Petition To Vacate A Public Street

A. In lieu of vacating some or all of a public street through a plat or amended plat in accordance with
   Utah Code, a legislative body may approve a petition to vacate a public street in accordance with
   this Section.
B. Application. A petition to vacate some or all of a public street or municipal utility easement shall
   include:
    1. The name and address of each owner of record of land that is:
        a. Adjacent to the public street or municipal utility easement between the two nearest public
           street intersections; or
        b. Accessed exclusively by or within three hundred feet (300 ‘) of the public street or municipal
           utility easement.
    2. Proof of written notice to operators of utilities and culinary water or sanitary sewer facilities
       located within the bounds of the public street or municipal utility easement sought to be
       vacated; and
    3. The signature of each owner due notice who consents to the vacation.
C. Notice. If a petition is submitted containing a request to vacate some or all of a public street or
   municipal utility easement, the Kearns Council shall hold a public hearing, giving notice of the date,
   place, and time of the hearing as follows:
    1. At least ten (10) days before the public hearing, the legislative body shall ensure that notice is:
        a. Mailed to the record owner of each parcel that is accessed by the public street or municipal
           utility easement;
        b. Mailed to each affected entity;
        c. Posted on or near the public street or municipal utility easement in a manner that is
           calculated to alert the public; and
        d. Publish notice on the Kearns Metro TownshipCity of Kearns website and the Utah Public
           Notice Website until the public hearing concludes.




                                                              OAM2024-00140 Attachment 1 | Page 5 of 5
                                             Attachment 2

Title 19 Miscellaneous Amendments
The following amendments to Kearns Municipal Code Title 19 are proposed. Standards in Title 19 that are
not presented in this document will not be effected by the proposed amendments.

19.04.050 Landscaping Definitions
A. Landscaping terminology used in Title 19 is defined as follows:
    1. “Active Recreation Area” means an area that is dedicated to active play where turf grass may be
       used as the playing surface. Examples of active recreation areas include sports fields, play areas,
       and other similar uses.
    2. “Bubbler” means an irrigation head that delivers water to the root zone by “flooding” the planted
       area, usually measured in gallons per minute. Bubblers exhibit a trickle, umbrella or short stream
       pattern.
    3. “Check Valve” means a device used in sprinkler heads or pipe to prevent water from draining out
       of the pipe through gravity flow.
    4. “Controller” means a device used in irrigation systems to automatically control when and how
       long sprinklers or drip systems operate.
    5. “Drip Emitter” means drip irrigation fittings that deliver water slowly at the root zone of the plant,
       usually measured in gallons per hour.
    6. “Grading Plan” means a plan that shows all finish grades, spot elevations, drainage as necessary
       and existing and new contours with the developed landscaped area.
    7. “Ground Cover” means material planted in such a way as to form a continuous cover over the
       ground that can be maintained at a height not more than twelve inches (12”).
    8. “Hardscape” means patios, decks and paths. Does not include driveways and sidewalks.
    9. “Irrigation Plan” means a plan showing the components of the irrigation system with water meter
       size, backflow prevention, precipitation rates, flow rate and operating pressure for each irrigation
       circuit, and identification of all irrigation equipment.
    10. “Landscape Architect” means a person who holds a professional license to practice landscape
        architecture in the State of Utah. Per Utah Code, licensed landscape architects, licensed
        architects, licensed land surveyors, and licensed engineers can professionally stamp plans that fall
        under the practice of landscape architecture. This includes commercial landscape and irrigation
        plans. Kearns Metro TownshipThe City of Kearns has the authority to require that only a licensed
        landscape architect can stamp plans that fall under the practice of landscape architecture.




                                                             OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 1 of 11
19.04.070 Use Definitions
A. Uses identified in Title 19 are defined as follows:
    1. “Accessory Equipment” means the portion of the system including equipment sites, transformers,
       switchgear, pedestals, terminals, meters, buildings (substations), and other similar equipment
       that is normally installed aboveground in accordance with accepted practices of underground
       systems.
    2. “Accessory Structure” means a detached subordinate building or structure the appropriate use of
       which is subordinate and customarily incidental to the primary building or to the main use of the
       land and which is located on the same lot or parcel of land with the primary building or use.
       Accessory structures include detached garages or carports, garden or storage sheds, and
       children's playhouses, but do not involve the conduct of a business.
    3. “Accessory Dwelling Unit, Attached” means a habitable living unit attached to a primary single-
       family dwelling and contained on one lot for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of thirty
       (30) consecutive days or longer. An “Accessory Dwelling Unit, Attached” may include an addition
       to the footprint of the primary dwelling.
    4. “Accessory Dwelling Unit, Detached” means a habitable living unit detached from a primary
       single-family dwelling and contained on one lot for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of
       thirty (30) consecutive days or longer.
    5. “Accessory Dwelling Unit, Internal” means an accessory dwelling unit created:
        a. Within a primary dwelling;
        b. Within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory dwelling unit
           (IADU) was created; and
        c. For the purpose of offering a long-term rental of thirty (30) consecutive days or longer.
    6. “Accessory Outside Storage” means the accessory location of any goods, wares, merchandise,
       commodities, or any other item outside of a completely enclosed building for a continuous period
       longer than twenty-four (24) hours. The area used for outdoor storage shall not constitute more
       than fifteen percent (15%) of the lot area. With the exception of retail sales displays in an
       approved commercial area, outdoor storage shall be screened from public view by a minimum
       six-foot (6') high opaque fence or, when outdoor storage occurs in a front yard, side yard, or any
       other location within the public view, a fence or screening of a height and material determined
       by the Planning Commission. The presence of hazardous materials, junk, junk cars, or debris not
       usually appurtenant to permitted on-site uses is prohibited. “Outdoor storage” as defined herein
       does not include construction yards, storage yards, or other storage uses where the storage of
       items outside of an enclosed building is a primary characteristic of the use. See “Storage Yard.”
    7. “Accessory Use” means a use clearly incidental and subordinate to the existing primary use and
       customarily related to the primary use and located on the same lot or in the same building as the
       primary use.
    8. “Agricultural Building” means a structure that is primarily associated with and supports
       agricultural use or activity but shall not be used for human occupancy and complying with the
       requirements of Utah Code. To qualify as an agricultural building the structure shall meet all

                                                           OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 2 of 11
    requirements of Utah Code, and be clearly associated with and necessary to support an
    agricultural use or activity.
9. “Agricultural Products Processing” means the processing of non-animal agricultural products
   including but not limited to the processing, cleaning, sorting, grading, packaging, or milling of
   products intended for human or animal consumption or use.
10. “Agricultural Sales” means the retail or wholesale sale of agricultural or horticultural products
    grown or raised on site and not produced or purchased from another location for resale. This use
    does not include the commercial slaughtering, processing, packaging, or sale of meat, poultry and
    dairy, concentrated animal feeding operation, or similar uses.
11. “Agriculture” means the tilling of the soil, the raising and harvesting of crops, horticulture and
    gardening, but not including the keeping or raising of domestic animals or fowl, except household
    pets, and not including any agricultural industry or business such as fruit-packing plants, fur farms,
    animal hospitals or similar uses.
12. “Agritourism” means a commercial enterprise linking agricultural production and/or processing
    with tourism in order to attract visitors onto a farm, ranch, or other agricultural business for the
    purposes of entertaining and/or educating the visitors and generating income for the farm, ranch,
    or business owner. This excludes guest ranches and other forms of overnight accommodation.
13. “Airport/Heliport” means an area used for the landing and takeoff of both fixed-wing aircraft and
    helicopters and buildings, structures, or other facilities associated with these activities, including
    taxiways, aircraft storage and tie-down areas, hangars, servicing, and passenger and freight
    terminals and used by commercial, private, or military aircraft.
14. “Animal Control or Rescue Facility” means a location, with buildings, structures, and holding
    facilities necessary to provide temporary housing and food for animals (primarily pets or
    companion animals) from abusive homes or homeless situations, rehabilitation (if the animal has
    health or behavior problems), or for treatment if the animal requires veterinary care. This may
    include publicly licensed facilities to detain and/or dispose of stray dogs, cats, and other animals.
15. “Animal Feeding Operation” means a facility that confines, feeds, and maintains domestic
    livestock in either an open or enclosed lot or space for a total of forty-five (45) days or more in
    any twelve (12) month period. The area(s) where the livestock are confined does not sustain
    crops, vegetation, forage growth, or post-harvest residues in the normal growing season. An AFO
    may also be a Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation (“CAFO” see CAFO). An AFO may be subject
    to the requirements of the Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (UPDES).
16. “Animal Hospital or Clinic” means facilities for the diagnosis, treatment and hospitalization of
    domesticated animals in indoor holding facilities but does not include any outdoor holding or
    boarding facilities.
17. “Animal Hospital or Clinic with Outdoor Holding Facilities” means facilities for the diagnosis,
    treatment, hospitalization, and boarding of animals (including large animals) that may include
    indoor and/or outdoor holding and boarding facilities.
18. “Apiary” means the assembly of one or more colonies of bees at a single location. For regulations
    regarding the keeping of bees, see Chapter 19.42 of this Title.

                                                         OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 3 of 11
19. “Assembly Use” means a business where finished parts are assembled to develop a final product.
    These uses include computer and electronic assembly, and similar uses, but do not include vehicle
    or manufacturing type uses.
20. “Assisted Living Facility” means either (i) a Type I Assisted Living Facility, which is a residential
    facility that supports activities of daily living and social care to two or more residents who require
    protected living arrangements and are sufficiently mobile to exit the facility without the assistance
    of another person; or (ii) a Type II Assisted Living Facility, which is a residential facility with a
    home-like setting that provides an array of coordinated supportive personal and health care
    services available twenty-four (24) hours per day to residents who have been assessed under Utah
    Department of Health and Human Services rules to need any of these services.
21. “Athletic Clubs” means an indoor establishment that provides for aerobic exercises, weightlifting,
    bodybuilding, running, exercise equipment, game courts, swimming facilities, saunas, spas,
    showers, and lockers. See “Recreation Facility, Commercial” and “Recreation Facility, Private”.
22. “Bank” means the same as “Financial Institution.”
23. “Bar” means a commercial establishment open to the general public which sells and serves
    intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, subject to the Utah Alcoholic Beverage
    Control Act.
24. “Bed and Breakfast” means dwellings a dwelling in which two (2) or more roomsup to fifteen (15)
    guest rooms are rented out by the day, offering overnight lodging to travelers, and where one or
    more meals are provided by the host family, the price of which is included in the room rate.
25. “Breweries and Distilleries in association with a Restaurant” means a business which conducts the
    retail sale of beer or liquor which is brewed or distilled on the premises in compliance with
    applicable state and federal laws. Such establishments may also include restaurants as an
    accessory use.
26. “Breweries and Distilleries, Industrial” means an industrial use that brews ales, beers, meads,
    and/or similar beverages on site. Industrial breweries and distilleries are engaged predominantly
    in manufacturing and do not include a bar or restaurant. Industrial breweries and distilleries may
    include incidental retail sales when permitted by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.
27. “Boardinghouse” means a building with not more than five guestrooms, where, for compensation,
    meals are provided for at least five but not more than fifteen persons.
28. “Campground” means a public area designated by a public agency for camping, or a private area
    licensed by the local governing body for camping. “Campground” also includes any lot or parcel
    of land upon which two or more sites are located, established or maintained for occupancy by
    recreational vehicles for a fee as temporary living quarters for recreation or vacation purposes.
    This may include accessory facilities such as kitchens, pavilions, playgrounds, or storage for
    recreation equipment.
29. “Camping” means the use of any tent, trailer, lean-to, teepee, recreational vehicle, or similar non-
    permanent structure or vehicle for temporary living quarters for residential, recreation,
    education, or vacation purposes.



                                                         OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 4 of 11
30. “Canopy” means a roofed structure supported by a building and/or supports extending to the
    ground directly underneath the canopy and providing a protective shield for service-station pump
    islands and walkways.
31. “Car and Light Truck Wash” means a facility with machine or hand-operated facilities used
    principally for the cleaning, washing, polishing, or waxing of automobiles and light trucks. A car
    and truck wash may be able to accommodate more than one vehicle at a time.
32. “Carport” means a private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the purpose of
    this Title, a carport shall be subject to all of the regulations prescribed for a private garage.
33. “Cemetery” means land used or dedicated to the burial of the dead, including crematoriums,
    mausoleums, necessary sales, and maintenance facilities.
34. “Check Cashing” means cashing a check for consideration or extending a deferred deposit loan
    and shall include any other similar types of businesses licensed by the State pursuant to the Check
    Cashing Registration Act. Check cashing does not include the activities of depository institutions
    or persons who cash a check in a transaction that is incidental to the retail sale of goods or services
    for consideration that does not exceed the greater of one percent of the amount of the check or
    three dollars.
35. “Child Care” means the provision, day or night, of supplemental parental care, instruction, and
    supervision for a non-related child or children, on a regular basis, and for less than twenty-four
    (24) hours a day. The term does not include babysitting services of a casual, non-recurring nature,
    or in the child’s own home or cooperative, or reciprocative childcare by a group of parents in their
    respective domiciles.
36. “Child Care Center” means a facility, operated by a person qualified and licensed by the State of
    Utah, which provides children with daycare and/or preschool instruction as a commercial business
    and complying with all applicable state standards and licensing and having regularly scheduled,
    ongoing enrollment for direct or indirect compensation that provides childcare for less than
    twenty-four (24) hours per day. “Commercial Daycare Facilities” excludes the following:
    a. Kindergartens or nursery schools or other daytime programs operated by public or private
       elementary or secondary schools or institutions of higher learning;
    b. Facilities operated in connection with a fitness center, shopping center, or other activity
       where children are cared for temporarily while parents or custodians of the children are
       occupied on the premises or are in the immediate vicinity and readily available; or
    c. Special activities or programs, including athletics, crafts instruction, and similar activities, are
       conducted on a periodic basis by civic, charitable, private, or governmental organizations.
37. “Child Care, Home” means the same as “Home Daycare” and includes the following:
    a. “Child Care, Licensed Family” means the provision of childcare for sixteen or fewer children,
       including the provider’s children who are under the age of thirteen, in the home where the
       caregiver resides, in the absence of a child’s parents, for four (4) or more hours but less than
       twenty-four (24) hours, on a regularly scheduled, ongoing basis. A “Child Care, Licensed
       Family” is subject to licensing by the Utah Department of Health and Human Services.


                                                          OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 5 of 11
    b. “Child Care, Residential” means the provision of childcare for eight or fewer children,
       including the provider’s children, who are under the age of thirteen, in the home where the
       caregiver resides, in the absence of a child’s parents, for less than twenty-four (24) hours, on
       a regularly scheduled, ongoing basis. A “Child Care, Residential” is subject to licensing by the
       Utah Department of Health and Human Services.
38. “Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Temple, Cathedral, or Other Religious Buildings” means a building,
    with accessory structures and uses, where persons regularly assemble for religious purposes and
    related social events and which building, with accessory structures and uses, is maintained and
    controlled by a religious body organized to sustain religious ceremonies and purposes.
39. “Club” means a building used, occupied, and operated by an organized association of persons for
    social, fraternal, religious, or patriotic purposes, whose activities are confined to the members
    and their guests, but shall not include any organization, group, or association, of which the
    principal activity is to render a service usually and ordinarily carried on as a business. A club may
    also be a bar, subject to the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
40. “Commercial Plant Nursery” means a business where young plants or trees are raised for
    experimental horticultural purposes, for transplanting, or for sale.
41. “Commercial Recreation” means recreational facilities operated as a business and open to the
    general public for a fee, such as golf driving ranges and baseball batting ranges.
42. “Community Garden” means the production of a harvestable product, planted, grown, and
    cultivated in the soil by an identifiable group of community members. Includes products grown
    and managed by a community or neighborhood organization for local consumption or sale.
43. “Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation” An Animal Feeding Operation (AFO) is a “Concentrated
    Animal Feeding Operation” (“CAFO”) if it meets the regulatory definition of CAFO or if it is
    designated as a CAFO by the State of Utah. A CAFO is defined in 40 CFR 122.23 Appendix B as “an
    animal feeding operation where more than one thousand (1,000) ‘animal units’ (as defined by the
    regulation) are confined at the location; or more than three-hundred (300) animal units are
    confined at the facility and either one of the following conditions are met: pollutants are
    discharged into navigable waters through a man-made ditch, flushing system or other similar
    man-made devices; or pollutants are discharged directly into waters of the United States which
    originate outside of and pass over, across, or through the facility or otherwise come into direct
    contact with the animals confined in the operation.” (“Animal unit”, for the purposes of an AFO
    being designated as a CAFO by the State of Utah, means a unit of measurement for any animal
    feeding operation calculated as per the Utah Administrative Code (UAC) R317-8-3.5 and used to
    determine if an operation meets the definition of a concentrated animal feeding operation). A
    CAFO is subject to the requirements of the Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (UPDES).
44. “Contractor’s Office” A facility providing building construction and maintenance, including
    carpentry, plumbing, roofing, electrical, air conditioning, and heating, within a fully enclosed
    building, and that may include the open storage of associated building materials, equipment, or
    vehicles.
45. “Contractor’s Storage Yard” means the same as “Storage Yard”.


                                                         OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 6 of 11
46. “Corral” means a space, other than a building, less than one acre in area or less than one hundred
    feet in width, used for the confinement of animals.
47. “Correctional Facility” means any facility operated by or contracting with the Department of
    Corrections to house offenders in either a secure or non-secure setting; which includes any facility
    operated by a municipality or a county to house or detain criminal offenders, any juvenile
    detention facility, and any building or grounds appurtenant to the facility or lands granted to the
    state, municipality, or county for use as a correctional facility.
48. “Court” means an occupied space on a lot, other than a yard, designed to be partially surrounded
    by group dwellings.
49. “Crematorium” means a building that contains cremation chambers and a holding facility for
    human or pet remains, and which may receive remains from funeral establishments.
50. “Critical Infrastructure Materials” means sand, gravel, or rock aggregate.
51. “Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations” means the extraction, excavation, processing, or
    reprocessing of critical infrastructure materials.
52. “Critical Infrastructure Materials Operator” means a natural person, corporation, association,
    partnership, receiver, trustee, executor, administrator, guardian, fiduciary, agent, or other
    organization or representative, either public or private, including a successor, assign, affiliate,
    subsidiary, and related parent company, that:
    a. Owns, controls, or manages a critical infrastructure materials operations; and
    b. Has produced commercial quantities of critical infrastructure materials from the critical
       infrastructure materials operations.
53. “Dairy” means a commercial establishment for the manufacture or processing of dairy products.
54. “Drive-Thru and Drive-Up Facilities” means an establishment designed or operated to provide
    drive-through or drive-up service to patrons remaining in vehicles. “Drive-Thru and Drive-Up
    Facilities” may include other forms of service, such as conventional seating.
55. “Duplex” means the same as “Dwelling, Two Family.”
56. “Dwelling, Manufactured Home” means a transportable factory-built housing unit constructed on
    or after June 15, 1976, according to the HUD Code, in one or more sections, that: (a) in the
    traveling mode, is eight body feet (8’) or more in width or 40 body feet (40’) or more in length, or
    when erected on site, is 400 or more square feet (400+ sq.ft.); and (b) is built on a permanent
    chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when
    connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and
    electrical systems. A manufactured home shall be attached to a permanent foundation in
    accordance with plans providing for vertical loads, uplift, lateral forces, and frost protection in
    compliance with the Kearns Metro Township’sCity of Kearns’s Building Code, as adopted. All
    appendages, including carports, garages, storage buildings, additions, or alterations shall be built
    in compliance with the Kearns Metro Township’sCity of Kearns’s Building Code, as adopted.




                                                        OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 7 of 11
19.18.040 Planned Unit Development Mixed Use
A. In a PUD, vertical mixed-use is allowed in zones that allow both residential and commercial and/or
    office uses, provided it meets the following requirements, in addition to the other requirements in
    this Chapter. For purposes of this section, vertical mixed-use means commercial or office uses sharing
    the same building as residential uses. PUDs in mixed-use zones shall comply with the standards of that
    zone.
B. The property is abutting or contiguous to a corridor as defined in the general plan, or major or minor
   arterial street.
C. Commercial uses shall only be allowed on the first floor of buildings fronting on the street. Office uses
   may only be allowed on the first and second floor of buildings fronting on the street. Entrances to the
   first floor of these buildings shall front on the street. Windows shall make up at least fifty percent
   (50%) of street-facing facades of these floors. These floors shall have architectural differentiation from
   the other floors in the building.
D. Parking is not allowed between the building(s) and the street.
E. The front yard setback shall be fifteen feet (15’), except as provided in Subsection (E), and the side
   and rear yards shall be twenty feet (20’) minimum. Corner lots are deemed to have two (2) front yards.
F. The front yard setback is the build-to-line. At least fifty percent (50%) of the front elevation of the
   building(s) must be built within ten feet (10’) of the build-to-line or as approved by the Planning
   Commission. A build-to-line is defined as the line at which construction of a building façade is to occur
   on a lot, running parallel to the front property line, and ensuring a uniform (or more or less even)
   building façade line on the street.




                                                             OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 8 of 11
19.42.090 Bed And Breakfast Inn
A bed and breakfast inn, where allowed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable zone, is also
subject to the following standards:
A. The structure shall have a residential appearance;
B. The structure shall be limited to a maximum of two (2) stories in height;
C. The structure must contain a minimum of five (5) guestrooms, but not more than fifteen (15)may
   contain no more than fifteen (15) guestrooms.
D. Guests using the accommodations or lodging must pay compensation;
E. A bed and breakfast inn may not provide cooking facilities in any individual guestroom;
F. The access to the site and the on-site parking shall be available for use and maintained, including snow
   removal, throughout the entire year; and
G. A bed and breakfast inn located in the C-1, C-2, C-3, and NMU zones may include a restaurant and
   conference rooms.


19.42.330 Storage And Salvage Yards
A. Storage yards and salvage yards, when listed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable zone,
    are subject to the following requirements:
    1. No portion of the storage area shall be located within three hundred feet (300') of any residential
       zone or use lot line.
    2. Any outdoor storage area shall be completely enclosed by a fence or wall no less than six feet (6')
       in height, constructed of a sturdy, durable material and sufficiently opaque to ensure that the
       stored material is not visible from outside the storage area. The fence or wall shall have a
       minimum of two (2) non-transparent gates not exceeding forty-eight feet (48') in width providing
       access to the storage area for vehicles but may not allow direct view of the storage area from
       adjacent properties or streets. Said fence or wall shall be continuously maintained in good
       condition and may contain only approved signs.
    3. Each salvage or storage yard must include a masonry wall along the entirety of each street
       frontage. This wall shall be constructed at the front setback line required for buildings in the
       underlying zone. The storage or salvage area may not be closer to the street than the front facade
       of the building. The Director may accept a landscaped berm in lieu of the masonry wall if the
       height, width, and berm landscaping fully screen the storage or salvage areas. A berm allowed in
       lieu of a masonry wall shall include live plant material that covers no less than fifty percent (50%)
       of the berm with grasses, bushes, ground cover or tree canopies. Trees and bushes must be at
       least twenty five percent (25%) evergreen.
    3.4. The surface of the storage or salvage yard shall be covered with an all-weather surface. Any
         stormwater or other runoff from the site shall be contained on the site and disposed of through
         an on-site drainage system, in conformance with applicable regulations to enforce the
         requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination Systems (NPDES) permit.


                                                            OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 9 of 11
4.5. Stored materials may not be stacked higher than six feet (6') and shall be stored in a manner so
     as not to be visible from adjoining properties or rights-of-way. In no case may salvage or junk be
     stored at a height exceeding the height of the storage area fence or wall. Operational vehicles and
     motorized equipment are not subject to the height requirement for storage. No inoperable
     vehicle or equipment may be stored within the outdoor storage areas. Permitted salvage yards
     are the only allowable storage areas for inoperable vehicles or equipment.
5.6. Outdoor storage shall be kept and maintained in a neat and orderly manner. Outdoor storage may
     not include dirt, manure, gravel, rocks, sand, bark, or similar materials, unless the items are stored
     in bags, on pallets, or on other individually sealed containers.
6.7. A management office shall be provided on site. A caretaker unit may be permitted for security
     personnel or on-site operator.
7.8. Conditions within the storage area shall be controlled to minimize the hazards of fire and other
     threats to health and safety. Conditions within the storage area shall be controlled to minimize
     the hazards of fire and other threats to health and safety. Product, salvage, or other storage shall
     be stored in rows with a continuously looping drive aisles with a minimum width of twenty feet
     (20').
8.9. Requests for a permit for a salvage yard shall also require submission of a detailed proposal
     identifying the predominant type of salvage to be received, the methods of separation and/or
     recycling, and ultimate destination of all salvaged, recycled, and waste materials. The applicant
     shall submit written materials outlining measures taken to comply with all necessary state,
     county, and local laws.
9.10.       All batteries shall be removed from any vehicle, and all radiator and fuel tanks shall be
    drained prior to the vehicle being placed in the storage yard. Salvaged batteries, oil and other
    such substances shall be removed by a licensed disposal company and be stored in a manner
    which prevents leakage of battery fluid. No fluids removed from vehicles may be applied as a dust
    control method, or otherwise allowed to be discharged upon the ground.
10.11.      Vehicle parts may not be stored, loaded, unloaded, or dismantled outside the fence
    enclosing the salvage yard.
11.12.     In order to protect surrounding areas, business operations, including loading and
    unloading operations shall be limited to daylight hours.




                                                        OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 10 of 11
19.56.060 Permit Procedures
A. Application. Application for a Floodplain Development Permit shall be presented to the Floodplain
    Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate
    drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations,
    existing and proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the location
    of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the following submittals and
    information are required:
    1. Plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevations of proposed landscape
       alterations;
    2. Plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of existing and proposed
       structures, including the placement of manufactured homes;
    3. Location of the foregoing in relation to SFHA’s;
    4. Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor (including basement and crawlspace)
       of all new and substantially improved structures;
    5. Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, to which any nonresidential structure (if applicable) shall
       be floodproofed;
    6. A certificate from a registered professional engineer that the nonresidential floodproofed
       structure (if applicable) shall meet the floodproofing criteria of this chapter and the NFIP
       Regulations;
    7. Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural drainage will be altered or relocated
       as a result of proposed development;
    8. All other information that may reasonably be required by the Floodplain Administrator;
    9. Reasonable fees in accordance with the adopted fee schedule; and
    10. Kearns Metro TownshipThe City of Kearns shall become the owner of all Floodplain Development
        Permits and shall maintain a record of all such information in accordance with this chapter and
        the NFIP Regulations.




                                                           OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 11 of 11
Meeting Body: Kearns Planning
Commission

Meeting Date: May 6, 2024

Planner: Curtis Woodward

Project Name and File Number:                                      SUMMARY
Residential Parking Amendments -
OAM2024-001135
                                          The proposed ordinance amendments are intended to
                                          clarify the requirements for paved and gravel parking
Project Type:                             surfaces in single and two-family residential zones, and to
      Amend Text Ordinance                provide an avenue for administrative relief under certain
Areas Affected: This amendment
                                          conditions to the 50% front yard coverage limit for front
primarily affects properties in single-   yard parking areas in the City of Kearns.
and two-family residential zones, but
                                                                ATTACHMENTS
some clarifications are generally
applicable to the entire City.            1.      Formal Ordinance
Key Findings:                             2.      Options considered by Planning Staff with
The proposal does not conflict with               explanatory notes
the state code.                           3.      Sample Properties/Photographs
The proposal clarifies residential
parking restrictions in harmony with                             BACKGROUND
their original intent.                    Project Purpose:
The proposal provides reasonable          Planning staff with the MSD have been tasked with proposing
flexibility for optional additional       adjustments to the parking requirements for single-family
front yard parking while maintaining      residential zones to address two issues:
at least 40% permeable surface on
residential lots.                         First, the Kearns code currently restricts the amount of
                                          parking (paved and gravel) in the front yard to no more than
Staff    Recommendation:       Staff      50% of the front yard area. In addition, no single yard may be
requests a positive recommendation        covered by more than 50% impervious surface. However, due
from the planning commission for          to lot size, configuration, etc. many homeowners in Kearns
the amendments clarifying paved           have limited options for providing additional on-site parking
and gravel parking and the optional
                                          for growing family needs and/or recreational vehicles. Some
exceptions to the front yard
                                          homeowners have unknowingly paved parking pads in the
coverage limits.
                                          front yard only to find that they are in violation of the code.
                                          Second, there is some ambiguity in the Kearns code
                                          regarding the configuration of parking areas in a front yard,
                                          as well as the parking regulations that apply to recreational
                                          vehicles as opposed to personal vehicles. Clarity is needed as
                                          to where gravel parking is appropriate, and where personal
                                          vehicles and recreational vehicles may be parked.


                                                    OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 1 of 18
Project Timeline:
February, 2024 - multiple violations of the 50% front yard pavement limit were identified within
the Parkwood Estates Subdivision and letters were sent to each property owner. Many of the
property owners pointed out that many other lots in Kearns had paved parking in excess of 50%
of the front yard.
March, 2024 – MSD planning staff were asked to evaluate properties in Kearns and consider
reasonable options for additional paving in front yards that were in harmony with the intent of
the original ordinance.
April, 2024 – MSD planning staff were asked to clarify the parking requirements for recreational
vehicles and to clarify the circumstances under which gravel parking was acceptable. Optional
ordinances were drafted and reviewed by staff, with preferred options being chosen.
Methodology:
The original thinking was that the maximum coverage could possibly be adjusted to account for
the majority of lots where additional paved parking had been installed – possibly raising the limit
from 50% to 60% or 65%. Using aerial imagery, planning staff evaluated the lots in Parkwood
Estates to calculate the front yard coverage in paved surface for each lot. We found that several
of the lots exceeded 70% coverage in the front yard, and raising the limit high enough to account
for all those yards would almost have the same effect as eliminating the limit altogether.
As an alternative, planning staff began to consider allowing exceptions to the standard through
an application and review process. Questions that arose during the drafting process were: Under
what criteria should exception requests be considered? Also, what limitations should be in place
as to the extent to which the front yard coverage area may be increased? Staff considered such
issues as storm drainage containment, aesthetic considerations, and whether specific design
standards could be approved for an entire subdivision as opposed to one lot at a time.
As for the parking surface and RV parking clarifications, staff focused on 3 issues:
1. Eliminating conflict between the generally applicable parking surface standards in 19.48.030
   and the parking surface standards in 19.48.040,
2. Clarifying where gravel parking may be utilized, and,
3. Clarifying the configuration of paved and gravel parking areas on residential lots.
Decision-Making Authority:
Ordinance amendments are legislative decisions approvable by the Kearns City Council. The
Kearns planning commission is a recommending body given the responsibility to hold a public
hearing and vote on a recommendation to the Council.

                                     ORDINANCE CONTENT
Sections:
The drafted ordinance amendment includes changes to the following Sections:
   1. 19.28.060 Lot Coverage

                                               OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 2 of 18
   2. 19.48.030 Specifications (from Chapter 19.48 Off Street Parking and Mobility Standards)
   3. 19.48.040 Standards for Parking in R-1 and R-2 Residential Zones
Existing Ordinance:
The existing sections of code, with areas of emphases/change highlighted in yellow are shown
below.
19.28.060 Lot Coverage
A. No combination of buildings, including accessory structures and other structures, shall cover
   more than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot or parcel of land.
B. No accessory structure or group of accessory structures shall cover more than twenty-five
   percent (25%) of the rear yard.
C. Concrete, asphalt and other impervious surfaces may not cover more than fifty percent
   (50%) of the yard area between a structure and a property line. This includes both the
   required setback area and any other yard area between the primary building and the
   property boundary. Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may install one driveway that
   exceeds the fifty percent (50%) impervious surface rule as long as that driveway does not
   exceed twenty feet (20’) in width.
19.48.030 Specifications
Any parking facility or portion thereof shall meet the following specifications:
A. Use of Off-Street Parking, Stacking, and Loading Facilities. All vehicular parking areas,
   stacking areas, and loading areas required by this Chapter shall only be used for those
   designated purposes.
B. Location. Except as otherwise permitted through on-street or public parking credits, all off-
   street parking areas shall be provided on the same lot as the use it serves, or no farther than
   three hundred feet (300’) from the primary entrance of a building or structure to the nearest
   point of the parking facility along publicly available sidewalk or walkways designated on the
   site plan.
   1. Access to parking spaces shall be from private roadways or aisles and not from public
      streets.
C. Space and Aisle Dimensions. Parking stalls and aisles shall comply with the dimensional
   regulations presented in Figure 19.48.030, according to the angle of the parking and the
   flow of traffic.
   1. Parking stalls adjacent to a column, wall, or other obstruction must have an additional
      two feet (2’) of width to accommodate ingress/egress from the vehicle.
D. Surfacing. All off-street parking, stacking, loading areas and drive approaches from the alley
   or street shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete, brick, stone, pavers, or an equivalent
   material.



                                               OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 3 of 18
   1. Pervious Surfaces. Surfaces such as pervious asphalt, pervious concrete or turf blocks are
      permitted; subject to municipal policies pertaining to stormwater management. A
      maintenance plan, outlining responsible parties, procedures, and schedules for
      maintenance of pervious pavement or permeable surfaces must be submitted and
      approved by the Municipal Engineer.
   2. Exception for Outdoor Storage. Surfacing materials for outdoor parking areas associated
      with vehicle or container storage may be graded and compacted gravel, provided the
      subject area is at least one hundred feet (100’) in driving distance from the nearest public
      street, no gravel is tracked off-site, and the paving surface is permitted in this Title.
E. Driveways, General. Adequate ingress and egress to the parking area shall be provided by
   clearly defined driveways.
   1. Distance from Lot Line. All driveways, including the entry radius of the drive approach
      that serve a single primary building or principal use, shall be at least one foot (1’) from
      an abutting lot line.
   2. Sidewalk Continuity. Sidewalks shall extend through driveway approaches and driveways
      shall be built to the grade of the sidewalk so that driveways do not create curb cuts in
      the sidewalk.
   3. Driveway Surface. There shall be a hard-surfaced driveway from the public or private
      right-of-way to the required parking space. The drive surface must be a permanent,
      durable, hard surface such as concrete (including permeable concrete), asphalt (including
      permeable asphalt), brick, pavers, stone, or block. A pervious surface may be used,
      subject to applicable municipal ordinances and policies.


19.48.040 Standards For Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones
A. Residential Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the street or
   right-of-way to the required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 or R-2 zone.
   1. The number, location, and width of driveways shall comply with the specifications set
      forth in Sections 14.12.110 and 14.36.060 of this Code.
   2. Driveways over one hundred fifty feet (150’) in length are subject to approval by the Fire
      Authority.
   3. The area within the front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied by a
      driveway or parking surface set forth above shall be landscaped in compliance with the
      applicable provisions of this Title.
B. Paved or gravel parking areas or driveways may not occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of
   the area of a front or rear yard. Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may install one
   driveway that exceeds the fifty percent (50%) parking or driveway rule as long as that
   driveway does not exceed twenty feet (20’) in width.




                                               OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 4 of 18
C. Front Yard Parking. Parking or storage of motor vehicles in the unpaved portion of the front
   yard of a residential use or residentially-zoned property is prohibited. A legal driveway in the
   front yard may be used for parking, provided the public sidewalk is not blocked.
D. Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles parked or stored on residential property in any
   R-1 or R-2 zone shall:
   1. Be parked or stored on a paved surface in the front yard, side yard, or rear yard of a
      dwelling. Additionally, a recreational vehicle may be parked or stored on a parking pad
      which is constructed of six inches of compacted gravel. This area must be kept weed free.
Proposed Solution:
   1. Change the maximum paved surface coverage of 50% for any given yard (in 19.28.060) to
      a maximum cumulative coverage of 60% impervious surface on the entire lot, including
      buildings and all paved surfaces.
   2. Allow for exceptions to the 50% front yard parking area maximum subject to:
       A. Compliance with the cumulative lot coverage maximum of 60%,
       B. Approval of the municipal engineers regarding drainage, and
       C. A minimum landscape area of 500 square feet is provided in the front yard, unless an
          alternative landscape standard is proposed and approved for an entire platted
          subdivision.
   3. Clarify that paved parking spaces and paved driveways may be used to park or store motor
      vehicles and recreational vehicles.
   4. Clarify that gravel parking spaces are allowed between a driveway and the nearest side lot
      line and/or in a rear or side yard provided they are accessible via paved driveway and not
      within the clear view area of a corner lot.

                                        STAFF ANALYSIS
Compatibility with Existing Plans and Ordinances:
The proposed changes were drafted with subdivision drainage engineering in mind. Generally,
subdivision drainage calculations account for an “assumed” maximum impervious surface area on
residential lots. This is the reason for the proposed maximum cumulative coverage of buildings +
paved area of 60% of the lot.
Additionally, some of the proposed changes are to eliminate any inconsistency between different
sections of the parking chapter of the Kearns code – specifically the overall parking specifications
and the R-1 & R-2 parking restrictions.
Consistency with State Code Requirements:
There are no anticipated conflicts with State Code requirements.
Anticipated Impacts:



                                               OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 5 of 18
There will likely be a few non-conformities created by the new restriction on the location of gravel
parking in front yards. MSD planning staff will need to define the internal review process for the
exception requests that will come in from front yard parking; including instructions for applicants
that can be posted on the web site. Code enforcement officers will need to be trained so they can
inform residents of options available under the new code.

                                  STAFF RECOMMENDATION
MSD Planning Staff has reviewed the drafted ordinance amendment OAM2024-001135. In
addition, the draft was sent to Salt Lake County Flood Control Engineering for comment. Based
on their review and analysis, staff finds that:
   1. The proposed ordinance does not conflict with the provisions of state code.
   2. The proposed ordinance will clarify the residential parking restrictions while keeping in
      harmony with their original intent.
   3. The proposed ordinance provides reasonable flexibility for optional additional front yard
      parking while maintaining at least 40% permeable surface on residential lots to allow on-
      site storm drain retention.
Given the above findings, staff recommends the planning commission forward a favorable
recommendation for approval to the Kearns City Council of the ordinance amendment outlined
in OAM2024-001135.

                                           NEXT STEPS
Upon receiving a recommendation from the planning commission, the ordinance will be referred
to the Kearns City Council for review and decision. The Council may approve, approve with
amendments, or deny the requested ordinance amendments. If the ordinance is approved by the
Council, it will be publicly posted, and the on-line ordinance edited to reflect the changes.




                                               OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 6 of 18
                                 ATTACHMENT 1

                               ORDINANCE 2024-____

      File No.OAM2024-001135                                  Date: MAY 13, 2024

  AN ORDINANCE OF THE KEARNS CITY COUNCIL AMENDING ZONING
         PROVISIONS ON PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS


                                       RECITALS
WHEREAS, the City of Kearns adopted a zoning ordinance pursuant to Utah Code Ann.
Subsection 10-9a-102(2) and has authority to amend said zoning ordinance when it
determines it is necessary; and
WHEREAS, the City of Kearns is a municipality and has authority to regulate land use
standards in general pursuant to Utah Code Ann. Subsection 10-9a-104 (1); and
WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to amend its ordinances in order to clarify the
parking restrictions for personal and recreational vehicles and to provide an avenue of
administrative relief for property owners to provide additional parking area while
accounting for the need to retain storm drainage on-site to the maximum extent feasible to
protect and preserve the public health, safety and general welfare.


BE IT ORDAINED BY THE KEARNS CITY COUNCIL as follows:
1.     Sections 19.28.060, 19.48.030, and 19.48.040 are amended and read as attached
hereto as Exhibit A. The amendments made Therein are designated by underlining the new
words, with words being deleted designated by brackets with a line drawn through said
words.

2.      Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or specific
application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in
full force and effect.
3.     Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting and
publication as required by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED this 13TH day of MAY 2024.




                                           OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 7 of 18
KEARNS CITY COUNCIL


By: Kelly Bush, Mayor

ATTEST

___________________________
Clerk/Recorder




Voting:
Council Member Bush           voting ___
Council Member Butterfield    voting ___
Council Member Snow           voting ___
Council Member Peterson       voting ___
Council Member Schaeffer      voting ___




                                     OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 8 of 18
                                       EXHIBIT A


19.28.060 Lot Coverage
A. No combination of buildings, including accessory structures and other structures, shall
   cover more than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot or parcel of land.
B. No accessory structure or group of accessory structures shall cover more than twenty-
   five percent (25%) of the rear yard.
C. [Concrete, asphalt and other impervious surfaces may not cover more than fifty
   percent (50%) of the yard area between a structure and a property line. This includes
   both the required setback area and any other yard area between the primary building
   and the property boundary. Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may install one
   driveway that exceeds the fifty percent (50%) impervious surface rule as long as that
   driveway does not exceed twenty feet (20’) in width.] The combined coverage area of
   all impervious surfaces, including buildings, driveways, paved walkways, patios and
   other structures, may not exceed 60% of the area of the lot .

(19.48.030.D)
D. Surfacing. All required off-street parking, stacking, loading areas and drive
   approaches from the alley or street shall be hard surfaced with asphalt, concrete,
   brick, stone, pavers, or an equivalent material. Optional parking spaces in R-1 and R-
   2 zones may be constructed of compacted road base or gravel in compliance with
   section 19.48.040.E
   1. Pervious Surfaces. Surfaces such as pervious asphalt, pervious concrete or turf
       blocks are permitted; subject to municipal policies pertaining to stormwater
       management. A maintenance plan, outlining responsible parties, procedures, and
       schedules for maintenance of pervious pavement or permeable surfaces must be
       submitted and approved by the Municipal Engineer.
   2. Exception for Outdoor Storage. Surfacing materials for outdoor parking areas
       associated with vehicle or container storage may be graded and compacted gravel,
       provided the subject area is at least one hundred feet (100’) in driving distance
       from the nearest public street, no gravel is tracked off-site, and the paving surface
       is permitted in this Title.

19.48.040 Standards For Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones
A. Residential Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the
   street or right-of-way to the required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 or R-2
   zone.
   1. The number, location, and width of driveways shall comply with the specifications
       set forth in Sections 14.12.110 and 14.36.060 of this Code.
   2. Driveways over one hundred fifty feet (150’) in length are subject to approval by
       the Fire Authority.


                                            OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 9 of 18
   3. The area within the front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied
       by a driveway or parking surface set forth above shall be landscaped in
       compliance with the applicable provisions of this Title.
B. Except as provided in subsection C,[Paved] paved or gravel parking areas or
   driveways may not occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of the area of a front or rear
   yard. Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may install one driveway that exceeds the
   fifty percent (50%) parking or driveway rule as long as that driveway does not exceed
   twenty feet (20’) in width.
C. Parking areas in the front yard may exceed 50% of the front yard area under the
   following conditions:
   1. The combined coverage area of all impervious surfaces on the lot do not exceed
       60% of the total lot area, and;
   2. The municipal engineer verifies that the site plan as proposed will not adversely
       impact the municipal or local storm drain system, and;
   3. Either:
       a. A landscape planting area of at least 500 square feet is maintained in the front
           yard, or:
       b. A front yard parking and landscape standard specific to a platted subdivision
           with approval of the majority of the homeowners is submitted for review and
           approved by the planning commission.

[C]D. [Front Yard]Paved Parking. Paved parking spaces within or adjacent to the
    driveway may be used to park or store motor vehicles and recreational vehicles in a
    front, side, or rear yard, provided that no parking space is allowed within the clear
    view area of intersecting streets. Parking or storage of motor vehicles in the unpaved
    portion of the front yard of a residential use or residentially-zoned property is
    prohibited, except where a gravel parking pad is installed in compliance with
    subsection 19.48.040.E. A legal driveway in the front yard may be used for parking,
    provided the public sidewalk is not blocked.
[D]E. Gravel Parking.[Recreational Vehicles.] A parking pad consisting of six inches of
    compacted gravel may be located between a paved driveway and the nearest side lot
    line in a front yard, provided the gravel parking pad is not within the clear view area
    of intersecting streets. Motor vehicles and [R]recreational vehicles may be parked or
    stored on said gravel parking pad provided the parking pad is kept weed free.
    [residential property in any R-1 or R-2 zone shall:] Parking pads consisting of six
    inches of compacted gravel may also be located in a side yard or rear yard provided
    they are accessible by paved driveway.
[1. Be parked or stored on a paved surface in the front yard, side yard, or rear yard of a
    dwelling. Additionally, a recreational vehicle may be parked or stored on a parking
    pad which is constructed of six inches of compacted gravel. This area must be kept
    weed free.]



                                          OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 10 of 18
                                     ATTACHMENT 2


                                      OAM2024-001135
                                               Issues

1. Currently, the Kearns code restricts the amount of parking (paved and gravel) in the front yard
to no more than 50% of the total area of said front yard. In addition, no single yard area (front,
side, or rear) may be covered by more than 50% impervious surface. However, due to lot size,
configuration, etc. many homeowners in Kearns have limited options for providing additional
on-site parking for growing family needs and/or recreational vehicles. Cul-de-sac lots generally
have less front yard area (sq. ft.) than typical rectangular lots. In addition, a large number of lots
do not have adequate space in the side yard to provide reasonable access to a rear yard or to
provide side yard parking.

Question: what is the best option for allowing additional on-site parking for lots in Kearns while
keeping in harmony with the purpose of the zoning ordinance and avoiding drainage issues?
Should the 50% front yard coverage area be increased to another amount, or should there be a
way to apply for exceptions in certain circumstances?



2. The Kearns code does not specify the configuration of parking areas in a front yard, as long as
the 50% coverage is not exceeded. The current code allowing for recreational vehicles to be
parked on a gravel parking pad do not specify where that gravel parking pad may be.

Question: should parking vehicles parallel to the street in front yards be prohibited? Should
gravel parking for recreational vehicles be restricted to side yards and rear yards or at least not
directly in front of the home?




                                               OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 11 of 18
                                 Front Yard Coverage Option 1

This option is to simply increase the maximum impervious surface in a front yard from 50% to
60% (or some other percentage as determined by the Council). This would offer relief to some of
the lots in Parkwood Estates, but some of those lots are over 70% covered, so adopting a cap
that would make all those lots legal would almost mean waiving the cap altogether.

19.28.060 Lot Coverage

A. No combination of buildings, including accessory structures and other structures, shall cover
   more than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot or parcel of land.

B. No accessory structure or group of accessory structures shall cover more than twenty-five
   percent (25%) of the rear yard.

C. Concrete, asphalt and other impervious surfaces may not cover more than sixty percent
   (60%) of the yard area between the main building and the front or rear property line. This
   includes both the required setback area and any other yard area between the primary
   building and the property boundary. Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may install one
   driveway that exceeds the sixty percent (60%) impervious surface rule as long as that
   driveway does not exceed twenty feet (20’) in width.



19.48.040 Standards For Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones

A. Residential Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the street or
   right-of-way to the required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 or R-2 zone.

   1. The number, location, and width of driveways shall comply with the specifications set
      forth in Sections 14.12.110 and 14.36.060 of this Code.
   2. Driveways over one hundred fifty feet (150’) in length are subject to approval by the Fire
      Authority.
   3. The area within the front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied by a
      driveway or parking surface set forth above shall be landscaped in compliance with the
      applicable provisions of this Title.
B. Paved or gravel parking areas or driveways may not occupy more than sixty percent (60%) of
   the area of a front or rear yard. Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may install one
   driveway that exceeds the sixty percent (60%) parking or driveway rule as long as that
   driveway does not exceed twenty feet (20’) in width.




                                             OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 12 of 18
                                  Front Yard Coverage Option 2

This option changes the lot coverage from 50% of front and rear, to 60% of the total lot. Then in
the parking section, there is flexibility given to allow the front yard to exceed 50%, provided the
total lot coverage still complies with the 60% cap, the engineering division verifies a subdivision
drainage problem won’t result, and there is a minimum landscape area of 500 square feet
somewhere in the front yard. Smaller yards in an R-1-6 zone would have a total front yard of at
least 1500 square feet (60’ wide by 25’ deep). This would put the maximum front yard coverage
ratio on these smaller lots at approximately 67% - assuming they meet the other criteria.

19.28.060 Lot Coverage

A. No combination of buildings, including accessory structures and other structures, shall cover
   more than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot or parcel of land.

B. No accessory structure or group of accessory structures shall cover more than twenty-five
   percent (25%) of the rear yard.

C. The combined coverage area of all impervious surfaces, including buildings, driveways,
   paved walkways, patios and other structures, may not exceed 60% of the area of the lot .



19.48.040 Standards For Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones

A. Residential Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the street or
   right-of-way to the required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 or R-2 zone.

   1. The number, location, and width of driveways shall comply with the specifications set
      forth in Sections 14.12.110 and 14.36.060 of this Code.
   2. Driveways over one hundred fifty feet (150’) in length are subject to approval by the Fire
      Authority.
   3. The area within the front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied by a
      driveway or parking surface set forth above shall be landscaped in compliance with the
      applicable provisions of this Title.
B. Except as provided in subsection C, paved or gravel parking areas or driveways may not
   occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of the area of a front or rear yard. Any lot less than
   forty feet (40’) wide may install one driveway that exceeds the fifty percent (50%) parking or
   driveway rule as long as that driveway does not exceed twenty feet (20’) in width.

C. Parking areas in the front yard may exceed 50% of the front yard area under the following
   conditions:

1. The combined coverage area of all impervious surfaces on the lot do not exceed 60% of the
   total lot area, and;

                                              OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 13 of 18
2. The municipal engineer verifies that the site plan as proposed will not adversely impact the
   municipal or local storm drain system, and;

3. A landscape planting area of at least 500 square feet is maintained in the front yard.



D.      Front Yard Parking. Parking or storage of motor vehicles in the unpaved portion of the
front yard of a residential use or residentially-zoned property is prohibited. A legal driveway in
the front yard may be used for parking, provided the public sidewalk is not blocked.

E.     Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles parked or stored on residential property in
any R-1 or R-2 zone shall:

   1. Be parked or stored on a paved surface in the front yard, side yard, or rear yard of a
      dwelling. Additionally, a recreational vehicle may be parked or stored on a parking pad
      which is constructed of six inches of compacted gravel. This area must be kept weed free.




                                              OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 14 of 18
                                 Front Yard Coverage Option 3

This option combines some elements from option 1, with the “exception” principle of option 2.
However, the exception allows for an entire subdivision to be approved with alternative set of
standards for front yard coverage, and front yard landscaping. As with option 1, the “cap” is
raised to 60%, and as with option 2, the engineering division must verify that drainage will not
be a problem. Rather than set a minimum amount of landscaping to be at 500 square feet, it
allows for the landscaping minimums to be determined as part of the package of front yard
standards. This particular exception would probably be the least likely to be utilized in existing
subdivisions, because it would require the majority of homeowners in the subdivision to approve
of the new standards. However, in the case of Parkwood Estates, where almost every
homeowner has a front yard violation, this option might be the ideal solution.

19.28.060 Lot Coverage

A. No combination of buildings, including accessory structures and other structures, shall cover
   more than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot or parcel of land.

B. No accessory structure or group of accessory structures shall cover more than twenty-five
   percent (25%) of the rear yard.

C. Concrete, asphalt and other impervious surfaces may not cover more than sixty percent
   (60%) of the yard area between the primary building and a front or rear property line. This
   includes both the required setback area and any other yard area between the primary
   building and the property boundary. Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may install one
   driveway that exceeds the fifty percent (50%) impervious surface rule as long as that
   driveway does not exceed twenty feet (20’) in width.



19.48.040 Standards For Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones

A. Residential Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the street or
   right-of-way to the required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 or R-2 zone.

1. The number, location, and width of driveways shall comply with the specifications set forth in
   Sections 14.12.110 and 14.36.060 of this Code.

2. Driveways over one hundred fifty feet (150’) in length are subject to approval by the Fire
   Authority.

3. The area within the front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied by a
   driveway or parking surface set forth above shall be landscaped in compliance with the
   applicable provisions of this Title.

B. Except as provided in subsection C, paved or gravel parking areas or driveways may not
   occupy more than sixty percent (60%) of the area of a front or rear yard. Any lot less than

                                             OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 15 of 18
   forty feet (40’) wide may install one driveway that exceeds the sixty percent (60%) parking or
   driveway rule as long as that driveway does not exceed twenty feet (24’) in width.

C. A platted subdivision may be approved by the planning commission with alternative
   standards for paved parking surfaces and driveways that exceed the above limits under the
   following conditions:

1. The municipal engineer verifies that the subdivision drainage system will not adversely be
   impacted by the alternative standards;

2. The majority of property owners within the platted subdivision agree to the alternative
   standards; and,

3. Specific elements for landscaping and other design features are included with the alternative
   standards.

D. Front Yard Parking. Parking or storage of motor vehicles in the unpaved portion of the front
   yard of a residential use or residentially-zoned property is prohibited. A legal driveway in the
   front yard may be used for parking, provided the public sidewalk is not blocked.

E. Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles parked or stored on residential property in any
   R-1 or R-2 zone shall:

   1. Be parked or stored on a paved surface in the front yard, side yard, or rear yard of a
      dwelling. Additionally, a recreational vehicle may be parked or stored on a parking pad
      which is constructed of six inches of compacted gravel. This area must be kept weed free.




                                              OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 16 of 18
                                    Parking Configuration Option 1

This option separates the rules for front yard parking from side and rear yard parking. It specifies
that all motor vehicles and recreational vehicles (defined in code as to include trailers) in a front
yard must be parked on an approved parking surface as described in the standards
(19.48.030.D). The option for parking on a compacted gravel pad is only allowed in the side or
rear yard. It is important to note that “front yard” is defined as the “space on the same lot with a
building between the front line of the building and the front lot line, and extending across the
full width of the lot.” If the intention is to allow a gravel parking pad between the driveway and
side lot line as long as it is not directly in front of the home, this option will not work.



19.48.040 Standards For Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones

C. (or D) Front Yard Parking. Parking or storage of motor vehicles or recreational vehicles in the
   front yard of a residential use or residentially-zoned property is prohibited unless they are
   parked on a legal parking surface in accordance with 19.48.030.D, provided the public
   sidewalk is not blocked.

D. (or E) Side or Rear Yard Parking. Motor vehicles or recreational vehicles parked or stored in a
   side yar or rear yard on residential property in any R-1 or R-2 zone shall be parked or stored
   on a paved surface or on a parking pad which is constructed of six inches of compacted
   gravel which is kept weed free.




                                  Parking Configuration Option 2

This option separates the rules for recreational vehicles from other vehicles. Cars and trucks will
need to be parked on a paved surface, while recreational vehicles may be on a paved surface or
gravel pad. One caveat is that recreational vehicles in a front yard must be parked perpendicular
to the dwelling on a paved surface or gravel parking pad. However a gravel parking pad in the
front yard is only allowed between the paved driveway and an interior (not facing a street) side
lot line. They may be parked facing any direction in a side or rear yard on a paved or gravel
surface.

19.48.040 Standards For Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones

C. (or D) Motor Vehicle Parking. Parking or storage of motor vehicles (other than recreational
   vehicles) in the unpaved portion of the front yard of a residential use or residentially-zoned
   property is prohibited. A legal driveway in the front yard may be used for parking, provided
   the public sidewalk is not blocked.

                                              OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 17 of 18
D. (or E) Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles parked or stored on residential property in
   any R-1 or R-2 zone shall:

   1. Be parked or stored perpendicular to the front lot line on a paved surface in the front
      yard, or six-inch thick gravel parking pad located between a paved driveway and interior
      side lot line; or,

   2. Be parked in a side yard or rear yard of a dwelling on a paved surface or six-inch thick
      parking pad that is kept weed free.



                                   Parking Configuration Option 3

This option would be to focus on the types of parking surfaces (paved vs. compacted gravel),
including which yard each type may be in, what type of vehicles may be parked on each type,
and which direction each parking spot must face (parallel or perpendicular to the street).

C. (or D) Paved Parking. Paved parking spaces within or adjacent to the driveway may be used
   to park or store motor vehicles and recreational vehicles in a front, side, or rear yard,
   provided that no parking space is allowed within the clear view area of intersecting streets.
   Parking or storage of motor vehicles in the unpaved portion of the front yard of a residential
   use or residentially-zoned property is prohibited. A legal driveway in the front yard may be
   used for parking, provided the public sidewalk is not blocked.

D. (or E) Gravel Parking.. A parking pad consisting of six inches of compacted gravel may be
   located between a paved driveway and an interior (not facing a public street) lot line in a
   front yard. Motor vehicles and recreational vehicles may be parked or stored on said gravel
   parking pad provided the parking pad is kept weed free. Parking pads consisting of six
   inches of compacted gravel may also be located in a side yard or rear yard provided they are
   accessible by paved driveway.




                                             OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 18 of 18
