                                   Planning and Development Services
                                   860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300 • Taylorsville, UT 84123
                                   Phone: (385) 910-5600




                         Kearns Planning Commission
                                     Public Meeting Agenda

                   Monday, October 6, 2025, 6:00 P.M.
Location
Microsoft Teams
https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-
join/19%3ameeting_MjZlNzFmMTktODE5MS00NmJhLWI2MGQtZmVhMjNlYmNhZjcz%40t
hread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%22fac3e0b8-c4a6-4120-b366-
ee6cb2fb76a8%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22f8a001a5-21cc-482a-9f5a-682bacd87641%22%7d
Meeting ID: 259 277 396 396 7
Passcode: tQ3sG6hi
Dial in by phone
+1 213-357-4434,,857115854# United States, Los Angeles
Find a local number
Phone conference ID: 857 115 854#
Anchor Location KEARNS ATHLETIC TRAINING AND EVENT CENTER
                      5658 SOUTH COUGAR LANE
                      MEETING ROOM
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                     BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Welcome and approval of the agenda. (Motion/Voting)
    2) Commissioner Discussion and Staff Assignments: this standing agenda item allows
       Planning Commissioners the opportunity to raise and discuss important issues related to
       current and long range planning in Kearns. The Commission may direct assignments to
       planning staff related to discussion items. (Discussion and Staff Direction: Planning Staff)
    3) Approval of August 4, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
    4) Other Business Items. (As Needed)



October 6, 2025                               Page 1 of 2                                AGENDA – KEARNS
                               PUBLIC HEARING(S)

OAM2025-001490 – General Plan update to adopt the Water Element Plan. Planner: Bianca
Paulino (Discussion/Recommendation)

                                     ADJOURN




October 6, 2025                       Page 2 of 2                     AGENDA – KEARNS
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



October 6, 2025                                       Page 1 of 1                                   AGENDA – KEARNS
                                                          Ordinance Amendment
Meeting Body:      Kearns      Planning                          PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Commission
                                          The proposed action is the adoption of the Water Use & Preservation
                          th
Meeting Date: October 6 , 2025            Element as a new chapter of the Kearns General Plan. This update is
File Number &        Project     Type:    required by Utah Code §10-9a-403 and ensures that the City coordinates
OAM2025-001490                            land use planning with available water resources. The Water Use &
                                          Preservation Element documents existing supply, projected future
This amendment adopts the Water
                                          demand, and establishes conservation strategies. Adoption will impact all
Use & Preservation Element as a new
chapter of the Kearns General Plan,       properties in Kearns by ensuring new and existing development is
ensuring compliance with state law        supported by sustainable water resources.
and aligning future land use with
                                                                    ISSUES/CONCERNS
available water resources and
conservation goals.                       Issue 1: State law compliance
Planner: Bianca Paulino                   Analysis: Utah Code requires municipalities to adopt a General Plan
Applicant: N/A                            Water Use & Preservation Element. Without it, the City risks
                                          noncompliance. Adoption addresses this by providing an up-to-date
Key Findings:
                                          element with provider coordination, supply and demand modeling, and
     Finding 1: Adoption of the Water     conservation strategies.
Use & Preservation Element is
required under Utah Code §10-9a-          Issue 2: Growth and water demand
403.
                                          Analysis: Projected growth could increase water demand. The Water Use
    Finding 2: Projected growth can       & Preservation Element demonstrates that even at full build-out, per
be supported by existing and planned
                                          capita demand remains within regional conservation goals. Land use
water supplies if conservation goals
are met.                                  policies and water-wise ordinances provide tools to maintain efficiency.

    Finding 3: The Element aligns the     Issue 3: Regional water conservation
General Plan with sustainability and
                                          Analysis: The health of the Great Salt Lake and regional air quality are
resource management goals.
                                          tied to water conservation. The Water Use & Preservation Element
Staff   Recommendation:        Staff
                                          strengthens Kearns’ local landscaping standards, tiered rates, and
recommends        the      Planning
                                          coordination with water providers to reduce waste at the community
Commission         forward        a
recommendation of approval of the
                                          level, while also advancing shared regional goals.
Water Use & Preservation Element as
an amendment to the Kearns General
Plan.
Exhibits: Kearns Water Element Draft




       Ordinance Amendment: OAM2025-001490                                          Date: 09/19/2025 | Page 1 of 3
                               GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The proposed amendment adopts the Water Use & Preservation Element as a new component of the
Kearns General Plan. While not previously included, this Element is required under Utah Code §10-9a-
403 and will serve as an addition to the adopted General Plan (2020).

The Element draws upon the Future Land Use Map (pp. 28–35, Kearns General Plan, 2020) to model
anticipated growth and ensure it can be supported with available water resources. Adoption aligns the
General Plan with state law and strengthens the Plan’s goals for sustainability, resource management,
and coordinated land use planning.

                         APPLICABLE FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION
Table 19.16.080 includes the following guidelines a planning commission and Council may consider in
deciding zoning map and text amendments:

GUIDELINES FOR CONSIDERING ZONING TEXT AMENDMENTS

The proposed amendment is compatible with the Adopted General Plan.

The proposed amendment promotes the public health, safety and welfare.

The proposed amendment is compatible with the intent and general purposes of this Ordinance.


The proposed amendment corrects an error or omission, adds clarification to existing requirements, or
reflects a change in policy.

The proposed amendment benefits the citizens of the Municipality as a whole.

The proposed amendment does not create a significant number of nonconformities.



                                           PUBLIC INPUT
Planning Staff has not received any comments from the public as of the completion of this staff report.
Any comments that are received will be forwarded to the Kearns Planning Commission for review and will
be summarized on October 6th, 2025.

                              ANALYSIS AND RECOMMENDATION
Analysis and Summary:

The proposed amendment adopts the Water Use & Preservation Element as a new chapter of the
Kearns General Plan, fulfilling the requirements of Utah Code §10-9a-403. This Element was drafted in
coordination with the Kearns Improvement District (KID) and Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District




Ordinance Amendment: OAM2025-001490                                    Date: 09/19/2025 | Page 2 of 3
(TBID) to ensure that anticipated growth reflected in the Future Land Use Map can be supported by
available water resources.

Key issues included ensuring compliance with state law, addressing long-term conservation goals, and
coordinating land use with provider capacity. During the drafting process, staff incorporated feedback
from providers and key stakeholders, integrated updated water conservation goals, and aligned
ordinance references with the City’s adopted landscaping standards. The Element demonstrates that
projected demand at full build-out remains within regional conservation targets, and that ongoing
ordinance updates, conservation programs, and interagency coordination will maintain system
reliability.

Recommendation:

Staff recommends the Planning Commission forward a recommendation of approval of the Water Use &
Preservation Element as an amendment to the Kearns General Plan.

                               PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:
As a recommending body to the Council for zoning map amendments and text changes, the planning
commission has the following options:

    1. Approval: The planning commission recommends approval of application OAM2025-001490 to
       adopt the Water Use & Preservation Element as an additional chapter to the General Plan.
    2. Approval with changes: The planning commission recommends approval of application
       OAM2025-001490 to adopt the Water Use & Preservation Element as an additional chapter to
       the General Plan.
    3. Denial: Having considered the Guidelines for Zoning Text Amendments contained in Chapter
       19.16 of the City of Kearns zoning ordinance, the planning commission recommends denial of
       application OAM2025-001490 to adopt the Water Use & Preservation Element as an additional
       chapter to the General Plan.




Ordinance Amendment: OAM2025-001490                                     Date: 09/19/2025 | Page 3 of 3
Kearns Water Element
The General Plan Water Element is an opportunity for the municipalities in the state to
coordinate their land use with the goals and supply of their water providers. Kearns is a small
community and is primarily served by the Kearns Improvement District (KID) and the Bennion-
Taylorsville Improvement District. The Water Element highlights what water resources are
currently available in the City and what will be needed based not just on population
projections, but also on the changes that the General Plan Future Land Use map and other
policies.

Crucial to understanding the state of water in the City is engagement with local water
providers. Key to consolidating and prioritizing information, recommendations, and policies is
coordination with water providers and major water users. In the development of this water
element Kearns Improvement District and Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District were
consulted in a series of meetings. This coordination effort allows the City to better anticipate




                                               T
the challenges that development will pose to provision of this key resource.

This water element fulfills the requirements identified in State Law 10-9a-403 including the
following objectives:

        1. Analyze the effect of permitted development or patterns of development on water
               AF
        demand and water infrastructure.

        2. Consider methods of reducing water demand and per capita water use for existing
        development.

        3. Consider methods of reducing water demand and per capita water use for future
        development.

        4. Evaluate modifications that can be made to the City’s government operations to
        reduce and eliminate water waste.

Thank you to our collaborators:
 R
    •   Kearns Improvement District
    •   Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District
D


Kearns General Plan: Water Element
Water Resources




                                              T
               AF
 R
D


Figure 1. Water Resources Overview

Existing Water Resources
Kearns residents are served by two public water providers, the Kearns Improvement District
(KID) and the Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District. KID serves the majority of the City


Kearns General Plan: Water Element
and portions of surrounding areas within West Valley, Taylorsville, West Jordan, and
unincorporated Salt Lake County. Sources for Kearn’s Improvement District and Taylorsville
Bennion Improvement District include:

    •   Jordan Valley Conservancy District wholesale agreement
    •   12 Kearns Improvement District Deep Wells
    •   9 active Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District active wells

Kearns Improvement District receives much of their water via the wholesale agreement between
Jordan Valley Conservancy District, accounting for roughly 93% of the total KID annual water
use today, with the remaining 7% of water supply produced by 12 KID owned deep wells. The
district is currently contracted to purchase 7,750 acre-feet of water from Jordan Valley
Conservancy District with an allowable increase of 120% annually to meet district supply needs.
In the future, contracted wholesale water deliveries between Jordan Valley Water Conservancy
District and KID are expected to increase to 9,400 acre-feet annually with an allowed increase
of 120% with a maximum annual supply of 11,280 acre-feet.




                                                 T
Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District water production consists of water from 9 active wells
with an additional 13 inactive wells. Currently, Taylorsville-Bennion produces roughly 65% of
their annual water supply from District owned wells. The remaining supply is received from
Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District through a wholesale contract of 4,700 acre-feet
annually, or roughly 35% of the districts annual production, with no additional supply capacity
               AF
anticipated in the future. The sources that sustain KID and Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement
District’s culinary water are described in Table 1: Existing Water Sources below.

 Table 1: Existing Water Sources (KID Water Conservation Plan, 2022; Taylorsville Bennion Water
 Conservation Plan, 2024)
 Existing Source                    Kearns Improvement District       Taylorsville-Bennion
                                    (Ac. Ft.)                         Improvement District (Ac. Ft.)
 Existing Deep Wells               678.9                             15,825

 JVCWD Wholesale Supply            9,300                             4,700
 Contact
 R
 Subtotal                          9,978.9                           20,525


In the future, KID anticipates continued wholesale contracts with the Jordan Valley Waer
Conservancy District, with a relatively small share coming from their existing wells. The
Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District plans to rehabilitate active wells over time, but does
not require new sources to meet the future demands.
D

The City accounts for 57% of the parcels within the Kearns Improvement District, with the
remaining service area encompassing sections of West Jordan (26%), West Valley City (13%),
unincorporated Salt Lake County (3%) and Taylorsville (1%). Additionally, Kearns accounts for
7% of the parcels within the Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District, with the remaining
parcels within Taylorsville (88%), West Valley City (4%), and West Jordan (1%). While the
distribution of parcels across these service areas is helpful, this does not necessarily account for
the exact share that the City has in water use from each provider. Water users have different
needs, for example parks which are generally all within one parcel require significantly more
water than residential parcels, these different uses are dispersed differently throughout the
cities that the districts serve.




Kearns General Plan: Water Element
                                                T
         Figure 2. Share of Parcels within         Figure 3. Share of Parcels within
         the Taylorsville-Bennion                  the Kearns Improvement District
         Improvement District Boundary             Boundary




 10000
  9000
  8000
               AF         KID Supply from Source (Ac-Ft.)



  7000
  6000
  5000
  4000
  3000
  2000
 R
  1000
     0
      2020                  2021                 2022                  2023              2024

       Hercules Tank Well (WS014)                   Monroc Well #10 (WS011)
       Well #1 (WS003)                              Well #11 (WS012)
D

       Well #12 (WS013)                             Well #2 (WS004)
       Well #3 (WS005)                              Well #5 (WS007)
       Well #6 (WS008)                              Well #8 5350 W 5400 S (WS009)
       Well #9 4550 S 6000 W (WS010)                Purchased from Jordan Valley WCD (WS001)


 Figure 4. KID Culinary Water Supply in 2024 (Division of Water Rights, 2025)




Kearns General Plan: Water Element
               Taylorsville-Bennion Supply from Source (Ac-Ft.)
 16000
 14000
 12000
 10000
  8000
  6000
  4000
  2000
     0
      2020                  2021                   2022                  2023                   2024




                                                 T
         Atherton East Well (WS023)                  Atherton West Well (WS024)
         Barker West Well (WS003)                    Pioneer Well (WS027)
         Rawson Well (WS026)                         Swensen Well (WS029)
         Taylorsville East Well (WS002)              Taylorsville West Well (WS021)
               AF
         Valley Well (WS028)                         Purchased from Jordan Valley WCD (WS004)

 Figure 5. Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District Culinary Water Supply in 2024 (Division of Water
 Rights, 2025)

Secondary Water
Additionally, about 99 acres of the City are
within the Utah Lake Distributing Co. service
area. Secondary water is available through
Utah Lake Distributing and the Utah & Salt
Lake Canal Co. via Jordan River and the
Utah Lake Dam. Neither KID nor the
Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement Districts
 R
currently supply secondary water or
anticipate development of their own
secondary water infrastructure. The figure
below depicts the secondary and irrigation
service areas within the City.
D


                                                  Figure 6. Irrigation Companies




Kearns General Plan: Water Element
Culinary Water Demand
Demand for culinary water is closely monitored by water providers to help identify trends that
can help them better understand future water supply needs, develop new sources, and identify
conservation goals. The Water Conservation Plans and the Culinary Water Master Plans for
each culinary water provider identify the number of connections, the use per connection and
land use, the per capita water usage for each of the service areas, and peak usage numbers.
The Conservation Plans identify conservation methods and specific timelines and
implementation steps to achieve these goals and the impact that conservation will have on the
total water demand. These plans project water demand and supply requirements to the year
2065, well beyond the life of the Kearns General Plan.

Water Conservation Plans

Water Conservation Plans are updated by water providers every 5 years and are required by
State law to include water conservation goals, actions, and associated timelines. Goals included
in this water element directly reflect the goals and actions from each of the City’s water




                                                T
providers, and should be regularly updated to reflect progress within these service areas and
evolving conservation best
practices.

    •   Kearns Improvement
        District Water

    •
               AF
        Conservation Plan
        Taylorsville Bennion
        Improvement District
        Water Conservation Plan

The General Plan Element focuses
more heavily on KID, which covers
a higher proportion of the City.
However, the improvement
districts both extend beyond the
city boundary. Because of this,
additional land use analysis is
 R
used in this Water Element to
identify needs and trends as they
relate to the municipality itself,
not just within the service provider
boundaries. Importantly, this
section identifies total
connections, per capita use and
D

goals, and actions that are being
taken by both water providers to
make the provision of water more
efficient.




                                       Figure 7. Water Provider Service Boundaries




Kearns General Plan: Water Element
Kearns Improvement District
The Kearns Improvement District was established in 1957 to provide water and sewer services to
customers in Kearns after the closure of the Camp Kearns Army Base. In 1957 there were 3,100,
today KID provides culinary water to 14,573 connections and serving a population of 56,555.
The district serves Kearns, but also several surrounding cities, including West Valley, West
Jordan, Taylorsville City, and unincorporated areas of Salt Lake County. Today the water users
that use the most per connection are industrial and commercial users, however, the greatest
proportion of water in the district is used for residential use which accounts for more land than
commercial and industrial.


               Table 2. Customer Connections (2024, Source: DNR Division of
               Water Rights)
               Connection Type                       Connections
               Residential                           14161




                                                T
               Commercial                            210
               Industrial                            20
               Institutional                         182
               Total                                 14,573
               ERC Value                             21,298
               AF
            Average Gallons per
            Connection per Day
                                                               Total Use by Type (Ac-Ft)
                                                                          674.47 170.78
                               30110

                                                                   1,972.02


                                                                                                  5,590.25
                  8384
 R
      352                                 837

   Residential Commercial Industrial Institutional                       Residential      Commercial
                                                                         Industrial       Institutional
D


Kearns General Plan: Water Element
Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District
The District serves a population of 67,098 and provides wholesale water (approximately 108.25
ac-ft) to Muirhouse Homeowners Association and Summit Vista Water Company (2024, Source:
DNR Division of Water Rights). Today residential connections use a higher amount of water
compared to residential uses within KID and account for a larger proportion of overall water
supplied by the district.

                 Table 3. Customer Connections (2024, Source: DNR Division of
                 Water Rights)
                 Connection Type                  Connections
                 Residential                      16731
                 Commercial                       528
                 Industrial                       5
                 Institutional                    251
                 Total                            17,515




                                                  T
                 ERC Value                        21234.46



   Total Use by Type (Ac-Ft)
                AF                                           Gallons per Connection Per
                                                                        Day
           1,570.61
                                                                                   8000
        44.67
      935.99
                                                                                                 5586




                                                                      1583
                                 9,478.33
                                                             506
 R
Residential Commercial Industrial Institutional         Residential Commercial   Industrial   Institutional
D


Kearns General Plan: Water Element
Agricultural and Protected Lands
There are no Agricultural Protection Areas
within the City. Kearns is primarily an urban
community. A small portion of the City does
intersect the Utah Lake Distributing
Company service boundary, as shown in
Figure 6. Some residents with property within
the service area may have shares in the
company and access to irrigation water. More
information about the company and
associated water rights and shareholders can
be found at the Division of Water Rights
Online Portal.

Public and Quasi Public Lands
There are not significant amounts of




                                                T
protected or preserved land within the City
limits. There are, however, public or quasi-
public lands that are opportunity areas for
water conservation and education. Because
these areas may be more frequently
trafficked, are often larger than typical
               AF
single-family residential parcels, and because
they are often managed by larger agencies,
retrofitting landscapes in these facilities may
be more attainable and impactful. In Kearns
the following public/quasi-public uses include
parks, administrative buildings, schools, and
other public facilities like the Olympic Oval.
In 2023 KID retrofitted landscaping              Figure 8. Public and Quasi-Public Land
surrounding 2 of their tanks within the city,
exemplifying the potential that some of these lands may have for water-wise landscaping and
the way that these installations can be marketed to the public as viable options.
 R
D


Figure 9. KID Office Tank Landscaping and TLA Tank Site Landscaping (Source: KID)




Kearns General Plan: Water Element
Current and Future Demands in Improvement Districts
Both service districts have unique water use and availability. These population projections are
sourced differently depending on the key factors present, and do not necessarily account for
land use changes that the county may anticipate over the life of this plan. They also account
for the entire service area which goes well beyond the Kearns boundary. Because of this, the
Future Land Use Map is used to clearly illustrate the relationship between the desired future
land uses and the water required to support these uses.

The service districts highlight conservation goals that are shown as per capita water use. These
goals are within the target for the Salt Lake County region’s 2065 goal of 183 gpcd. Based on
land use analysis, the City is already within attainment of both conservation goals highlighted
in the chart below.

 Table 4. Water Conservation Demand and Supply Projections




                                                        T
                            Total                                                                       Projected
                                     Per capita   Conservati                              Projected
 System        Population   Use      Use          on Goal      Population   Capacity      Demand        Demand w
                            (Mgal/                             Projection   (Mgal/year)                 Conservation
                            year)    (gpcd)       (gpcd)                                  (Mgal/year)   (Mgal/year)




 KID




 Taylorsvill
 e-Bennion
                  AF
               56,091       2739.6
                                     147 (2021
                                     – 5 year
                                     average)
                                                  140          76,266
                                                               (2065)
                                                                            3,896         3,897         N/A




 Improvem      67,098       3919.9   156          171          70,362       661.9         Approx.       Approx. 4,900
                                     (2023)                    (2050)                     6,500
 ent
 District




Anticipated Demands in the City
 R
Future Demand Model for the City of Kearns
In order to understand the needs for the City based on the expected future land use, this
element includes a model that projects water use based on the Future Land Use map. The
Future Land Use map provides information about where and how intensely the City can
anticipate growth that will impact its existing water resources. The map below highlights the
areas in the county where the General Plan envisions additional residential, commercial, or
D

industrial growth where it currently does not exist, thus adding additional connections to the
existing water providers.




Kearns General Plan: Water Element
                                             T
               AF
 R
D


Figure 10. Anticipated Future Water Demand

Future annual and per capita water usage for Kearns was modeled at the parcel level, with
projections informed by future land use designations, an Areas of Change analysis, and
established water use factors. Each parcel was modeled to represent both existing and
anticipated future uses, accounting for changes in household and employment numbers where
applicable.


Kearns General Plan: Water Element
The areas of change analysis evaluated development potential by cataloging vacant parcels
and identifying redevelopment opportunities. These areas provide the foundation for predicting
where future water demand may increase due to new construction or shifts to higher-intensity
land uses. In Kearns, redevelopment potential was informed by recent redevelopment trends in
key corridors and activity centers.

Water demand calculations were based on a future land use crosswalk table, which translated
each land use into an equivalent residential unit (ERU) factor expressed in gallons per day
(GPD). These ERUs are estimates of number of connections different residential and
employment uses have. A standard factor of 240 gallons per dwelling unit per day was applied
for ERUs.

    •   Residential land uses were modeled using ERUs per dwelling unit.

    •   Employment-based land uses were modeled using ERUs per developed acre.




                                               T
    •   Mixed-use designations applied both methods, incorporating ERUs for dwelling units
        and ERUs for employment per acre.
 Table 5. Water Usage Factors
         Future Land Use                        Residential                         Employment
 Agriculture   AF                    0                                    3 per developed acre
 Commercial                          0                                    6.6 per developed acre
                                     0                                    4 per developed acre
 Historic Commercial
 Industrial                          0                                    6.8 per developed acre
 Institutional                       0                                    2.5 per developed acre
 Mixed-Use                           0.7 per dwelling unit                10 per developed acre
 Multi-Family Residential            0.7 per dwelling unit                0
 Neighborhood Commercial             0.7 per dwelling unit                5 per developed acre
 Open Space                          0                                    0
 Recreation                          0                                    6.4 per developed acre
                                     1 per dwelling unit                  0
 R
 Residential
 Transportation                      0                                    0
 Utilities                           0                                    0.5 per developed acre


Parcel-Level Calculation Methods
D

The Community Water Projections model is a GIS model that considers 5 geospatial
parameters: parcels, land use, building square footage, acres, and areas of change. Parcels
came from Salt Lake County’s Assessors data, building footprints came from an imagery
analysis (to calculate building square footage), land use came from the Municipal Water
Districts, and acres were calculated through parcel geometries.

Residential Parcel-Level Usage
The Residential Water method calculates water usage for both indoor and outdoor use. Below
are the following equations to total each parcel’s water usage:

        Residential Total Gallons Per Day = Households × (ERU per HH by LU) × (Residential GPD per
                                                   ERU)

               Split: Residential Outdoor Use = Residential Total Water Use × Outdoor Share %




Kearns General Plan: Water Element
                        Residential Indoor = Residential Indoor – Residential Outdoor

The model first calculates existing water usage through the areas of change analysis
identifying which parcels are currently developed and applying their land use factors. Then the
model calculates future development, again through areas of change, by looking at vacant and
redevelopment parcel potential. Parcels receive density additions based on their development
potential and their future land use factors. Once the model calculates total water usage for
each parcel to account for current and future trends, the model breaks the total water usage
into an indoor and outdoor water share. The “Outdoor Share” is a percentage estimate of how
much total water is used outdoor versus indoor. The model currently assumes 65% of water is
used indoors and 35% is used outdoors for residential.

Employment Parcel-Level Usage

Water usage for employment parcels were also calculated for outdoor and indoor use, as well
as distinguishing the distribution of water based on the estimated number of employees per
1000 sq/ft or by developed acre. Below is the following methodology for this analysis.




                                                T
  Employment Total Gallons Per Day = (Non-res Building Sqft / 1,000) × (ERU per 1000 ksf by LU) ×
                                  (Employment GPD per ERU)

                   Employment Outdoor = Total Employment x Outdoor Share %
              AF  Employment Indoor = Total Employment – Employment Outdoor

 Employment Total Gallons Per Day (i.e. Recreation) =Acres x (ERU per acre) x (Employment GPD per
                                                ERU)

Similar to residential parcels, the model calculates the existing and future water usage via the
Areas of Change, projecting water usage based on the likelihood of development on a parcel in
the future. However, employment projections differ in that the projected water demand is tied
to built area (1000 Sqft. blocks, “ksf”) using an ERU per ksf factor, with an exception to
Agriculture and Recreation parcels, which remain acreage based. The “Outdoor Share” for
employment-based land uses has a base of 60% indoor water use and 40% outdoor water use.

For parcels with mixed-use designations, both residential and employment calculations were
 R
applied. For example, a “Mixed-Use” designation used the Multi-Family Residential ERU (0.7
per dwelling unit) alongside the Mixed-Use Employment ERU (10 per developed acre) to
calculate the parcel’s combined daily water use.

 Table 6. Kearns Future Water Projections by Industry
 Future Land       Total GPD      Employme      Employment            Residential       Residential
 Use                              nt Indoor     Outdoor GPD           Indoor GPD        Outdoor
                                  GPD                                                   GPD
D

   Commercial        379,494.37    128,344.45      85,562.96            107,631.53       57,955.44
     Industrial       112,471.65    67,482.99      44,988.66                 -                -
   Institutional     597,716.26    358,629.75     239,086.50                 -                -
    Mixed Use          7,576.11       1,176.21       784.14              3,905.09         2,102.74
   Multi-Family
    Residential      62,496.00            -             -               40,622.40        21,873.60
  Neighborhood
   Commercial        101,972.20     12,842.48       8,561.65             54,038.77       29,097.80
    Recreation        94,478.59      9,447.86      85,030.73                  -              -
    Residential     2,346,493.48          -             -              1,525,220.76     821,272.72
    Total GPD       3,702,698.67   577,923.74     464,014.65            1,731,418.55    932,302.30


The total share of the water districts supply that is used within the city limits is subject to
change, however the combined total capacity of both districts is 30,504 ac-ft. per year or 8,542



Kearns General Plan: Water Element
Mgal per year. The City’s projected demand of 1,351 Mgal per year is approximately 16% of
the total combined supply.

Assuming that the City grows as the Future Land Use map anticipates and maintains relatively
consistent water use the per capita water use in 2065 will be approximately 121.6 gallons per
capita per day by the year 2065. This is well within the targets of the conservation plans. This
assumes that the maximum build out described in the General Plan is realized by the year
2065. Future updates to the General Plan and the Future Land Use Map should be analyzed
with similar methods to identify any changes in land use expectations as they change in the
future.

As identified, the city is within attainment of the conservation goals identified in the
Conservation Plans. Conservation beyond the identified goals is important and should be a
goal for Kearns and all that are served by both Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District and
KID. Both Conservation plans highlight a supply deficit in their conservation plans if
conservation goals are not met. Every drop counts for these communities to ensure adequate
supply and to reduce the costs required to expand water supply. Additionally, the region as a




                                              T
whole is directly related to the Great Salt Lake. Water that is removed from the system is
water that is ultimately not flowing to the Great Salt Lake. No community is solely responsible
for this regional feature, however, air quality and other environmental conditions for the entire
region will be impacted by lower lake levels. The Utah Department of Environmental Quality
monitors the health of the Lake and the Region. The State also created the Office of the Great
              AF
Salt Lake Commissioner in 2023 to consider many factors that affect the Lake and the
potential outcomes of different regional actions, including the conservation of water in
communities within the watershed. Water providers and cities and counties should continue to
monitor these resources to understand changes to conservation goals and the benefits they
may have for the region’s environment.
 R
D


Kearns General Plan: Water Element
Conservation & Protection Today
The water districts go to great lengths to ensure quality water sources that meet the demands
of their customers. The districts maintain their own programming, set payment structures, and
monitor water quality independently of the City. These programs help ensure that Kearns
residents and businesses can access enough reliable and safe water. The City through its land
use regulations can help progress the efforts of the water districts. The analysis above shows
that Kearns future land use map
encourages a pattern of development
that will ultimately not put additional
strain on water providers, and the City
can encourage new development also
progress water conservation,
especially through their land use code.

Programming Beyond the




                                              T
Municipality

Protecting Kearns’ Water Sources
Figure 7. illustrates the designated
culinary source protection zones.
These areas are regulated to prevent
              AF
concentrated pollution sources that
could compromise drinking water
quality. The primary focus of
protections relates to onsite
wastewater treatment and disposal,
though restrictions also extend to
potential risks from septic systems,
hazardous materials, and fertilizer
application. Kearns and Taylorsville-
Bennion maintain an annual water
quality report, ensuring that water in
the system meets all state and federal
 R
drinking water standards and
guidelines. Both water providers have
wholesale contracts with the Jordan
Valley Water Conservancy District,
which also takes steps to protect and
monitor water sources.
                                           Figure 11. Ground Water Protection Zones
D

Utah Water System Efficiency and Water
Loss Control Program

The Utah Water System Efficiency and Water Loss Control Program, launched in 2016
by the Division of Water Resources (DWR) in collaboration with the Intermountain
Section of the American Water Works Association (IMS-AWWA) and Cavanaugh, was
created to help utilities analyze and manage non-revenue water more effectively. The
program promoted the adoption of best practices for water loss control statewide. As
one of three districts in the pilot program, the KID gained valuable insight into its
system efficiency and continues to apply this training to refine leak detection and
water loss monitoring. Current practices include:

    •   Waterwise landscaping
    •   Comprehensive metering and monitoring


Kearns General Plan: Water Element
    •   Accounting for construction-related water use
    •   Tracking of non-metered water activities
    •   Ongoing testing, maintenance, and documentation of infrastructure
    •   Annual acoustical leak detection
    •   Main Water Replacement Programs
    •   Systematic recording within GIS system

Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District Water Efficiency Standards
KID has provided significant input and consultation into the development of the Jordan Valley
Water Conservation District (JVWCD) Water Efficiency Standards through the representation
on the JVWCD Board of Trustees and via direct input with JVWCD staff. The water efficiency
standards require conservation standards for indoor plumbing and outdoor landscaping across
land use types and new landscaping construction for new homeowners KID has worked with
Kearns, West Valley City, West Jordan City, and Taylorsville City to adopt these standards.




                                              T
Water Conservation Rate Structure
As part of the district’s conservation efforts, KID has adopted a tiered water rate structure
where the cost of water significantly increases as water use exceeds basic needs. In 1994, the
Kearns Improvement District adopted an increasing block water rate schedule. The following
table shows the District’s 2022 and 2025-Tierd Water Rate Structure. The Tiered Water Rate
structure is believed to be one of the most significant measures contributing to the reduction of
               AF
water use in the District.

Conservation Programs
KID has taken an active role in promoting long-term water conservation by implementing a
variety of programs and community-focused initiatives. These efforts are designed to reduce
water use, increase public awareness, and encourage efficient practices across the district. Key
programs include:

    •   Hiring a part-time water conservation programs coordinator
    •   Conducting public information and education campaigns
    •   Establishing a conservation demonstration garden
 R
    •   Offering a low-flow toiled giveaway program
    •   Distributing reduced-flow showerheads
    •   Providing landscape hose nozzle timers
    •   Conservation messaging on customer bills
    •   Residential and commercial water audits
D

Advanced Metering

KID is investing in advanced metering infrastructure as part of its long-term water conservation
strategy. As the community continues to grow, efficient water management is critical to
meeting future demand. Advanced metering allows the District and its customers to better
understand consumption patterns. By providing real-time data, the system encourages more
mindful water use and supports conservation practices by encouraging efficient water use. This
tool not only helps protect water resources today but also positions the District to
accommodate future growth while protecting the reliability of its water supply.

Conservation Plan Updates

Both Kearns and Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement Districts are committed to actively
maintaining their Water Conservation Plans to be current and responsive to changing
conditions. Updated every five years in accordance with state requirements, these plans use the


Kearns General Plan: Water Element
latest water use data and growth projections to refine conservation goals, evaluate program
effectiveness, and identify new strategies for water efficiency and conservation. By integrating
tools such as advanced metering, public outreach and education, rebates, and partnerships with
local organizations, the districts ensure that conservation remains central to meeting future
demand. Each update also serves as an opportunity to increase transparency and engage the
public, providing residents with a clear roadmap for sustainable water use and encouraging
active participation in protecting local resources.

Conservation Best Management Practices

Kearns and Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement Districts both have an ongoing commitment to
water conservation for the future by following Utah Division of Water Resources’ best
management practices. These practices include:

    •   Appointment of Conservation Director and Committee to help research, coordinate,
        create, and implement public information campaigns, programs, and incentives.




                                              T
    •   Provide public messaging, materials, and resources to customers on water conservation
        practices.
    •   Hold in-person or remote events to educate and train customers on water conservation
        practices and technologies that can be implemented.
   •    Provide programs for landscape consultation, water budgeting, audits, and
              AF
        infrastructure retrofitting and replacement.
   •    Offer rebates, incentives, or rewards for water conservation practices.

Reducing Water Waste
Kearns Improvement District identifies system
improvements. These include grey and green
infrastructure. The District maintains a public
portal highlighting major projects that move the
City and the district toward their water
conservation goals.
 R
                                                   Figure 12. Kearns Improvement District Project Portal
D

The Kearns Land Use Connection

Ordinances/Standards
While Kearns and Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement Districts do not have direct land use
authority they do work with Salt Lake County, Kearns, West Jordan, and surrounding
communities to promote water-wise landscaping. In 2022, KID adopted water efficiency
landscaping standards that align with the Localscapes concepts. The water efficiency standards
set requirements for indoor and outdoor water use.

The Kearns landscape ordinance reinforces the LocalScapes elements that have been
developed and are reevaluated by the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District. These
standards are not only required by the Kearns Improvement District and the Kearns zoning
ordinance in new development and redevelopment, but they also allow residents to apply for
rebate programs that can provide reimbursements for park strip plantings, front and side yard



Kearns General Plan: Water Element
landscape installations, and even classes offered at the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy
Conservation Garden Park.

Kearns subdivision and landscape ordinance was adopted in 2023 and was based closely on
guidance from the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District Localscapes concept. The
ordinance primarily applies to new development, or to building additions that significantly
change the building footprint. Key requirements for residential landscaping include creating a
central open space in front and back yards, locating gathering and activity areas outside this
central zone, using paths and hardscape materials instead of turf for these gathering spaces,
and limiting lawn coverage to no more than 35% of the total landscaped area or 250 square
feet in single-family residential landscapes. Through these standards, the City encourages
functional, attractive, and low-water-use landscapes, supported by educational programs and
incentive opportunities offered by the Kearns Improvement District and the Jordan Valley
Conservancy District.




                                               T
              AF
 R
D


          Figure 13. Key Components of Landscape Requirements in Residential Development




Kearns General Plan: Water Element
The LocalScapes concept has evolved over time, but centers on functional spaces, separation of
irrigation areas into hydrozones, reduction of turfgrass to functional hardscapes and paths, the
use of native or waterwise plants for landscaping, and regular maintenance. The image above
highlights an example of design elements required in new residential development in Kearns.
Multi-family and commercial uses are also subject to water efficiency standards, including the
use of native or water-wise plantings, turfgrass reductions, and efficient irrigation systems.
Commercial and multi-family development have higher restrictions on turfgrass coverage (no
more than 20% of the total landscaped area may be turfgrass). These spaces are also required
to adhere to the landscaping standards in rear yards as well as front and side yards. Multi
family housing is generally understood to have lower per capita water use than single-family
residential because each dwelling unit shares landscaped areas and other recreation amenities.

Development of any kind is required to meet the water efficiency standards for the City. The
maximum amount of water that can be used for landscaping is 15 inches per square foot (as an
average of the entire landscaped area). For example, if a lot is 8,000 square feet it may have
approximately 4,000 square feet of landscaped area after removing all buildings, sidewalks,




                                               T
and drives. The total water use for the entire property is a maximum of 37,479 gallons per year
or 102 gallons per day. This further incentivizes the use of hydrozones, or areas in the
landscaping that have similar water needs and unique irrigation schedules, allowing property
owners to use relatively more water in turfgrass areas or on other non-native plantings while
reducing the average water use in areas of lower water use. To better understand yearly water
needs for certain plant species, the Utah State Extension has an easy to use irrigation
               AF
calculator that highlights differences in water use across different types of plantings.
Vegetables and fruits, newly planted and annual plants, and cool season turfgrass generally
have the highest water use. The calculator and other resources highlight the fact that
establishing landscapes requires more water. Depending on species and location different
landscape installations take different amounts of time for establishment. Meaning that root
systems develop fully and can maintain growth with fewer additional resources. In the long
term these water-wise installations provide water conservation and cost savings for property
owners, but before plants are fully established all landscape installations will require relatively
more water. Often establishment may range from one to 3 seasons.

The state and other agencies also provide guidance
on the landscaping of park strips. The most
significant requirement is that park strips less than 8
 R
feet in width may not be planted with turfgrass.
Kearns’ landscape ordinance requires 50 percent
landscape coverage in park strips regardless of
size, and requires trees to be planted every 25
feet along the lot frontage for park strips 8 feet
or wider. Street trees in park strips provide
beautification and health benefits, by lowering the
D

local temperature, they may also increase property values. The
Kearns landscape ordinance provides guidance on the types of
trees that may be planted and a list of prohibited trees. Options
for park strip plantings are given below to assist property
owners in the installation of landscaping that meets the        Figure 12. Overview of Park Strip Requirements
City’s requirements.




Kearns General Plan: Water Element
Goals and Strategies
Some of these strategies and actions are associated with lands that have dynamic ownership
structures. The City and the Municipal Services District should work closely with Salt Lake
County and other collaborators to enact these goals and policies. While some of the physical
improvements included in the action plan note public lands, some public lands are owned and
managed by Salt Lake County. This plan does not govern the county’s management of their
public lands within the city, but should act as guides for any coordination that takes place
between the City and the County in the provision of public land.

 Goal: Reduce outdoor water usage throughout the City.
 Objective: Ensure that the City’s zoning ordinances effectively advance water conservation
 goals.
 Actions                    Responsible Timeline        Cost      Metric          Resources
                            Parties
 Regularly update the       MSD PDS,       Ongoing      Staff     NA              Jordan
 ordinance to reflect the   Kearns PC,                  time                      Valley
 most recent guidance       Kearns CC                                             Conservancy




                                             T
 from the Utah State                                                              District
 University, Jordan Valley                                                        Conservation
 Conservancy District,                                                            Programs
 and other reputable                                                              Utah State
 sources.                                                                         University
              AF                                                                  Water-Wise
                                                                                  Landscape
                                                                                  resources
 Regularly evaluate         MSD PDS,       Ongoing      Staff     NA
 compliance with the        Kearns PC,                  time
 City’s landscape           Kearns CC
 ordinance.
 Update the landscape       MSD PDS,       Ongoing      Staff     NA
 ordinance to encourage     Kearns PC,                  time
 alternative turf options.  Kearns CC
 Provide options for        MSD PDS,       Ongoing      Staff     NA
 landscape design in the    Kearns PC,                  time
 General Plan facilitating Kearns CC
 compliance with the
 City’s ordinances.
 R
 Reduce water waste in City-owned spaces.
 Where feasible contract    Kearns         Short        $         Number of       Qwel
 landscaping to             Public         term                   contracts or    Resources
 landscapers with Qwel      Works                                 public works
 certifications or other                                          staff
 water efficient                                                  members
 landscape education.                                             with Qwel
                                                                  certifications
D

                                                                  (or other
                                                                  relevant
                                                                  certifications/
                                                                  education)
 Prioritize sites for       MSD PDS,       Short        Staff     NA
 retrofitting landscaping   Kearns         term         time
 to highlight native        Public
 species and other water- Works
 efficient landscape
 elements.
 Retrofit landscapes in     Kearns         Mid term $$
 publicly owned land to     Public
 emphasize water-wise       Works
 principles.
 Where possible replace     Kearns         Mid term $$
 cool season turf with      Public
 alternative turfgrasses in Works,


Kearns General Plan: Water Element
 pubic spaces (including     SLCo Parks
 buffalo grass and           and
 fescues).                   Recreation
 Monitor water use over      Kearns       Mid term Staff
 time to identify water      Public                   time
 conservation post           Works,
 landscape installation.     SLCo Parks
                             and
                             Recreation
 Objective: Educate private property owners, providing resources that emphasize landscape
 options that are beautiful and conserve water.
 Market resources from       Kearns PC, Ongoing       $         Number of      KID
 the Kearns Improvement MSD PDS,                                subscribers    Conservation
 District and the Jordan     JVWCD,                             or viewers of  Programs
 Valley Conservancy          KID, TBID                          marketing      Jordan
 District including                                             material on    Valley
 conservation gardens                                           City channels Water
 and standard landscape                                         including      Conservancy




                                            T
 plans.                                                         website and    District
                                                                social media. Programs
 Incorporate                 Kearns PC, Ongoing       $         Number of      Kearns
 Improvement District        MSD PDS,                           conservation   Improvement
 resources in city           JVWCD,                             classes or     District
 programming and             KID, TBID                          programs per Conservation
 spaces, including
              AF                                                year           Programs
 conservation events and
 classes.
 Goal: Advance collaboration with service providers.
 Objective: Engage the improvement districts in development review.
 Include improvement         Kearns PC, Ongoing       Staff     NA
 district representation in MSD PDS,                  time
 pre application meetings JVWCD,
 for large multi family or   KID, TBID
 mixed-use development
 that may have high
 water demand.
 Engage improvement          Kearns PC, Long          Staff     NA
 districts in all updates to MSD PDS,     term        time
 the landscaping             JVWCD,
 R
 ordinance.                  KID, TBID
 Engage improvement          Kearns PC, Long          Staff     NA
 districts in future         MSD PDS,     term        time
 updates to the General      JVWCD,
 Plan, particularly the      KID, TBID
 Water Element and
 Land Use Chapters.
D


Kearns General Plan: Water Element
