                                  Planning and Development Services
                                  860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300 • Taylorsville, UT 84123
                                  Phone: (385) 910-5600




                         Kearns Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

                   Monday, November 3, 2025, 6:00 P.M.
Location
Microsoft Teams
https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-
join/19%3ameeting_YjAzZmNjM2QtZTZhMC00MGIzLWJjZTAtZjY1MTc5NWYxYmZh%40
thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%22fac3e0b8-c4a6-4120-b366-
ee6cb2fb76a8%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22f8a001a5-21cc-482a-9f5a-682bacd87641%22%7d
Meeting ID: 293 112 273 219 2
Passcode: gT7zL35K
Dial in by phone
+1 213-357-4434,,100073252# United States, Los Angeles
Find a local number
Phone conference ID: 100 073 252#

Anchor Location       KEARNS ATHLETIC TRAINING AND EVENT CENTER
                      5658 SOUTH COUGAR LANE
                      MEETING ROOM
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                    BUSINESS MEETING

   1) Welcome and approval of the agenda. (Motion/Voting)
   2) Commissioner Discussion and Staff Assignments: this standing agenda item allows
      Planning Commissioners the opportunity to raise and discuss important issues related to
      current and long range planning in Kearns. The Commission may direct assignments to
      planning staff related to discussion items. (Discussion and Staff Direction: Planning Staff)
   3) Approval of August 4, and October 6, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.
      (Motion/Voting)
   4) Rules and Procedures amendments and updates. Counsel: Nathan Bracken (Discussion)

November 3, 2025                             Page 1 of 2                                AGENDA – KEARNS
   5) Other Business Items. (As Needed)

                                     PUBLIC HEARING(S)

OAM2025-001501 - Consideration of an ordinance amending Title 18 Subdivisions and Title 19
Zoning to: eliminate reclamation bond requirements; bring performance and warranty bond
procedures, and final disposition and release requirements into compliance with recent legislation;
eliminate fees in lieu of the installation of subdivision improvements; eliminate the requirement
for any entity to sign construction plans if that entity cannot be required to sign a final plat under
Utah Code; eliminate language allowing the City to withhold permits or occupancy for the failure
to install private landscaping; clarify the lot sizes for internal ADU's, attached ADU's, detached
ADU's and clarifying the number of occupants allowed in an ADU; clarify that animal rights are
only available to lots with at least 20,000 square feet; amending the side and rear setbacks for
buildings in Manufacturing zones; and adopting additional definitions to help the public and staff
interpret     the    subdivision     and    zoning      ordinances.    Planner:      Brian     Tucker
(Discussion/Recommendation)

                                            ADJOURN




November 3, 2025                              Page 2 of 2                           AGENDA – KEARNS
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



November 3, 2025                                      Page 1 of 1                                   AGENDA – KEARNS
                                                       Planning and Development Services
                                                       2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                       Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674



   **Notice of this meeting was mailed to affected entities, posted at the anchor location, and noticed to the Utah
          Public Notice Website July 23, 2025 to https://www.utah.gov/pmn/sitemap/notice/1011385.html**

                                          MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                  KEARNS PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                     Monday, August 4, 2025, 6:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 2 minutes                               *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 4                                          found on the State and County websites, or from Planning
                                                                           & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Taylor

                                                  ATTENDANCE
                                 Public     Business
        Commissioners                                     Absent                                                Public      Business
                                  Mtg         Mtg                               Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                                 Mtg          Mtg
      David Taylor (Chair)         x           x
           Joy Nelson              x           x                                   Wendy Gurr                      x            x
         Laura Koester             x           x                                 Curtis Woodward                   x            x
       Michael Reynolds            x           x                                  Bianca Paulino                   x            x
    Gray Thomas (Vice Chair)                                x                     Nathan Bracken                   x            x



                                                   BUSINESS MEETING

                                               Meeting began at – 6:01 p.m.
    1) Welcome and Approval of the Agenda. (Motion/Voting)

        Commissioner Taylor read the Chairs Opening Statement.

        Commissioner Nelson motioned to approve the agenda, Commissioner Reynolds seconded that
        motion.

    2) Commissioner Discussion and Staff Assignments: this standing agenda item allows Planning
       Commissioners the opportunity to raise and discuss important issues related to current and long
       range planning in Kearns Metro Township. The Commission may direct assignments to planning
       staff related to discussion items. (Discussion and Staff Direction: Planning Staff)

        Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding coordination calls in advance. Usually
        two weeks in advance, as most things require noticing. Have the pre-meeting earlier to have enough
        time to get documentation drafted. Current meeting doesn’t allow enough time, move back after
        each meeting and coordinate with 30 days’ notice is fair time. Ms. Gurr will send a poll.

    3) Approval of May 5, and July 7, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
       Motion: To approve May 5, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.

Kearns Planning Commission – August 4, 2025 – Meeting Summary                                                            Page 1 of 3
                Motion by: Commissioner Nelson
                2nd by: Commissioner Reynolds
                Vote: Commissioners voted unanimously in favor (of commissioners present)
        Motion: To approve July 7, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.
              Motion by: Commissioner Nelson
              2nd by: Commissioner Reynolds
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimously in favor (of commissioners present)

    4) Other Business Items. (As Needed)
       Confirmed the September minute would be the third Monday in September.


                                           PUBLIC HEARING(S)

                                         Hearing began at – 6:11 p.m.
OAM2025-001456 - Consideration of an ordinance amending Title 19 of the Kearns Municipal Code to
allow for farmers markets, flea markets, and swap meets as permitted uses in the commercial and public
facility and institution zones. Planner: Bianca Paulino (Discussion/Recommendation)

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Long-Range Planner Bianca Paulino provided an analysis
of Title 19 amendments.

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding the different definitions and zones, allowable
space and allowed size, C-1 and C-2 differences, RDA and business relocation. Revitalization efforts are
to draw people in for existing and new businesses and learn about the town center area. It would be great
in the shaded area at the oval for the farmers’ market. Garage sales.

Commissioner Reynolds motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Nelson seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Citizen
Name: Roger Snow
Address: 5977 South Parkwood Dr
Comments: Mr. Snow said he has been coming to planning commission meetings for 17 years. Here when
we did PF and PI, the reason when there are for sale in parks. Recreation and higher learning. Problems
with swap and flea markets it doesn’t generate tax revenue, no tax taken. Landlocked and when they come
up need to get commercial, loves farmers markets, traditionally done in parks on the weekends. Get with
SLCo and talk. Being weekends only it is tough to set up shop permanently. Swap meet should go and pay
rent on the property and act as a business. 100% commercial, proper, good, long-lasting and need to do the
RDA and get businesses who want to stay. Looking at what still needs to be done is a lot before it comes
back, explained and brought here.

Speaker # 2: Kearns community council
Name: Paula Larson
Address: 5134 South 4180 West
Comments: Ms. Larson said she has been here since birth. Asked to express concerns, no swap meets, or
flea markets allowed. Been to the redwood swap meet and although people are nice, there is a criminal
element, and we don’t need that. Echoes Rogers’ comments. Need good commercial businesses that will

Kearns Planning Commission – August 4, 2025 – Meeting Summary                                  Page 2 of 3
thrive. Farmers markets are good and seasonal. KCC feels we need good business here and these are not.
Become viable business, rent, and obtain insurance. Farmers market if it’s run well.

Speaker # 3: Citizen
Name: Janet Nordin
Address: 5137 South Jedediah Drive
Comments: Ms. Nordin said echo a lot of the same sentiments. Don’t see entities bringing in sales tax
revenue to reduce property tax expenses. Another concern is additional law enforcement and traffic
management costs and will it cost the city more for organization. May be some demand and not sure of the
economic benefit, nor do we have an area here to make feasible.

Speaker # 4: Citizen
Name: Darin Nordin
Address: 5137 South Jedediah Drive
Comments: Mr. Nordin said the redwood swap meet vendors begged the city where they are going to go
and city leaders were not willing to help relocate. It was not a revenue for the city and reiterate the economic
development and need to look at the big picture and reach out to developers who want to come to the city.
West Valley economic director said Kearns needs to look at the Olympics coming and explore the
amphitheater. We need to consider the new hospital going near the city borders. He would like to see mixed
use and offices and there is a lot of potential and need to come together as a city and figure out what
businesses we want.

Commissioner Taylor read the citizen email comments received (attached).

Commissioner Koester motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Reynolds seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Commissioners, staff, and counsel had a brief discussion regarding shoring up definitions and next steps
regarding business licensing, sales tax and revenue, need a sales tax ID number with business license and
business license fee. Community market approved, but ambiguity and provide clear authority to continue.
The city doesn’t make money on the fees charged, only the sales tax.

Motion: To continue file #OAM2025-001456 Consideration of an ordinance amending Title 19 of the
Kearns Municipal Code to allow for farmers markets, flea markets, and swap meets as permitted uses in the
commercial and public facility and institution zones to the September 15th planning commission meeting to
allow staff time to redefine definitions for types of markets and zones.
        Motion by: Commissioner Nelson
        2nd by: Commissioner Koester
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimously in favor (of commissioners present)


Commissioner Reynolds adjourned.

                                          MEETING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 7:03 p.m.




Kearns Planning Commission – August 4, 2025 – Meeting Summary                                       Page 3 of 3
From:              Admir Djeko
To:                Wendy Gurr
Subject:           Public Hearing - OAM2025-001456
Date:              Friday, August 1, 2025 1:28:54 PM



   You don't often get email from vrbasbihbanjaluka@gmail.com. Learn why this is important

I would like to voice my opposition to this proposal. I think it is a horrible idea to open up
commercial and other areas of the city to open air markets. If you want a farmers market let’s
set up a place in a city park or somewhere and have one. This is on par with other
communities. But to open this up to swap meets and open air markets is a terrible idea. Just
imagine the traffic, the trash left behind and unsightly feel and look to the city if you approve
this. Vote no on this one if you care about your city. This will not increase taxes in the city as
claimed in the report. As we all know these stands mostly operate as cash only businesses.
DD
                                                       Planning and Development Services
                                                       2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                       Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674



   **Notice of this meeting was mailed to affected entities, posted at the anchor location, and noticed to the Utah
      Public Notice Website September 23, 2025 to https://www.utah.gov/pmn/sitemap/notice/1025203.html**

                                          MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                  KEARNS PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                     Monday, October 6, 2025, 6:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 3 minutes                               *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 0                                          found on the State and County websites, or from Planning
                                                                           & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Taylor

                                                  ATTENDANCE
                                 Public     Business
        Commissioners                                     Absent                                                Public      Business
                                  Mtg         Mtg                               Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                                 Mtg          Mtg
      David Taylor (Chair)         x           x
           Joy Nelson              x           x                                   Wendy Gurr                      x            x
         Laura Koester             x           x                                   Brian Tucker                    x            x
       Michael Reynolds            x           x                                  Bianca Paulino                   x            x
    Gray Thomas (Vice Chair)       x           x                                  Nathan Bracken                   x            x




                                                   BUSINESS MEETING

                                               Meeting began at – 6:01 p.m.
    1) Welcome and Approval of the Agenda. (Motion/Voting)

        Commissioner Taylor read the Chairs Opening Statement.

        Commissioners motioned to approve the agenda, eliminating number three, approval of August
        minutes in the business meeting.

    2) Commissioner Discussion and Staff Assignments: this standing agenda item allows Planning
       Commissioners the opportunity to raise and discuss important issues related to current and long
       range planning in Kearns Metro Township. The Commission may direct assignments to planning
       staff related to discussion items. (Discussion and Staff Direction: Planning Staff)

    3) Other Business Items. (As Needed)

        Discussed working on Rules and Procedures. Mr. Bracken will send examples out to the
        commissioners, and they can provide comments and suggestions. Will discuss the Rules and
        Procedures at the November meeting. Timeframes for getting items out and following the processes.
        Send out the training slides and audio on Smith Hartvigsen and Taylorsville City training.


Kearns Planning Commission – October 6, 2025 – Meeting Summary                                                           Page 1 of 2
                                           PUBLIC HEARING(S)

                                         Hearing began at – 6:17 p.m.
OAM2025-001490 – General Plan update to adopt the Water Element Plan. Planner: Bianca Paulino
(Discussion/Recommendation)

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Long Range Planner Bianca Paulino provided an analysis
of the general plan water element amendment.

Commissioners and counsel had a brief discussion regarding Jordan valley water and updates, intent,
potential funding options to improve water lines as the Olympics get closer, alternative landscaping,
evaporative cooling, turf and waterwise landscaping, sprinkling systems, JVW availability, block water
planning, and meeting regional goal.

Commissioner Thomas motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Reynolds seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

No one from the public is present to speak. Commissioner Taylor read Greg Anderson’s email comment
(attached).

Commissioner Reynolds motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Thomas seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding editing.

Motion: To recommend file #OAM2025-001490 General Plan update to adopt the Water Element Plan for
approval to the Kearns Council with subjected Scribner error corrections.
       Motion by: Commissioner Reynolds
       2nd by: Commissioner Thomas
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimously in favor (of commissioners present)

Commissioner Thomas adjourned.

                                          MEETING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 7:04 p.m.




Kearns Planning Commission – October 6, 2025 – Meeting Summary                             Page 2 of 2
From:              Greg Anderson
To:                Wendy Gurr
Cc:                Riley Astill; James Woodruff
Subject:           General Plan Water Element Plan
Date:              Monday, October 6, 2025 8:35:41 AM
Attachments:       Outlook-1awcdpyr.png
                   Outlook-hictmrme.png



   You don't often get email from ganderson@kidwater4ut.gov. Learn why this is important

Wendy,
I have read through the General Plan Water Element Plan document to be heard by the Planning
Commission tonight for the City of Kearns. On behalf of the Kearns Improvement District, I support
the document as presented.
Respectfully Submitted,

F. Greg Anderson, P.E.

General Manager/CEO




P.O. Box 18608

5350 West 5400 South, Kearns, UT 84118

801-968-1011
From:           David Taylor
To:             Nathan Bracken
Cc:             gthomas; mreynolds; jnelson; lkoester; Wendy Gurr; Bianca Paulino; Brian Tucker
Subject:        Re: Sample Rules of Order for Planning Commission
Date:           Tuesday, October 21, 2025 8:54:04 PM




Dear Commissioners,

I hope this message finds you all well.

As many of you know, I previously initiated a discussion regarding updates
to the current Kearns Planning and Zoning bylaws. Since Nathan provided
us with copies of our existing bylaws along with those from other counties, I
trust you’ve had a chance to review the materials.

The purpose of this email is to help move the review process forward. If
there are specific items you would like to suggest for revision or areas that
warrant closer examination, now is the ideal time to share your thoughts.

After analyzing the various bylaws, I’ll admit the volume of information was
somewhat overwhelming. Finding time to thoroughly review and identify
potential improvements has been a challenge, but I’ve outlined a few initial
suggestions below to help start the discussion.

I encourage everyone to “Reply All” with your own comments or
recommendations within this email thread so that Nathan and his firm can
easily compile and review them. Please note that all commissioner feedback
should be submitted by October 27th, which I believe is a reasonable
timeline

Respectfully,

David Taylor.

My Notes:

       1. I would like to create a more organized and structured process
       for our meetings, I would suggest that we add the following new
       sections or heavily revise existing ones:
           A dedicated Section on Duties of the Chair: Incorporate specific
           responsibilities as seen in Ogden and Francis:

                   To move the agenda along, hold down redundancy by
         limiting the time allowed for comment if necessary, and set
         clear guidelines for public input.
         To rule out of order any testimony or comment which is
         irrelevant, personal, or not pertinent to the matter being
         heard.
         To maintain order at the meetings of the Commission.
         To receive and submit in the proper manner all motions and
         propositions presented by the members.
         To announce the business before the Commission in the
         order in which it is to be acted upon.

2. Creation of a new conflict of Interest and Ethics Section. (I
don't think we have this one, but it could be useful in the future.)

    Adopt a clear set of rules, inspired by Ogden and Francis, to
    ensure ethical conduct and transparency.
         Conflict of Interest: Define that a member with a conflict
         (actual, apparent, or reasonably foreseeable) shall state the
         conflict and withdraw from participation, discussion, and
         voting on that matter.
         Commission Vote on Disqualification: Include a
         procedure where the Commission may vote to decide
         whether a member's requested disqualification is justified.
         Ex Parte Communication: Define ex parte contact
         (communication with an interested party outside of a meeting
         regarding an agenda item) and establish a rule for its
         disclosure.

3. Creation of a new Formal Public Hearing Procedure Section
(This would make it so any one of us knows the procedure of a
public hearing portion of the meeting.)

    The most beneficial addition for better meeting structure is a
    mandatory, step-by-step process for public hearings, similar to
    Springdale's structure:
         Staff Report and summary of findings/recommendations by
         the Supporting Agency staff.
         Presentation of the hearing item by the applicant/proponent.
         Question and Answer Period of the applicant by the
         Planning Commission.
         Motion to Open Public Hearing.
         Public Comment Period (with clear guidelines on time limits
         and decorum, e.g., state name, be brief, do not repeat).
                 Motion to Close Public Hearing (stating that no further
                 public comment is taken).
                 Planning Commission Deliberation and motion/action.

     4. Creation of a Rules of Debate and Final Action section.

           Introduce procedures for motions and deliberation clarity:
                 Explaining the Vote: Allow any member of the Commission
                 desiring to explain his/her vote an opportunity to do so after
                 the vote is taken.
                 Quorum/Voting: Explicitly state the quorum requirement
                 (e.g., a majority of all members) and that all actions require
                 the concurring vote of a majority of the members present
                 (unless stricter rules are adopted).

     5. Lastly a Creation of Amendment to the Rules of Proceedure
     Section

           Add a definitive process for changing the Rules of Procedure,
           ensuring stability and transparency.
                 Procedure for Amendment: Specify that these Rules of
                 Procedure may be amended at any meeting after not less
                 than fourteen (14) days written notice of the proposal,
                 upon a majority vote of all the members of the Commission.
                 Suspension of Rules: Define that no standing rules shall be
                 suspended without the vote of a majority of all members of
                 the Commission.



On Mon, Oct 6, 2025 at 6:20 PM Nathan Bracken <nbracken@shutah.law> wrote:

 Hi everyone:


 Here are the current rules of order and procedure for the Kearns Planning Commission, as
 well as some examples from other cities. Please review them and let know what, if any,
 changes or edits you would like to make to Kearns’ rules.



 The Midvale Planning Commission rules of order and procedure are available here:
 https://midvale.utah.gov/Document%20Center/Agendas%20&%20Minutes/Planning%20&
 %20Zoning%20Commission/PC%20Bylaws%202024.10.29%20Current.pdf.
Please let me know if you have any questions.




                                                                                                                      Nathan
Bracken

SMITH HARTVIGSEN PLLC
257 East 200 South, Suite 500
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
801-413-1600
801-413-1620 fax
877-825-2064 toll free
nbracken@SHUtah.law
www.SmithHartvigsen.law



This e-mail may contain privileged and confidential information intended for the use of the individual or entity named above. If the
reader of this message is not the intended recipient, or the employee or agent responsible to deliver it to the intended recipient, you
are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this communication is strictly prohibited. If you received this
communication in error, please immediately notify sender by telephone or reply e-mail, do not use or disclose the contents to others,
and delete the message and all attachments from your computer, system, and/or network immediately.
                                     Planning Commission Staff Report

Meeting Body: Kearns Planning                    BACKGROUND/ ISSUES TO CONSIDER
Commission
                                     During the 2025 Session, the Utah Legislature adopted House Bill
Meeting Date: November 3rd,          368, which necessitates that the city make certain changes to Title
2025
                                     18 Subdivisions and Title 19 Zoning regarding subdivision
File Number & Project Type:          bonding processes, warranty bond timing, warranty bond
OAM2025-001501   –   Kearns          inspections and releases, and regulating landscape installation
Omnibus    and   HB     368
                                     relative to building permits and certificates of occupancy. In
Amendments
                                     addition, an existing ordinance requires that a signature is
Applicability: Citywide              required on construction plans contrary to Utah Code because it
Planner: Brian Tucker, Planning      has the effect of subjecting an applicant to standards and
Manager                              requirements that are not adopted by Kearns City.
Applicant: Kearns Staff
                                                         PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Key Findings:
                                     The proposed ordinance eliminates the requirement that a
•   House Bill 368 mandated
                                     developer post a reclamation bond prior to beginning
    certain changes to the Kearns
    Subdivision Ordinance,
                                     construction. HB 368 prohibits a city from requiring that a
•   Other amendments clarify the     warranty bond or any other bond be posted prior to a developer
    legislative intent of the        beginning construction on approved subdivision improvements if
    ordinance,                       the developer chooses to complete the installation of those prior
•   Clear definitions of the words   to recording the subdivision plat. HB 368 also prohibits a city from
    and phrases used in titles 18
                                     requiring that the warranty portion of the bond be posted prior
    and 19 are essential to
                                     to the release of the improvement bond. The developer may not
    administering those titles.
                                     record the plat until either the improvements are complete and
Staff Recommendation: The            accepted by the city or the developer posts an improvement
MSD Planning Staff recommend
                                     bond. Cities are required to allow a developer to choose either of
that   the   Kearns   Planning
                                     those two paths.
Commission recommend that the
Council approve the attached         The proposed ordinance amends the procedures and timeframes
ordinance.
                                     for inspecting and releasing improvement bonds to comply with
Exhibits:                            HB368.
    A. Proposed Ordinance
                                     The proposed ordinance eliminates the option of extending the
                                     warranty period for two years to comply with Utah Code 10-9a-
                                     103(27).

                                     The proposed ordinance eliminates Fees in Lieu of required
                                     improvements.



             [OAM2025-001501 / Kearns Omnibus and HB 368 Amendments / November 3, 2025] | Page 1 of 4
The proposed ordinance eliminates a requirement that a water master sign subdivision
improvement construction plans. According to Utah Code 10-9a 509(1)(g), A municipality may
not impose on an applicant who has submitted a complete application a requirement that is
not expressed in Chapter 10-9a-509; a municipal ordinance in effect on the date that the
applicant submits a complete application; or          a municipal specification for public
improvements applicable to a subdivision or development that is in effect on the date that
the applicant submits an application. While the owner of a ditch or canal may be able to
enforce their standards, the city cannot enforce those standards because those standards are
not expressed in municipal ordinance or in standards and specifications adopted by the city.
The requirement for a water master to sign the plans is contrary to Utah Code Chapter 10-
9a-509 because it has the effect of subjecting an applicant to standards and specifications
that are not adopted by Kearns City.

The proposed ordinance clarifies that Internal and Attached Dwelling Units may only be
constructed on single family lots with 6,000 square feet or greater;

The proposed ordinance amends the definition of Commercial Vehicles and clarifies the
circumstances in which Commercial Vehicles may be parked in R-1 and R-2 zones;

The proposed ordinance clarifies that there is a 1 acre minimum for new development in the
A-1 zone, which seemed to be the consensus based on the workshop discussions that lead to
the Title 19 repeal and replace in June 2023;

The proposed ordinance clarifies that a lot must include 20,000 square feet to have "animal
rights";

The proposed ordinance modifies the setback requirements in the M-1 and M-2
(Manufacturing) zones when uses in those zones border on other parcels in the
manufacturing/industrial zones. The setback requirements that Kearns had used as part of
Unincorporated Salt Lake County and later as a Metro Township utilized a lightly adapted
version of the county code, which had no side or rear yard setback requirements. Salt Lake
City and West Valley City also do not have side and rear yard setback requirements for their
manufacturing/industrial zones. West Jordan has setback requirements when adjacent to
commercial and residential zones, but not when manufacturing uses are found in an industrial
park or district. The proposed ordinance eliminated side and rear yard in the the M-1 and M-
2 zones when located in industrial parks or districts. In those relatively rare occasions where
the flex manufacturing zone is located adjacent to potentially incompatible uses a setback is
required depending on the category of the adjacent use; and

The proposed ordinance adds or clarifies the definitions for "Animal Rights", "Alteration",
"Clustering", “Drive Approach”, “Driveway”, Driveway, Cross Access”, “Driveway, Multifamily”,
‘Driveway, Private”, “Driveway, Shared”, “Dwelling”, "Expansion", "Grading", “Hard Surface”,

      [OAM2025-001501 / Kearns Omnibus and HB 368 Amendments / November 3, 2025] | Page 2 of 4
Natural Open Space", "Net Developable Acreage", “Pavement”, “Paved, Road, Private”,
"Retaining Wall", "Site Plan", "Slope", "Stream, Ephemeral", "Stream, Perennial", "Stream
Corridor", “Streat, Private”, "Substantial Economic Hardship", "Undevelopable", and "Waiver".



                               STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that:

   1. House Bill 368 was adopted by the Utah Legislature during its 2025 regular session,

   2. This bill mandated that cities no longer require bonds to be posted prior to
      constructing subdivision improvements unless the developer wants to record the final
      subdivision plat prior to constructing those improvements,

   3. The bill mandated that cities revise their policies on inspecting and releasing
      improvement bonds,

   4. Utah Code precludes cities from extending the warranty period for subdivision
      improvements for more than one year,

   5. Fees in lieu are not a workable alternative to installing required improvements or delay
      agreements,

   6. Mandating that a water master signs a set of construction plans that an applicant must
      build to has the effect of subjecting an applicant to standards that are not adopted by
      Kearns City, and is therefore contrary to Utah Code Utah Code 10-9a 509(1)(g),

   7. The legislative intent in adopting an ADU ordinance was that lots with less than 6,000
      square feet would not be allowed to build ADU’s,

   8. Animal rights were never intended to be allowed on lots with less than 20,000 square
      feet,

   9. The existing side and rear yard setbacks in the Manufacturing Zones are excessive
      when located in a manufacturing district or adjacent to other manufacturing, industrial,
      or warehousing uses.

   10. Where manufacturing, industrial or warehousing uses are proposed adjacent to zones
       that are primarily residential or commercial, due to the incompatibility of uses, a
       substantial setback is appropriate.

   11. Where buildings are allowed within five feet of a property line, drainage must still be
       routed to stormwater facilities on the subject parcel.



      [OAM2025-001501 / Kearns Omnibus and HB 368 Amendments / November 3, 2025] | Page 3 of 4
   12. Clear definitions of the words and phrases used in titles 18 and 19 are essential to
       administering those titles.

Given the above findings, staff recommends the following action:

The MSD Planning Staff recommend that the Kearns Planning Commission recommend that
the Council approve the attached ordinance.




      [OAM2025-001501 / Kearns Omnibus and HB 368 Amendments / November 3, 2025] | Page 4 of 4
                          ORDINANCE 2025-O-__

     Ordinance No. O-__                        Date: ____________, 2025

AN ORDINANCE OF THE KEARNS CITY COUNCIL AMENDING TITLE
      18 SUBDIVISIONS AND TITLE 19 ZONING TO: ELIMINATE
  RECLAMATION BOND REQUIREMENTS; BRING PERFORMANCE
  AND WARRANTY BOND PROCEDURES, AND FINAL DISPOSITION
AND RELEASE REQUIREMENTS INTO COMPLIANCE WITH RECENT
 LEGISLATION; ELIMINATE FEES IN LIEU OF THE INSTALLATION
        OF SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS; ELIMINATE THE
REQUIREMENT FOR ANY ENTITY TO SIGN CONSTRUCTION PLANS,
 THEREBY SUBJECTING AN APPLICANT TO REQUIREMENTS NOT
    ADOPTED BY KEARNS CITY IN VIOLATION OF UTAH CODE;
   ELIMINATE LANGUAGE ALLOWING THE CITY TO WITHHOLD
     PERMITS OR OCCUPANCY FOR THE FAILURE TO INSTALL
   PRIVATE LANDSCAPING; CLARIFYING THAT INTERNAL AND
 ATTACHED DWELLING UNITS MAY ONLY BE CONSTRUCTED ON
  SINGLE FAMILY LOTS WITH 6,000 SQUARE FEET OR GREATER;
CLARIFYING THAT A LOT MUST INCLUDE 20,000 SQUARE FEET TO
 HAVE "ANIMAL RIGHTS"; AMENDING THE SIDE AND REAR YARD
  SETBACKS IN THE MANUFACTURING ZONES; AND ADDING OR
        CLARIFYING DEFINITIONS FOR "ANIMAL RIGHTS",
       "ALTERATION", "CLUSTERING", “DRIVE APPROACH”,
      “DRIVEWAY”, DRIVEWAY, CROSS ACCESS”, “DRIVEWAY,
 MULTIFAMILY”, ‘DRIVEWAY, PRIVATE”, “DRIVEWAY, SHARED”,
   “DWELLING”, "EXPANSION", "GRADING", “HARD SURFACE”,
     NATURAL OPEN SPACE", "NET DEVELOPABLE ACREAGE",
  “PAVEMENT”, “PAVED, ROAD, PRIVATE”, "RETAINING WALL",
    "SITE PLAN", "SLOPE", "STREAM, EPHEMERAL", "STREAM,
     PERENNIAL", "STREAM CORRIDOR", “STREAT, PRIVATE”,
"SUBSTANTIAL ECONOMIC HARDSHIP", "UNDEVELOPABLE", AND
                           "WAIVER"


                                 RECITALS
      WHEREAS, Kearns is a municipality and has authority to adopt land use
regulations, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-9a-501 in accordance with the Municipal
Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Title 10, Section 9a, Utah Code; and
       WHEREAS, House Bill 368 was adopted by the Utah Legislature during its
2025 regular session, mandating that cities no longer require improvement
completion assurances to be posted prior to constructing subdivision improvements
unless the developer wants to record the final subdivision plat prior to constructing
those improvements; and
      WHEREAS, House Bill 368 mandated that cities revise their policies on
inspecting and releasing improvement completion assurances; and
      WHEREAS, Utah Code precludes cities from extending the warranty period
for improvement completion assurances for more than one year; and
       WHEREAS, under House Bill 368 fees in lieu are no longer a workable
alternative to installing required public improvements; and
       WHEREAS, mandating that a water master signs a set of construction plans
that an applicant must build to has the effect of subjecting an applicant to standards
that are not adopted by Kearns City, and is therefore contrary to Utah Code Utah
Code 10-9a 509(1)(g); and
       WHEREAS, House Bill 368 precludes the city from holding or revoking
building permits and certificates of occupancy from an applicant based on the failure
of the applicant to install landscaping; and
       WHEREAS, the legislative intent in adopting an ADU ordinance was that
lots with less than 6,000 square feet would not be allowed to build ADU’s; and
       WHEREAS, Animal rights were never intended to be allowed on lots with
less than 20,000 square feet; and
     WHEREAS, The existing side and rear yard setbacks in the Manufacturing
Zones are excessive when located in a manufacturing district or adjacent to other
manufacturing, industrial, or warehousing uses; and
      WHEREAS, Where manufacturing, industrial or warehousing uses are
proposed adjacent to zones that are primarily residential or commercial, due to the
incompatibility of uses, a substantial setback is appropriate; and
      WHEREAS, Where buildings are allowed within five feet of a property line,
drainage must still be routed to stormwater facilities on the subject parcel; and
      WHEREAS, Clear definitions of the words and phrases used in titles 18 and
19 are essential to administering those titles; and
     WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has held a public hearing and
recommended that the Council amend its land use ordinances to comply with Utah
Code, to clarify its legislative intent, and the public health, safety and general
welfare.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE KEARNS CITY COUNCIL as follows:
1.    Chapter 18.16 Performance Bonds, is hereby adopted as set forth in Exhibit
      A.
2.    Section 18.14.150 Open Ditches and Canals, is hereby adopted as set forth in
      Exhibit B.
3.    Section 19.50.190 Enforcement of Landscape Regulations, is hereby adopted
      as set forth in Exhibit C.
4.    Section 19.42.030 Accessory Dwellings, is hereby adopted as set forth in
      Exhibit D.
5.    Section 19.42.060 Animal Rights, is hereby adopted as set forth in Exhibit
      E.
6.    Section 19.34.030 Required Yards and Setbacks in Manufacturing Zones, is
      hereby adopted as set forth in Exhibit F.
7.    Section 19.04.020 General Definitions and Section 19.04.030 Site Develop-
      ment Definitions, are hereby adopted as set forth in Exhibit G.
8.    Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of
      this Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordi-
      nance, or specific application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the re-
      mainder, which shall continue in full force and effect.
9.    Direction to Staff. Staff are authorized and directed to take such steps as may
      be needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law, includ-
      ing but not limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-
      711; and (b) to finalize and post the ordinance to Municode, including but not
      limited to making non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting,
      and numbering errors.
10.   Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting
      pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3-712.
PASSED AND ADOPTED this ____ day of ________________ 2025.
KEARNS CITY COUNCIL



By: Kelly Bush, Mayor

ATTEST

___________________________
Diana Baun, Recorder

Voting:
Council Member ____________ voting                ___
Council Member ____________ voting                ___
Council Member ____________ voting                ___
Council Member ____________ voting                ___
Council Member ____________ voting                ___


  (Complete as Applicable)


  Date ordinance summary was posted to the Utah Public Notice website, and in a public place
  within Kearns City per Utah Code §10-3-711: _____________

  Effective date of ordinance: ________________
                                        EXHIBIT A


CHAPTER 18.16 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES

18.16.010 Performance Guarantee Required

A. Wherever a performance guarantee is required under the terms of this Title, the per-
   formance guarantee shall be submitted:

   1. In conformance with this Chapter; and

   2. Prior to the commencement of any improvements covered by the performance
      guarantee.

18.16.020 Performance Bonds

A. Prior to the recording of a plat or conducting any development activity, in lieu of actual
   completion of the improvements listed in this Title, subdividersapplicants may file with
   Planning and Development Services a performance bond to assure actual construc-
   tion of such improvements within a one-year period after the recording of the plat.

B. If the applicant elects to post a performance bond in lieu of completing the improve-
   ments prior to the recording of the final plat, the applicant shall provide a performance
   bond for:

   1. The completion of one hundred percent (100%) of the required improvements; or

   2. If the Municipal Engineering Division has inspected and accepted a portion of the
      required improvements, one hundred percent (100%) of the incomplete or unac-
      cepted improvements.
C. The amount of the performance bond for public improvements such as curb, gutter,
   sidewalk, road construction and surfacing, flood control and fire hydrants shall may
   not exceed the sum of:

   1. One hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of the infrastructure improve-
      ments asbe established by (1) the Municipal Engineering Division‘s estimated cost
      of completion or (ii) a licensed contractor’s bid;. and

   3.2. Ten percent (10%) of the amount of the bond to cover administrative costs in-
      curred by the City to complete the improvements.

C.D. The performance bond shall also secure any required improvements on individual
   lots within the subdivision which are required in this Chapter.
D.E. The performance bond shall be in the form of a cash bond, an escrow agreement,
   or an irrevocable letter of credit from a financial institution located in the State of Utah.

E.F. A performance bond agreement shall be entered into by the Municipal Engineering
   Division Planning and Development Services and the subdividerapplicant:

   1. The performance bond agreement shall include a provision that the performance
      bond shall expire within thirteen (13) months from the date issued if the bonded
      improvements are not completed, and that the Municipal Engineer Director can
      grant an extension(s) of this period upon a showing of good cause.

   2. If the project has not been completed by that date, then the performance bond
      shall be considered foreclosed upon.

   3. If the project is not timely completed, all remaining funds shall be thereafter remit-
      ted to the Municipal Engineering Division Planning and Development Services Di-
      vision as set forth in the performance bond agreement. period in subsection (F)(1)
      may be extended only if special circumstances warrant an extension, as deter-
      mined by the Director after consultation with the Municipal Engineering Division.

F. A performance bond may be partially released if the performance to which it relates
   has been satisfactorily completed, except that not less than ten percent (10%) of the
   performance bond shall be retained to ensure completion of the entire performance
   which shall be in addition to the 10% that must be retained as a warranty for all bonded
   improvements that have been installed.

G. The Director or designeeMunicipal Engineer may establish objective procedures con-
   sistent with this Section relating to the administration of performance bonds, including
   fund management, default and collection.

18.16.030 Final Disposition and Release

A. Upon completion of the work for which a performance bond has been posted, including
   warranty work related thereto, the developer shall submit to the Municipal Engineering
   DivisionDirector or designee, one copy of a written request for release.

A.B. A performance bond may be partially released if the infrastructure improvement
   category to which it relates has been satisfactorily completed, except that not less
   than ten percent (10%) of the performance bond shall be retained to ensure comple-
   tion of the entire performance which shall be in addition to the 10% that must be re-
   tained as a warranty for all bonded improvements that have been installed.

C. After receipt of the notice and request under Subsection A of this Section, within five
   (5) days tThe Municipal Engineering Division shall accept or reject the improvements
   within fifteen (15) days after receiving an applicant’s written request under Subsection
   (A), Notwithstanding the foregoing, if inspection of the subdivision improvements dur-
   ing that fifteen (15) day period is impeded by winter weather conditions such that a full
   and complete inspection of the improvement or warranty work is not reasonably pos-
   sible, the Municipal Engineering Division shall within a reasonable time thereafter.
   make a preliminary inspection of the improvements and shall submit a report to the
   Director or designee setting forth the condition of the facilities.

   1. Notify the applicant in writing before the end of the applicable time period described
      in Subsection described in Subsection C that, because of winter weather condi-
      tions, the land use authority will require additional time to accept or reject the per-
      formance of warranty work; and

   1.2. Complete the inspection of the performance of warranty work and provide the
      applicant with an acceptance or rejection as soon as practicable.
B.D. The Municipal Engineer Director or designee shall receive the report and, within
   seven (7) days of the inspection, authorize release of a portion of the performance
   bond corresponding to the work completed and approved if the Municipal Engineering
   Division finds, based on objective inspection standards, that the condition of the im-
   provements is satisfactory.

E. The portion of the bond to which may be held as a durability warranty bond under
   Sections 18.16.050 and 18.16.060 of this Chapter may not be released until the dura-
   bility warranty period for all of the approved subdivision improvement plans has ex-
   pired and an inspection has been conducted by the Municipal Engineering Division
   that finds, based on objective inspection standards, that the condition of the improve-
   ments is satisfactory.

   1. An applicant may request that the ten percent (10%) of the performance bond held
      as a warranty be released if they have first posted a separate warranty bond prior
      to that release.
   1.2. In lieu of posting a separate warranty bond, the applicant may choose to au-
      thorize the municipality to hold ten percent (10%) of the performance bond for the
      duration of the warranty period.
C.F. A bond may not be released if , after consulting with the Municipal Engineering
   Division, the Directorthe Municipal Engineer:
   1. Finds that the installation of required subdivision improvements does not meet the
      City’s adopted standards or if the condition of material or workmanship shows un-
      usual depreciation or does not comply with the acceptable standards of durability;
   2. Finds that any other terms of the bond agreement have not been satisfied; or
   3. As built plans, including profile drawings, have not been filed and corresponding
      GIS data (as required) has not been submitted.

D.G. If the Municipal Engineering Division determines that the installation of required
   subdivision improvements does not meet the municipality's adopted standards, the
   Municipal Engineering Division shall provide the applicant with a list of required cor-
   rections within fifteen (15) days. The list of required corrections must comprehensively
   and with specificity list the reasons for the determinationIf the bonds are not released,
   the reasons shall be given to the applicant in writing within seven (7) days from the
   time of the inspection.

E.H. In the case of a dispute over the release of a performance bond under this Section,
   the Director Municipal Engineer may refer the matter to the Kearns Council for subse-
   quent action to secure performance.
F.I. Such bonds shall be processed and released in accordance with the procedures set
     forth in Chapter 3.56 of Municipal Code.
18.16.040 Default

A. Upon substantiating a finding under Subsection B of this Section, the Director with
   approval of the Council may, with due notice to the developer:

   1. Declare the performance bond forfeited; and

   2. Install or cause the required improvement to be installed using the proceeds from
      the performance bond to defray the costs.

B. A performance bond may be forfeited under Subsection A of this Section if the Director
   finds that a developer has failed or neglected to:

   1. Satisfactorily install the required improvements;

   2. Make required corrections;

   3. Make payment to Planning and Development Services for administration and in-
      spections; or

   4. Otherwise failed to carry out the activity for which the performance bond was re-
      quired.

C. The developer is responsible for work beyond the limits of the bond amount.

D. Any funds remaining after completion of the required improvements will be returned
   to the developer.
18.16.050 Warranty Period
A. The warranty period does not begin until each of the following actions have been
   taken:

   1. The applicant requests a final inspection of all of the improvements in the approved
      subdivision improvement plans;

   2. All of the subdivision improvements in the approved subdivision improvement
      plans have been inspected and accepted as complete by the Municipal Engineer-
      ing Division; and
   3. The applicant posts a warranty bond, subject to Section 18.16.060, in the amount
      of 10% of the estimated cost of the infrastructure improvements as established by
      the Municipal Engineering Division‘s estimated cost of completion or a licensed
      contractor’s bid. The applicant may indicate in writing that ten percent (10%) of the
      performance bond be retained as the warrant in lieu of posting a separate warranty
      bond.

B. The applicant may request partial releases of the performance bond as subdivision
   improvement categories are completed in accordance with Section 18.16.030 of this
   Chapter. Such requests shall follow the same process described in Section 18.16.030,
   except that the applicant shall clearly indicate in the request the completed subdivision
   improvement categories, overall percentages of completion of the work covered by
   performance bond(s) for the project, and other relevant information reasonable re-
   quested by the Municipal Engineer to support the partial release(s). While partial re-
   leases may be granted, the warranty period for all of the subdivision improvements
   does not begin until all of the subdivision improvements are complete, inspected and
   accepted by the Municipal Engineering Division. A partial release does not start a war-
   ranty period for those improvements associated with the release.

C. Where an applicant chooses to complete the work prior to recording the plat instead
   of posting an improvement bond, the subdivision plat may not be recorded until the
   subdivision improvements are completed, inspected by the Municipal Engineer Divi-
   sion, accepted by the Municipal Engineering Division, and the warranty bond is posted
   in accordance with Section 18.16.060.

18.16.050 Warranty Bond, Phase 1: Reclamation

A. Prior to conducting any development activity, the developer shall file with Planning
   and Development Services a reclamation bond to ensure that the site can be made
   safe in the event the developer is unable to complete the required improvements.

B. The amount of the reclamation bond for public improvements such as curb, gutter,
   sidewalk, road construction and surfacing, flood control and fire hydrants shall be not
   less than ten percent (10%) of the Municipal Engineering Division‘s estimated cost of
   completion.

C. The reclamation bond shall be in the form of a cash bond, an escrow agreement, or
   an irrevocable letter of credit from a financial institution located in the State of Utah.

D. At the end of the construction phase of the project, when the Municipal Engineering
   Division has approved and accepted the required improvements, the reclamation bond
   becomes the durability bond, with the final disposition and release subject to the same
   standards as the durability bond.

18.16.060 Warranty Bond, Phase 2: Durability
A. The Planning and Development Services Division shall retain a durability warranty
   bond in the amount of not less than ten percent (10%) of the initial amount of the
   performance bond or the applicant‘s reasonable proven cost of completion. The dura-
   bility warranty bond shall be in the form of a cash bond, an escrow agreement, or an
   irrevocable letter of credit. The durability warranty bond shall be for the purpose of
   warrantying the improvements and shall be for a period of:

B.A.   oOne (1) year after final acceptance of the improvement or warranty work; or

   1. Two (2) years after final acceptance of the improvement or warranty work, if the
      Director:

       a. Determines for good cause that a lesser period would be inadequate to protect
          the public health, safety, and welfare; and

       b. Has substantial evidence of any of the following:

          (1) Prior poor performance of the applicant;

          (2) Unstable soil conditions within the subdivision or development area; or

          (3) Extreme fluctuations in climatic conditions that would render impracticable
              the discovery of substandard or defective performance within a one-year
              period.

C. A determination under Subsection A2 of this section shall be made by the Municipal
   Engineering Division in consultation with the Director.

B. At the end of the warranty period, the Municipal Engineering Division shall conduct an
   inspection of the required improvements to ensure that:

   1. The improvements have not failed or shown unusual depreciation;
   2. No portion of the required work remains incomplete: or
   3. The materials or workmanship used in constructing the improvements continue to
      comply with accepted standards of durability.

D.C. If, after the warranty period, the durability of said improvements is found to be sat-
   isfactory, the retainage may be released following the procedure outlined under Sec-
   tion 18.16.030 of this Chapter.

E. The Director may authorize a release of fifty percent (50%) of the improvement dura-
   bility bond prior to the warranty period, if determined appropriate based on a finding
   of:

   1. The project has been completed and found acceptable and all monies have been
      released except for the durability bond;

   2. An error in the initial amount of the performance bond or the original calculation of
      the durability bond; or

   3. A fact that was previously unknown to the Municipal Engineering Division that is
      material in a determination that the municipality‘s public health, safety, and welfare
      would still be adequately protected.

D. If during or at the end of the warranty period the Municipal Engineering Division de-
   termines that the conditions under subsection B apply, the Municipal Engineering Di-
   vision shall provide the applicant with a list of required corrections within fifteen (15)
   days. The corrections list must comprehensively and with specificity list the reasons
   for the determination.

F.E. The person giving the durability warranty bond shall correct the improvements if at
   any time during the warranty period:

   1. Any required improvement fails or shows unusual depreciation;
   2. Certain work has not been completed or it becomes evident that certain work was
      not completed; or

   3. The materials or workmanship used in constructing the improvements do not oth-
      erwise comply with accepted standards of durability.

G.F. If the corrections are not made within a reasonable time, the Director, with review
   from the Kearns Council, in accordance with Section 18.16.040 of this Chapter, may
   declare the person and in default and use the retainage to defray the cost of any
   required work.

18.16.070 Fee In Lieu Of Required Improvements
A. Where present conditions exist which make it unfeasible or impractical for the devel-
   oper or property owner to install any required public improvements, the Director may
   require the subdivider to pay to the municipality a fee equal to the estimated cost of
   such improvements as determined by the Municipal Engineering Division. Upon pay-
   ment of the fee by the developer, the municipality shall assume the responsibility for
   future installation of such improvements.
The auditor shall establish a special account for such fees and shall credit to such ac-
count a proportioned share of interest earned from investment of municipal moneys.
Records relating to identification of properties for which fees have been collected, fee
amounts collected for such properties and money transfer requests shall be the respon-
sibility of the Planning and Development Services Division.
                                        EXHIBIT B



18.14.150 Open Ditches and Canals, Permitted When

A. Open ditches or canals may not be allowed within or adjoining a subdivision except
   along rear or side lot lines. The subdivider shall work with irrigation, drainage or ditch
   companies as to:

   1. Methods of covering, realigning or eliminating ditches or canals within or adjoining
      the subdivision;

   2. The size of pipe and culverts required;

   3. The responsibility for the periodic inspection, cleaning and maintenance of such
      ditches, pipes and culverts. In cases where canals or ditches cross public roads or
      proposed public roads, specifications and grades for pipe or culvert must be ap-
      proved by the Planning and Development Services Division.

B. Irrigation components, whether open or piped, require water master approval.

   1. If existing irrigation components are suspected and not identified, then verification
      is required.

   2. If irrigation components are present, they are checked to comply with the ordi-
      nance.

   3. The Water Master‘s signature is required on any sheet in the final construction
      plans which show irrigation components.

   4. Final approval of the construction plans shall be withheld until Water Master‘s sig-
      nature is confirmed.
                                       EXHIBIT C


19.50.190 Enforcement of Landscape Regulations

A. No building permit or occupancy permit may be issued for any lot or use subject to the
   requirements of this Chapter unless all the requirements of this Chapter have been
   fulfilled.

B.A. If weather or other factors prohibit the installation of landscaping at the time an
   occupancy permit is applied for, the applicant shall post a bond to guarantee the com-
   pletion of the public landscaping, which shall be returned upon completion of required
   landscaping.

C.B. Failure to implement the landscape plan, or to maintain the lot or use in substantial
   conformance with the landscape plan, shall be cause for revocation of the occupancy
   permit and/or the application of fines and penalties, as established in this Code. In
   addition, all landscaping is subject to periodic inspection.
                                        EXHIBIT D


19.42.030 Accessory Dwelling Unit
B. Allowable Areas and Zones.
   1. ADUs incorporated within the single-family residence Internal Accessory Dwelling
      Units (iIADUs) and Attached Accessory Dwelling Units (AADUs) shall be a
      permitted use on single family home lots in residential zones that require six
      thousand square foot (6,000 sq.ft.) minimum lot sizes or greater. IADU’s and
      AADU’s may only be constructed on lots with an area of 6,000 square feet or
      greater.
   2. Detached Accessory Dwelling Units (DADU) are also permitted but may only be
      built on single family lots with an area of five thousand square feet (5,000 sq. ft.)
      or greater.
   32. In no case may an ADU be permitted in a townhome, a multi-family PUD or other
       attached residential unit type, or on any lot that cannot satisfy parking, setback,
       or lot coverage requirements.
C. Number of Residents. ADU’s may not be occupied by more than four (4)
   persons.one family.
                                       EXHIBIT E


19.42.060 Animal Rights
Animal rights, where allowed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable zone,
are also subject to the following standards:
A. Parcels containing fewer than twenty thousand square feet (20,000 sq. ft.) are
   prohibited from keeping animals under the animal rights provisions in this Section.
B. When a parcel with animal rights contains at least twenty thousand square feet
   (20,000 sq. ft.) but fewerless than five and one-quarter (5.25) acres, that parcel may
   hold no more than one animal unit and their seasonal offspring for each ten
   thousand square feet (10,000 sq. ft.).
CB. When a parcel or group of contiguous parcels with shared ownership contains
  more than five and one-quarter (5.25) acres, that parcel or group of parcels may
  hold no more than one (1) animal unit and their seasonal offspring for each five
  thousand square feet (5,000 sq. ft.).
DC. No animals or fowl may be kept or maintained closer than forty feet (40’) to any
  dwelling on an adjacent parcel of land. No barn, stable, coop, pen or corral shall be
  kept closer than forty feet (40’) to any street.
ED. All yards, barns, shelters, cages, areas, places, and premises where domestic
  livestock, animals, or fowl are kept shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
  condition so that flies, dust, or odors do not disturb the health of any person or
  animal or create a nuisance to any adjoining property.
FE. All pens, yards, shelters, cages, areas, and premises where animals are held or
   kept shall be maintained so that no flies, insects, or vermin, rodent harborage, odors,
   ponded water, the accumulation of manure, garbage or other noxious materials do
   not disturb health and safety of any person or animal.
                                         EXHIBIT F


19.34.050 Required Yards and Setbacks
A. Development in the M-1 or M-2 Zones shall comply with the yard and setback stand-
   ards shown in Table 19.34.050 and all other applicable standards in this Title.

Table 19.34.050: Required Yards and Setbacks for M-1 and M-2 Zones.

Standard                                                     M-1                  M-2
Front Yard and Side Yard, Corner Lot Setback (in        Minimum: 20         Minimum: 25
feet)                                                   Maximum: NA         Maximum: NA
Side Yard, Interior Lot Setback – Interior Lots (in    Minimum: 200B        Minimum: 200B
feet)                                                  Maximum: NA          Maximum: NA
                                                        Minimum: 20         Minimum: 25
Side Yard Setback – Corner Lots (in feet)
                                                        Maximum: NA         Maximum: NA
                                                       Minimum: 250B        Minimum: 350B
Rear Yard Setback (in feet)
                                                       Maximum: NA          Maximum: NA
Minimum Distance between Primary and                          10                   10
Accessory Structures (in feet)
Side Yard, Interior Lot and Rear Yard Setback (in       Minimum: 30C        Minimum: 30C
feet) from a residential zone boundary                  Maximum: NA         Maximum: NA
Side Yard, Interior Lot and Rear Setback (in feet)
                                                        Minimum: 20         Minimum: 20
from a nonresidential or nonmanufacturing zone
                                                        Maximum: NA         Maximum: NA
boundary
B. Required Setback to Contain Roof Drainage. All buildings located closer than five
   feet (5’) from a property line shall be equipped with facilities for the discharge of all
   roof drainage onto the subject lot or parcel.
B.C. Residential Buffer. A six-foot (6’) masonry wall is required between residential
   and non-residential uses in accordance with Section 19.50.050.B.
                                          EXHIBIT G
19.04.20 General Definitions
A.      General terms used in Title 19 are defined as follows:
     1. “Affected Entity” means a county, municipality, local district, special service
        district under Title 17D, Chapter 1, Special Service District Act, school district,
        interlocal cooperation entity established under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal
        Cooperation Act, specified public utility, property owner, property owners
        association, or the Utah Department of Transportation, if:
        a. The entity's services or facilities are likely to require expansion or significant
           modification because of an intended use of land;
        b. The entity has filed with the municipality a copy of the entity's general or long-
           range plan; or
     c. The entity has filed with the municipality a request for notice during the same
        calendar year and before the municipality provides notice to an affected entity in
        compliance with a requirement imposed under this Ordinance or Utah Code.
     2. “Agent” means a person with written authorization to represent a property owner.
     2.3. "Alteration" means any change or rearrangement in the supporting members
        of an existing structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, or
        interior partitions, or any change in the dimensions or configurations of the roof or
        exterior walls.
     3.4. “Animal Rights” means the keeping of livestock and fowl on lots and parcels
        containing at least twenty thousand (20,000) square feet. The keeping of
        livestock and fowl is, limited to one animal unit and their seasonal offspring for
        each ten thousand square feet (10,000 sq.ft.).
     4.5.   “Animal Unit” means a proportionate combination of the following:
        a. One (1) cow, or one (1) horse, or one (1) pig, or one (1) llama, or one (1)
           other similar large animal.
        b. Four (4) adult sheep or feeder lambs, or two (2) alpacas (similar to llama).
        c. Two (2) goats.
        d. Ten (10) chickens, or ten (10) ducks, or ten (10) pigeons, or ten (10) similar
           small fowl, subject to the standards and requirements of this Title, Salt Lake
           County Animal Services, and Salt Lake County Health Department that
           ensure that domesticated fowl do not adversely impact the neighborhood
       surrounding the property on which the domestic fowl are kept. For regulations
       regarding the keeping of chickens, see Chapter 19.42.
   e. Twelve (12) rabbits, or twelve (12) similar small animals.
   f. Two (2) large birds such as ostriches, or emus, or peacocks.
   g. Four (4) turkeys.
   h. The total animal units located on a given parcel or animal operation shall be
      determined by adding the animal units for each animal type. For the purpose
      of determining compliance, said definition shall not include the un-weaned
      offspring of any residing animal which is less than six (6) months in age.
5.6.      “Appeal Authority” means the same as “Land Use Hearing Officer.”
6.7.      “Applicant” means the person who makes formal application for a license,
   permit, subdivision or submits any application pursuant to Titles 18 or 19 of
   Kearns Municipal Code.
7.8.      “Bench Mark” means a mark affixed to a permanent or semi-permanent
   object along a line of survey to furnish a datum level.
8.9.      “Boundary Line Agreement” means an agreement to establish the location
   of a boundary between adjoining properties where the location of the boundary is
   ambiguous, uncertain, or disputed.
9.10.     “Buffer, Riparian” means an area along the course of any watercourse or
   roadway or boundary line to be maintained without the disturbance of buildings or
   structures other than fencing, if allowed.
11. “Business Day” means a day in which normal business operations are
    conducted. Saturdays, Sundays, Holidays and days Planning and Development
    Services are not open are not considered business days.
10.12.   "Clustering" means a development or subdivision design technique that
   concentrates buildings or lots on a part of the site to allow the remaining land to
   be used for recreation, common open space, and/or preservation of
   environmentally sensitive areas.
11.13.    “Concept Plat / Drawing” means a drawing that shows the overall concept
   of a proposed development, as further defined in these regulations.
12.14.    “Conditional Use” means a land use that has unique characteristics or
   negative effects that may not be compatible in an area without conditions to
   mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts. A land use listed as a conditional
   use is a use of land for which a conditional use permit is required pursuant to this
   Title.
13.15.     “Conservation Easement” means an easement that perpetually prohibits
   further development or use inconsistent with, or harmful to, the enhancement,
   preservation, and protection of a defined area for the benefit of fish, wildlife,
   plants, or other similar ecosystems, or preserves such areas predominantly in
   their natural scenic or open condition; but which may, in the sole discretion of the
   [insert name of conservation easement holder], permit recreational and/or
   agricultural uses which do not involve significant alteration or development of the
   restricted area in a manner which is inconsistent with, or harmful to, the
   preservation and protection of the restricted area.
14.16.    “Council” means the municipal council, unless otherwise clearly indicated.
15.17.    “Culinary Water Authority” means the department, agency, or public entity
   with the responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water
   system and sources for the subject property.
16.18.    “Development” means any man-made change to improved or unimproved
   real estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
   dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
17.19.    “Development Code” means Titles 18 and 19 of Kearns Municipal Code.
18.20.   “Development Review Committee (DRC)” means Planning and
   Development Services staff, in consultation with agencies contracted with the
   municipality for engineering, health, fire, and surveying reviews and services.
   Comments from other affected entities, service providers or other reviewing
   agencies may also be solicited as needed.
19.21.    “Director” means the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Director
   of Planning and Development Services.
20.22.   “Dwelling” means any building or structure, or portion thereof, intended for
   residential use.
21.23.   “Drive Approach” means an area of the public right-of-way located
   between the roadway and property adjacent to the public right-of-way that is
   intended to provide access for vehicles from the roadway to the adjacent
   property.
22.24.    “Driveway” means a path of ingress and egress constructed within and
   adjoining a roadway, connecting the roadway with adjacent or nearby property in
   accordance with Magna Municipal Code. A “driveway” is an unobstructed access
   from a public or private right of way to an adjacent or nearby property that does
   not interfere with vehicular or pedestrian travel within the right of way.
25. “Driveway, Cross Access” means a service drive providing vehicular access
    between two or more contiguous sites, so the driver need not enter the public
    street system.
26. "Driveway, Multifamily" means a driveway providing access to more than four
    dwelling units.
27. “Driveway, Private” means a driveway limited to the use of the owner or a group
    of owners who share the use and maintain the access and those having express
    or implied permission from the owner or owners, but not by other persons.
28. “Driveway, Shared” means a driveway serving more than one lot.
23. "Dwelling" means any building or structure, or portion thereof, intended for
    residential use.
24.29.    “Dwelling Unit” means one or more rooms physically arranged so as to
   create an independent housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family
   with separate toilets and facilities for cooking and sleeping. Buildings with more
   than one (1) kitchen or set of cooking facilities are considered to contain more
   than one (1) dwelling unit unless the additional cooking facilities are clearly
   accessory to a dwelling unit as determined by the development services director.
   Factors for determining whether cooking facilities are accessory to a dwelling unit
   may include but are not limited to:
   a. A building design which allows all occupants ready access to all portions of
      the building including cooking facilities;
   b. No portion of the building containing cooking facilities may be separated from
      the remaining rooms to form a separate dwelling unit; and
   c. There is only one (1) electric and/or gas meter for the building.
30. “Easement” means the quantity of land set aside or over which a liberty, privilege
    or advantage in land without profit, existing distinct from the ownership of the
    land, is granted to the public or some particular person or part of the public.
25.31.    "Expansion" means an increase in the size of an existing structure or use,
   including physical size of the property, building, parking, and other
   improvements.
26.32.   “Facility Company” means a company not regulated by the public service
   commission that provides a service including but not limited to cable television or
   telecommunications.
27.33.   “Family” means one of the following groups of individuals, but not more
   than one group at the same time:
   a. An individual living alone; or
   b. Two (2) or more people, all of whom are related to one designated occupant
      of the dwelling by blood, marriage, adoption, or legal guardianship and their
      foster children, and up to two (2) other unrelated persons who do not pay
      rent; or
   c. Up to four (4) related or unrelated individuals who live and cook together as a
      single housekeeping unit; or
   d. Two (2) unrelated individuals and any children of either of them living as a
      single housekeeping unit.
34. “Good Cause” means incapacitating illness; death; lack of proper notice;
    unavailability due to unavoidable, unpreventable, or extenuating emergency or
    circumstance; if a required act causes an imminent and irreparable injury; or acts
    of nature adverse to performing required acts.
28.35.    "Grading" means any change of existing surface conditions by excavating,
   placing of any soils or rocks, or stripping of vegetation.
29.36.     “Graffiti” means inscriptions, drawings, paintings, or other visual defacing
   of buildings, structures, or natural features, without the consent of the owner
   thereof, and which is not otherwise authorized and permitted in municipal
   ordinances.
30.37.   “Guest” means a person paying for staying or receiving services at a bed
   and breakfast, hotel, motel, resort, or similar facility.
38. “Guestroom” means a room that is designed for double occupancy by guests, for
    sleeping purposes.
31.39.    “Hard surface” means any asphalt or concrete surface of an approved
   thickness, or other approved surface, but excluding rock, gravel, grass, or dirt.
32.40.   “Health Department” means the Health Department of Salt Lake County,
   Utah.
33.41.    “Inoperable Vehicle” means a vehicle that is not currently registered or
   licensed in the Utah or in another state, or which has been dismantled or
   wrecked so that it is no longer considered street legal.
34.42.    “Land Trust” means a private non-stock, non-profit corporation that has as
   its purpose the preservation.
35.43.   “Land Use Application” means an application required by the zoning or
   subdivision ordinances.
36.44.    “Land Use Authority” means the person, board, commission, agency, or
   other body designated by the Magna Municipal Council to act upon a land use
   application.
37.45.   “Land Use Decision” means any final decision of the Council, Planning
   Commission, or final administrative decision of the Director or other official
   responsible for the enforcement of zoning and subdivision regulations.
38.46.    “Land Use Hearing Officer” means the “Appeal Authority” created pursuant
   to Utah Code §10-9a.701 to hear appeals to zoning decisions applying to the
   zoning ordinance as provided in Section 19.16.020 and for decisions by the
   Planning Commission. The Land Use Hearing Officer is also the appeal authority
   for subdivision appeals subject to Section 18.08.040 of Kearns Municipal Code.
   The Land Use Hearing Officer is also charged with the powers and duties
   enumerated in Section 19.12.040.C.
39.47.     “Legal Lot of Record” means any land parcel that existed, as recorded in
   the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder, with a separate property
   identification number as provided by the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder
   and Office of the Salt Lake County Assessor, prior to December 17, 1952, and all
   land parcels that were legally created for the purposes of development pursuant
   to the applicable zoning and subdivision requirements and the laws of the State
   of Utah after the date of the first Subdivision Ordinance enactment.
40.48.   “Local Jurisdiction” means the municipality, or other political subdivision
   adopting this Ordinance.
41.49.   “Membrane Covered Frame Structure” means a non-pressurized building
   wherein the structure is composed of a rigid framework to support a tensioned
   membrane that provides the weather barrier.
42.50.      “Minor Local Street” means a street, existing or proposed, often of limited
   continuity, the primary purpose of which is to provide access to property and
   serve the local needs of a neighborhood. A minor local street carries low volumes
   of traffic at the lowest speed limits.
43.51.   “Monument” means a permanent survey marker established by the Salt
   Lake County Surveyor and/or a survey marker set in accordance with the Salt
   Lake County Surveyor’s specifications and referenced to Salt Lake County
   survey monuments.
44.52.    “Municipal Engineering Division” means the division or personnel hired by
   or contracted with the municipality to provide engineering services. The
   “Municipal Engineering Division” is also referred to as the “Municipal Engineer” or
   “Municipal Engineering”.
45.53.    “Municipal Flood Control Division” means the division or personnel hired
   by or contracted with the municipality to provide flood control and water quality
   services.
46.54.   “Municipal Geologist” means the personnel hired by or contracted with the
   municipality to provide geologic hazard review and geology services.
55. “Natural Condition” means the topography and vegetation of the area that is
    unaltered by clearing and grading during construction and protected in perpetuity.
56. "Net developable acreage" is defined as land with all of the following:
   a. An average slope less than thirty percent; and
   a.b. Free from any identified natural hazards such as flood, avalanche,
      landslide, high water table and similar features. See Chapter
      19.56 (Floodplain Hazard Regulations) and Chapter 19.58 (Geological Hazard
      Regulations).
47.57.    “Noncomplying Structure” means a building or other structure or portion
   thereof lawfully constructed in compliance with the zoning ordinance existing at
   the time of construction, that no longer conforms to the height, area, and/or yard
   regulations in the zone in which it is located due to changes to the zoning
   ordinance or to the subsequent public acquisition of land for public
   improvements. A “Noncomplying Structure” may also be referred to as
   “Nonconforming Structures”.
48.58.    “Nonconforming Use” means a use which lawfully occupied a building or
   land at the time the ordinance codified in this Title became effective and which
   does not conform with the use regulations of the zone in which it is located.
49.59.     “Nonconforming Lot” means a legally established lot or parcel that met the
   applicable area, width and other applicable requirements in effect at the time the
   lot or parcel was created, but which fails by reason of such adoption, revision or
   amendment of the zoning ordinance, to conform to the present requirements of
   the zone in which it is located.
50.60.    “Owner” includes the plural as well as the singular, and may mean either a
   natural person, firm, association, partnership, private corporation, public or quasi-
   public corporation, or any combination thereof having a majority fee simple
   interest in real property, or a majority interest through any other form of
   ownership.
61. “Parcel of Land” means a contiguous quantity of land, in the possession of, or
    owned by, or recorded as the property of, the same claimant or person.
62. “Pavement” includes the paved portion of a street, including paved shoulders and
    on street parking areas. “Pavement does not include curbs, gutters, park strips,
    sidewalks, trails, and driveways.
51.63.    “Paved” means ground covered with stone, brick, concrete, asphalt, or
   other approved surface, installed over a compacted base course, making a
   permanent surface that is firm, smooth, and level. A graded natural surface, or
   one covered with rolled stone or overlaid with compacted or loose gravel is not
   considered a paved surface.
52.64.    “Permitted Use” means any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to
   the restrictions applicable to that zoning district.
53.65.     “Planning and Development Services” means the Planning and
   Development Services Department of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
   District.
54.66.    “Planning Commission” means the municipal planning commission.
55.67.    “Portable Storage Container” means a transportable, weather-resistant,
   commercially leased or rented storage structure or container that is designed and
   used primarily for the storage of goods, items, and materials placed outside of
   the primary structure on a property. Portable Storage Container includes CONEX
   and other Shipping Containers. Portable Storage Container does not include yard
   waste containers, construction debris containers, or containers with a storage
   capacity less than two-hundred (200) cubic feet.
56.68.     “Pre-Existing Lot” means a lot that was created prior to the adoption date
   of this Ordinance, through a recorded subdivision plat, deed, sales contract, or
   survey, and a lot that met the zoning regulations in effect at the time of its
   creation. For the purposes of this Title, a pre-existing lot is a nonconforming lot
   and shall be regulated in the same manner as nonconforming lots.
57.69.     “Pre-Existing Structure” means a structure that was legally constructed
   prior to the adoption of this Ordinance. For the purposes of this Title, a pre-
   existing structure is a nonconforming structure and shall be regulated in the
   same manner as nonconforming structures.
58.70.    “Pre-Existing Use” means a use that was legally established prior to the
   adoption of this Ordinance and has not been abandoned for more than one year.
   For the purposes of this Title, a pre-existing use is a nonconforming use and shall
   be regulated in the same manner as nonconforming uses.
59.71.      “Primary Dwelling” means a single-family dwelling that:
   a. Is detached;
   b. Is occupied as the primary residence of the owner of record; and
   c. “Primary Dwelling” includes a garage if the garage:
         (1) Is a habitable space; and
         (2) Is connected to the primary dwelling by a common wall.
60.72.    “Provisional Parking” means an area or areas within a parking lot where
   parking spaces which are shown on the approved parking plan are landscaped
   rather than paved. Provisional parking is subject to the requirements of Chapter
   19.48.
61.73.   “Public Works Operations” means the division or personnel hired by or
   contracted with the municipality to provide road construction and maintenance,
   snow removal and other related services.
62.74.   “Record of Survey Map” means a map of a survey of land prepared in
   accordance with Utah Code.
63.75.    “Recreational Vehicle” means a vehicular unit other than a mobile home,
   primarily designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, or vacation
   use, that is either self-propelled or pulled by or on another vehicle, including but
   not limited to truck campers, camper trailers, motorhomes, vehicles converted to
   have living facilities, or other vehicles used as sleeping or living
   accommodations.
64.76.      “Residential Roadway” means a public local residential road that:
   a. Will serve primarily to provide access to adjacent primarily residential areas
      and property;
   b. Is designed to accommodate minimal traffic volumes or vehicular traffic;
   c. Is not identified as a supplementary to a collector or other higher system
      classified street in an approved municipal street or transportation master plan;
   d. Has a posted speed limit of 25 miles per hour or less;
   e. Does not have higher traffic volumes resulting from connecting previously
      separated areas of the municipal road network;
   f. Cannot have a primary access, but can have a secondary access, and does
      not abut lots intended for high volume traffic or community centers, including
      schools, recreation centers, sports complexes, or libraries; and
   g. Primarily serves traffic within a neighborhood or limited residential area and is
      not necessarily continuous through several residential areas.
77. “Road” can be used interchangeably with the word street.
65.78.    “Road, Private” means the same as “Street, Private”
79. “Sanitary Sewer Authority” means the department, agency, or public entity with
    responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of sanitary sewer services or
    onsite wastewater systems.
80. "Site plan" means an accurately scaled plan that illustrates the existing
    conditions on a land parcel and the details of a proposed development, including
    but not limited to: topography; vegetation; drainage; flood plains; wetlands;
    waterways; landscaping and open space; walkways; means of ingress and
    egress; circulation; utility easements and services; structures and buildings;
    lighting; berms, buffers and screening devices; development on adjacent
    property; and any other information that may be required to make an informed
    decision.
66.81.    "Slope" means the level of inclination from the horizontal, determined by
   dividing, in fifty foot intervals, the average horizontal run of the slope into the
   average vertical rise of the same slope and converting the resulting figure into a
   percentage value.
67.82.     “Standards and Specifications” means the construction and design
   requirements and standards of the municipality for the construction and
   installation of public infrastructure and improvements. The documents shall be
   approved by the Municipal Engineer and approved by Resolution of the Council.
83. “Start of Construction” includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
    building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
    reconstruction, placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty
    days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of
   permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
   footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond
   the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
   foundation. “Permanent construction” does not include land preparation, such as
   clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
   walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
   foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation
   on the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied
   as dwelling units or not as part of the main structure.
84. "Stream, Ephemeral" means those channels, swales, gullies, or low areas that do
    not have flow year-round or are not shown on United States Geological Services
    (U.S.G.S.) topographic maps as perennial streams. These are generally
    channels that are tributary to perennial streams, other ephemeral streams,
    terminal low areas, ponds, or lakes. They are typically dry except during periods
    of snowmelt runoff or intense rainfall. (Contrast with "Stream, Perennial.")
85. "Stream, Perennial" means those streams, excluding ephemeral streams, or
    ditches and canals constructed for irrigation and drainage purposes, which flow
    year-round during years of normal rainfall, and that are identified on the
    appropriate United States Geological Services (U.S.G.S.) topographic maps as
    perennial streams. (Contrast with "Stream, Ephemeral.")
68.86.    "Stream corridor" means the corridor defined by a perennial stream's
   ordinary high water mark.
69.87.    “Street” means a thoroughfare which has been dedicated or abandoned to
   the public and accepted by proper public authority, or a thoroughfare, not less
   than twenty-five feet wide, which has been made public by right of use and which
   affords the principal means of access to abutting property. Street does not
   include alleys or trails. May sometimes be referred to as road.
70.88.     “Street, Private” means an access way, other than a driveway, similar to
   and having substantially the same or similar function as a public street, providing
   access to one or more properties, but held in private ownership. A “private street”
   is limited to the use of the owner or group of owners who share the use and
   maintain the street without the assistance of public entities. “Street, Private” and
   “Road, Private” can be used interchangeably.
71.89.     “Streetlight” means a raised light installed within or adjacent to the street
   right-of-way, turned on or lit at a certain time every night. Modern lamps may also
   have light-sensitive photocells to turn them on at dusk and off at sunrise or
   activate automatically in foul weather.
72.90.    “Structure” means anything constructed or erected which requires location
   on the ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground.
73.91.    “Structural Alterations” means any change in supporting members of a
   building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
74.92.     “Subdivision” means any land that is divided, resubdivided, or proposed to
   be divided into two or more lots or other division of land for the purpose, whether
   immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the
   installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions.
   a. “Subdivision” includes:
      (1) The division or development of land, whether by deed, metes and bounds
          description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded instrument,
          regardless of whether the division includes all or a portion of a parcel or
          lot; and
      (2) Except as provided in Subsection B, divisions of land for residential and
          nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for commercial,
          agricultural, and industrial purposes.
   b. “Subdivision” does not include:
      (1) A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the purpose of
          joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of
          unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
          the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable
          land use ordinance;
      (2) A boundary line agreement recorded with the county recorder's office
          between owners of adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary in
          accordance with Utah Code § 10-9a-524 if no new parcel is created;
      (3) A recorded document, executed by the owner of record:
          i.   Revising the legal descriptions of multiple parcels into one legal
               description encompassing all such parcels; or
          ii. Joining a lot to a parcel;
          iii. A boundary line agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided
               properties adjusting the mutual lot line boundary in accordance with
               Utah Code, § 10-9a-524 and § 10-9a-608, if:
               1. No new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the adjustment;
                  and
               2. The adjustment will not violate any applicable land use ordinance;
            iv. A bona fide division of land by deed or other instrument if the deed or
                other instrument states in writing that the division:
               1. Is in anticipation of future land use approvals on the parcel or
                  parcels;
               2. Does not confer any land use approvals; and
               3. Has not been approved by the land use authority;
               4. A parcel boundary adjustment;
               5. A lot line adjustment;
               6. A road, street, or highway dedication plat;
               7. A deed or easement for a road, street, or highway purpose; or
               8. Any other division of land authorized by law.
75.93.   “Subdivision Amendment” means an amendment to a recorded
   subdivision in accordance with Utah Code § 10-9a-608, that:
   a. Vacates all or a portion of the subdivision;
   b. Alters the outside boundary of the subdivision;
   c. Changes the number of lots within the subdivision;
   d. Alters a public right-of-way, a public easement, or public infrastructure within
      the subdivision; or
   e. Alters a common area or other common amenity within the subdivision.
94. “Subject Property” means the land area for which an approval is required to
    comply with this Ordinance.
76.95.  "Substantial economic hardship" means a denial of all reasonable
   economic use of a property.
77.96.      “Substantial improvement” means:
   a. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of which
      equals or exceeds fifty percent of the market value of the structure, either:
         (1) Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (2) If the structure is damaged and is being restored, before the damage
             occurred.
   b. For the purpose of this definition, “substantial improvement” is considered to
      occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part
      of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
      dimensions of the structure.
   c. The term does not, however, include either:
       (1) Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or
           local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
           necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
       (2) Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
           Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
97. “Trails” means a system of public recreational pathways located within the
    municipality for use by the public for walking, biking and/or horseback riding as
    designated.
78.98.   "Undevelopable" means strict application of this title prevents the
   minimum development necessary to establish a permitted or conditional use in
   the underlying zone on the property.
79.99.   “Utility Company” means a company regulated by the public service
   commission that provides a service including but not limited to electricity,
   telephone, or gas.
80.100. “Utilities or Improvements” means all types of necessary utilities such as
   gas lines, culinary and secondary water lines, storm drainage systems, sanitary
   sewer systems, electrical power, cable, and telephone with all poles, wires,
   pipes, and structures as necessary to provide services, and surface
   improvements such sidewalks, curbs, gutters, and streets.
81.101. “Vehicle” means a self-propelled device used for transporting persons or
   things, including, but not limited to, automobiles, watercraft, motorcycles,
   snowmobiles, and recreation vehicles. Does not include heavy machinery.
82.102. “Vehicle, Commercial” means any motorized vehicle or trailer used for or
   intended for business use - including but not limited to the transportation of
   commercial equipment, merchandise, produce, freight, commodities,
   passengers, or animals - and which is characterized by any of the following:
   a. Heavy equipment, such as earth movers, backhoes, cranes, forklifts,
      bulldozers, and the like, which are commonly used for construction,
      excavation, demolition, or lifting;
      b. Vehicles used to haul equipment or materials, such as dump trucks, tanker
         trucks, semi-tractors, semi-trailers, cement trucks, or other similar vehicles;
      c. Pickup trucks over one ton with a commercial modification, such as a flat bed,
         a dumping mechanism, mechanical lifts or arms for loading and unloading
         materials/equipment, aerial buckets or platforms, or other similar feature;
      d. Vehicles with more than two axles; or
      e. Vehicles with a payload capacity of more than eight thousand five hundred
         (8,500) pounds.
83.103.     "Waiver" means permission to depart from the requirements of an
   Ordinance with respect to the application of a specific regulation.
19.04.030 Site Standard Definitions
A. Site Development terms used in Title 19 are defined as follows:
   1. “Active Recreation” means activities that involve inactive or less energetic activities
      often performed by leisurely walking or conducting small group gatherings that do
      not require physical activity.
   2. “Arterial Street” means a street, existing or proposed, which serves or is intended
      to serve as a major traffic way and which is designated on the UDOT Functional
      Classification Map as a controlled-access highway, limited-access road, major
      street, parkway or by equivalent terms suitable to identify streets comprising the
      basic structure of the street plan.
   3. “All Weather Surface” means a surface composed of gravel, stone, macadam, or
      other approved pervious material, with sufficient depth and compaction to permit
      vehicular traffic in extremely inclement weather.
   4. “Alley” means a public or private way which affords a secondary means of access
      to abutting property.
   5. “Basement” means any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a
      floor level in a building having only one (1) floor level shall be classified as a base-
      ment unless such floor level qualifies as a first story.
   6. “Base Density” means the original density permitted under the property’s zoning
      category, in dwelling units per acre.
   7. “Buildable Area” means a lot or portion thereof possessing all of the following phys-
      ical characteristics:
      a. The area contains no territory having a slope of thirty percent (30%) or greater;
      b. The area contains no territory which is located in any identified floodplain or
         within any recognized inundation zone, mudflow zone or zone of deformation,
         or lands subject to earth slippage, landslide or rockfall;
   c. The engineering properties of the soil provide adequate structural support for
      the intended use; and
   d. The area does not possess any other recognized natural condition which ren-
      ders it unsafe for building purposes.
8. “Building” means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for
   the housing or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels.
9. “Building Alteration” means any act or process that changes the architectural de-
   tail, function, or structural design of a building, including but not limited to the erec-
   tion, construction, reconstruction, or removal of any building.
10. “Building Coverage” means the maximum horizontal area within the outer perime-
    ter of the building walls, dividers, or columns at ground level or above, whichever
    is the greater area, including, without limitation, courts and exterior stairways, but
    excluding:
   a. Uncovered decks, porches, patios, terraces, and stairways all less than thirty
      inches high; and
   b. The outer four feet of completely open, uncovered, cantilevered balconies hav-
      ing a minimum of eight feet (8’) of vertical clearance below.
11. “Building Envelope” means the building pad, building footprint, and height re-
    strictions, which define the maximum building area in which all development must
    occur. The building envelop is the area that remains for placing a structure on a
    site after building line, setback, side yard, height and bulk regulations are ob-
    served.
12. “Building Facade” means the exterior of a building located above ground and gen-
    erally visible from public points of view.
13. “Building Footprint” means the total area of the foundation of a structure, or the
    furthest exterior wall or supporting column of the structure. Decks, porches, patios,
    stairways, terraces, planter boxes and balconies that are both uncovered and less
    than thirty feet (30’) tall, measured from the finished grade are not part of the build-
    ing footprint.
14. “Building Height” means the vertical distance above the natural grade at any point
    on the perimeter of the building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or
    to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to a level midway between the level of the
    eaves and the highest point of pitched or hipped roofs, or to a level two-thirds of
    the distance from the level of the eaves to the highest point of gambrel roofs. For
    purposes of measuring height, the “level of the eaves” means the highest level
    where the plane of the roof intersects the plane of the outside wall on any side
    containing an eave. Buildings may be stepped to accommodate the slope of the
    terrain provided that each step shall be at least twelve feet in horizontal dimension.
    The height of each stepped building segment shall be measured separately.
15. “Building Street Frontage” means the portion of the building directly fronting or ad-
    jacent to the street. Building Street Frontage is calculated by dividing the portion
   of the building at the build-to-line or within a specified distance of the build-to-line
   by the street frontage.
16. “Build-to-Line” means the maximum distance a building may be setback from a
    property line or other designated location. The purpose of a build-to-line is to bring
    structures adjacent to streets and sidewalks to encourage pedestrian activity.
17. “Collector Street” means a street which carries traffic from local streets to the Ar-
    terial Street system, including the principal entrance streets of residence develop-
    ment and the primary circulating streets within such a development. A collector
    street may have prohibited movements and the number and spacing of driveways
    may be controlled.
18. “Cul-de-sac” means a minor street having one open end and being terminated at
    the other by a vehicular turnaround.
19. “Dedication” means the setting aside of land by an owner for any public use for the
    enjoyment of the public and owned by a public agency.
20. “Entrance” means the location of ingress to a room, building, or lot; a location of
    admittance.
21. “Exit” means the location of egress from a room, building, or lot.
22. “Fence” means any tangible barrier, latticework, screen, wall, hedge, or continuous
    growth of shrubs or trees with the purpose of, or having the effect of, preventing
    passage or view across the fence line.
23. “Final Plat” means a plat map prepared in accordance with the provisions of this
    ordinance for the purpose of subdividing property. A final plat must be based on
    an accurate survey, and such survey marked on the ground so that streets, alleys,
    blocks, lots, and other divisions thereof can be identified.
24. “Frontage” means the uninterrupted linear or curvilinear extent of a lot, abutting on
    a street, measured along the street right-of-way from the intersection of one side
    lot line to the intersection of the other side lot line. The measurement of lot frontage
    shall not include irregularities in the street line and, in the case of a corner lot, shall
    extend to the point of intersection of the rights-of-way. If a lot has frontage on more
    than one street, only the frontage on one street may be used to satisfy the mini-
    mum lot frontage.
25. “Grade, Finished” means the topographic elevations where the earth meets the
    building, upon project completion. Excluded from this definition are window wells
    serving basement rooms. Also referred to as “final grade”.
26. “Grade, Natural” means the topographic elevations representing the surface of the
    ground prior to grading, filling, or other site alterations for a project. When natural
    grade is not readily apparent, an approximation of preexisting conditions using
    grades on adjacent sites, retaining walls, prior survey maps, etc., may be used as
    a reference for determining natural grade. All such grade approximations shall re-
    quire the concurrence of the Director. “Grade, Natural” is also referred to as “ex-
    isting grade”.
27. “Green Space” means open space maintained in a natural, undisturbed, or reveg-
    etated condition.
28. “Guarantee” means a bond, escrow or irrevocable letter of credit given by the ap-
    plicant(a) to ensure the proper installation of public infrastructure and improve-
    ments.
29. “Intensity” means the concentration of activity, such as a combination of the num-
    ber of people, cars, visitors, customers, hours of operation, outdoor advertising,
    etc.; also, the size of buildings or structures, the most intense being higher, longer
    and/or wider.
30. “Lot” means a parcel of land occupied or proposed to be occupied by a building or
    buildings, together with such yards, open spaces, lot width, and lot areas as are
    required by this Title, having frontage upon a street or a right-of-way approved by
    a Land Use Hearing Officer, or upon a right-of-way not less than twenty feet (20’)
    wide. Except as provided in this Title, not more than one (1) dwelling structure shall
    occupy one (1) lot.
31. “Lot, Corner” means a lot abutting on two intersecting or intercepting streets, where
    the interior angle of intersection or interception does not exceed one hundred
    thirty-five degrees.
32. “Lot, Double Fronting” means a lot having frontage on two (2) streets that are par-
    allel or nearly so or do not intersect.
33. “Lot, Interior” means a lot other than a corner lot.
34. “Lot Line Adjustment” means the relocation of the property boundary line in a sub-
    division between two adjoining lots with the consent of the owners of record. “Lot
    Line Adjustment” does not mean a new boundary line that creates an additional lot
    or constitutes a subdivision or a subdivision amendment.
35. “Lot Line, Front” means the front boundary line of a lot bordering the street.
36. “Lot Line, Rear” means a lot line that is opposite and most distant from the front lot
    line. In the case of an irregular-shaped lot, the rear lot line shall be that lot line that
    is generally parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line, having
    a length of at least ten feet (10').
37. “Lot Line, Side” means any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
38. “Lot Width” means the distance between the side lot lines measured at the required
    front yard setback line. For a corner lot, the lot width is the distance between one
    of the front lot lines and the opposite side yard line at the required front yard set-
    back line.
39. “Primary building” means the principal building or one of the principal buildings
    upon a lot, or the building or one of the principal buildings housing a principal use
    upon a lot.
40. “Major Local Street” means a street, existing or proposed, which serves or is in-
    tended to serve to connect minor local streets with collector streets while also
   providing direct access to property. A major local street has more continuity for
   through-traffic than a minor local street.
41. “Marginal Access Street” means a local street, parallel and adjacent to a minor
    arterial or minor collector street providing access to abutting properties and pro-
    tection from arterial or collector streets.
41.42.     “Natural Open Space” means land in a predominately open and undevel-
   oped condition that is suitable for any of the following: natural areas; wildlife and
   native plant habitat; important wetlands or watershed lands; stream corridors; pas-
   sive, low-impact activities; little or no land disturbance; or trails for non-motorized
   activities.
42.43.    “Off Street Parking” means a site or a portion of a site, devoted to the off-
   street parking of vehicles, including parking spaces, aisles, access drives, and
   landscaped areas, and providing vehicular access to a public street.
43.44.    “Organic Disposal Site” means a disposal site where settled or precipitated
   solid matter produced by water and sewage treatment processes is disposed of in
   compliance with the board of health requirements, using sanitary land-filling tech-
   niques, in a manner that does not create a nuisance or health hazard, that protects
   the environment, and will not cause a pollution source of water, air, etc.
44.45.    “Open Space” means an area of land or water set aside to be preserved or
   reserved for use by residents of the development. An expanse of lawn, trees,
   plants, or other natural areas. Any landscaped area of the site including: required
   yards, setbacks, walkways, and limited common areas. It does not include parking,
   driveways, or buildings with habitable space for primary uses, but may include
   buildings for the purpose of providing an amenity. Open space may be distributed
   throughout the development and need not be in a single large area. Open space
   may include sensitive areas, such as areas with 30% or greater slope, fault zones,
   floodplains, high water tables, and wetlands if they have been designed as an in-
   tegral element of the project. Any additional amenity that is located on the roof of
   a building shall not be considered open space.
45.46.   “Parking Lot” means an open area, other than a street, used for parking of
   more than four automobiles and available for public use, whether free, for com-
   pensation, or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
46.47.   “Parking Space” means space within a building, lot, or parking lot for the
   parking or storage of one automobile.
47.48.     “Passive Recreation” means activities that involve inactive or less energetic
   activities often performed by leisurely walking or conducting small group gather-
   ings that do not require physical activity.
48.49.     “Preliminary Approval” means an approval, with or without recommended
   alterations, given to a preliminary plat by the Planning Commission and provides
   the necessary authority to proceed with the preparation and presentation of the
   final plat.
49.50.     “Preliminary Plat” means a map or plan of a proposed land division or sub-
   division. A drawing that shows the perimeter boundary, topography, lot layout ar-
   rangement, street layout, and other features of a proposed subdivision, as speci-
   fied for a preliminary plat in the Ordinance.
51. “Public Utility Easement” An area on a recorded plat map or other recorded docu-
    ment that is dedicated to the use and installation of public utility lines, mains, ser-
    vices, and minor facilities.
50.52.    "Retaining wall" means a wall designed and constructed to resist the lateral
   displacement and erosion of soils or other materials.
51.53.   “Setback” means a distance from a curb, property line, or structure within
   which building is prohibited.
52.54.    “Side Yard, Corner Lot” means a side lot line that abuts a street.
53.55.     “Side Yard, Interior Lot” means a side lot line that abuts a side or rear lot
   line of another lot.
54.56.    “Stealth Design” means the use of alternative support structures to blend or
   hide the communication equipment with the design, shape, or color of the struc-
   ture. Examples of stealth design include field lights, clock towers, bell towers, water
   towers, flagpoles, windmills, monuments, etc.
55.57.     “Story” means that portion of a building included between the upper surface
   of any floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
   story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of the
   topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level directly above
   a usable or unused underfloor space is more than six feet above grade for more
   than fifty percent of the total perimeter or is more than twelve feet above grade at
   any point, such usable or unused underfloor space will be considered as a story.
56.58.     “Story, First” means the lowest story in a building that qualifies as a story,
   except that a floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified
   as a first story, provided such floor level is not more than four feet below grade for
   more than fifty percent of the total perimeter, or not more than eight feet below
   grade at any point.
57.59.    “Story, Half” means a story with at least two of its opposite sides situated in
   a sloping roof, the floor area of which does not exceed two-thirds of the floor im-
   mediately below it.
58.60.    “Yard” means a space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and unob-
   structed from the ground upward by buildings or structures, except as ”provided
   herein.
59.61.     “Yard, Front” means a space on the same lot with a building, between the
   front line of the building and the front lot line, and extending across the full width
   of the lot. The “depth” of the front yard is the minimum distance between the front
   lot line and the front line of the building.
60.62.     “Yard, Rear” means a space on the same lot with a building, between the
   rear line of the building and the rear lot line, and extending the full width of the lot.
   The “depth” of the rear yard is the minimum distance between the rear lot line and
   the rear line of the building.
61.63.    “Yard, Required” means the open space around buildings which is required
   by the terms of this Title.
62.64.     “Yard, Side” means a space on the same lot with a building, between the
   side line of the building and the side lot line, and extending from the front yard to
   the rear yard. The “width” of the side yard shall be the minimum distance between
   the side lot line and the side lot line of the building. See “Side Yard, Interior Lot”
   and “Side Yard, Corner Lot”.
                                 SUMMARY OF
                                 KEARNS CITY
                            ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-__

On November 18, 2025, the Kearns Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-O-__, amending
Chapter 18.16, and Sections 18.14.150, and 19.50.190 of Kearns Code to: eliminate
reclamation bond requirements; bring performance and warranty bond procedures, and
final disposition and release requirements into compliance with recent legislation;
eliminate fees in lieu of the installation of subdivision improvements; eliminate the
requirement for any entity to sign construction plans, thereby subjecting an applicant to
requirements not adopted by Kearns city in violation of Utah Code; and eliminate language
allowing the City to withhold permits or occupancy for the failure to install private
landscaping.



By: Kelly Bush, Mayor



ATTEST                                         APPROVED AS TO FORM


_______________________________                ________________________________
Diana Baun, Recorder                           Nathan Bracken, City Attorney



Voting:

Council Member _______ voting ___
Council Member _______ voting ___
Council Member _______ voting ___
Council Member _______ voting ___
Council Member _______ voting ___


A complete copy of Ordinance No. ______________ is available in the office of the Kearns
Recorder, 860 W. Levoy Dr., Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah.
