Meeting Body: City of Kearns
Planning Commission

Meeting Date: September 9, 2024

File Number: OAM2023-001246
                                                   SUMMARY & BACKGROUND
Subject: Proposed amendment
to the Kearns Subdivision            The 2024 Utah State Legislature adopted House Bill 476 (HB
Ordinance, Title 18 of the Kearns    476), which amended various land use and development
Municipal Code, to comply with       requirements for municipalities and counties, including
review timeframes, review cycle      subdivision review procedures which Kearns updated to
limits, land use authority           comply with SB174 in January, 2024. The “effective date” of
designations and other               the amended subdivision review procedures is November 1,
amendments mandated by HB
                                     2024.
476. P (Public Hearing)

Applicant: Kearns City Council
                                                          ATTACHMENTS

Planner: Brian Tucker, Planning      The following attachments are included as supplementary
Manager                              materials to the end of this staff report:
Project Type:                        1.      Proposed revisions to Title 18, Subdivisions
Subdivision Ordinance Text
                                                          STAFF ANALYSIS
Amendment
                                     Issue before the Commission:
Areas Affected: All of the City of
Kearns                               HB 476 includes both practical and definitional changes that
Recommendation: Motion to            previously were not imposed. Many of our existing policies,
recommend approval of the            procedures, and provisions are already compliant, but the
proposed amendments to Title 18      City of Kearns has been advised by legal consultants, Jay
Subdivisions to comply with          Springer, attorney with Smith Hartvigsen, PLLC, that to
enrolled House Bill 476 of the       ensure clarity, consistency, and compliance with State Code,
2024 General Session of the Utah
                                     several text amendments to Title 18 are warranted (see
State Legislature.
                                     Attachment 1 – Proposed revisions to Title 18, Subdivisions).




                [HB 476 Compliance Amendments/ OAM2023-001246 / September 9, 2024] | Page 1 of 4
Legislative Mandate:

The primary relevant effects of House Bill 476 are:

•      Establishes that a subdivision improvement plan may be submitted with either a
preliminary or final subdivision application but may not be required for both;

•     Clarifies that a municipality may not require more than four review cycles for a subdivision
improvement plan review and this applies to either the preliminary or final stage of the process
depending on when the municipality requires a subdivision improvement plan be submitted;

•      Updates certain provisions relating to phasing and development agreements; and

•      Establishes that a municipality may not engage in a substantive review outside the review
cycle.

Notice:

Notice of the public hearing before the Planning Commission has been given in accordance with
Utah Code 10-9a-205 and Kearns Code 19.16.080. Notice was mailed to each affected entity.
Physical notice was posted at the meeting location 10 days prior to the public hearing. Notice was
posted on the Utah Public Notice Website, and Kearns’ official website, kearns.utah.gov.

Review Procedure and Criteria:

The City of Kearns Council is the legislative authority for subdivision ordinance text amendments.
The Council cannot amend the subdivision ordinance without first submitting the amendment to
the City of Kearns Planning Commission for the Planning Commission’s recommendation. The
Planning Commission must hold a public hearing and review and recommend an action to the
Council. The Council must then hold a public meeting at which they may adopt, adopt with
revisions, or reject the proposed text amendments recommended by the Planning Commission.

A text amendment can be approved if it is reasonably debatable that the decision could promote
the public welfare. It is not necessary to show that the decision actually promotes the public
welfare, or is the best alternative, as long as it is reasonably debatable that the public could benefit
from the decision. Similarly, a text amendment can be denied if it is reasonably debatable that the
decision could detrimentally impact the public welfare.




               [HB 476 Compliance Amendments/ OAM2023-001246 / September 9, 2024] | Page 2 of 4
                                  STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Planning Staff finds that:

   1. In accordance with House Bill 476, the proposed ordinance establishes that a municipality
      may now require a subdivision improvement plan to be submitted with a subdivision
      application but cannot require that the improvement plan be submitted with both the
      preliminary AND the final plan;

   2. In accordance with House Bill 476, the proposed ordinance establishes the review cycle
      requirements apply to whichever subdivision plan (either preliminary or final) that the
      subdivision improvement plan is submitted with;

   3. In accordance with House Bill 476, the proposed ordinance does not provide for
      substantive review to occur outside the review cycle;

   4. The proposed ordinance provides for timeframes in line with those required by House Bill
      476;

   5. In accordance with House Bill 476, the proposed ordinance does not require a completion
      assurance bond for or dictate who installs or is responsible for the cost of the landscaping
      of residential lots or the equivalent open space surrounding single-family attached homes,
      whether platted as lots or common area;

   6. The proposed amendment does not alter the subdivision process to any greater extent
      that mandated by HB 476; and

   7. The proposed amendment does not affect any specific land use or property within the
      City, applying only to future applications to subdivide land within the City of Kearns.

Given the above findings, staff recommends the following action:

       Motion to recommend approval of the proposed amendments to Title 18 Subdivisions to
       comply with enrolled House Bill 476 of the 2024 General Session of the Utah State Legislature
       and improve overall clarity of Title 18.

                        POTENTIAL PLANNING COMMISSION ACTIONS

The Planning Commission’s role in the text amendment process is to provide a recommendation
to the Kearns Council. After taking public comment, the Planning Commission could take any of
the following actions, among others:

Option 1. Recommended approval of the attached ordinance to the Kearns Council subject to
          staff and legal counsel’s non-substantive and technical changes.

Option 2. Recommended approval of the attached ordinance to the Kearns Council with changes
          subject to staff and legal counsel’s non-substantive and technical changes.


               [HB 476 Compliance Amendments/ OAM2023-001246 / September 9, 2024] | Page 3 of 4
Option 3. Recommend that the Council deny the proposed ordinance.




             [HB 476 Compliance Amendments/ OAM2023-001246 / September 9, 2024] | Page 4 of 4
