Meeting Body: City of Kearns
Planning Commission

Meeting Date: June 3, 2024

Planner: Kayla Mauldin, Senior                               SUMMARY
Long Range Planner
                                      On June 3rd, 2024, planning staff will present amendments
Project Name and File Number:
                                      to Kearns Zoning Ordinance, Chapter 19.38 – Public
Amendment to Kearns Zoning
Ordinance, Chapter 19.38 Public       Facilities and Institutions Zones, to the Planning
Facilities and Institutions Zones     Commission for consideration. Following the scheduled
(OAM2024-001167)                      public hearing, the Planning Commission may make a
Project Type:                         recommendation to the Council regarding the drafted
                                      amendments. Kearns adopted comprehensive revisions to
        Amend Text Ordinance
                                      Titles 18 and 19 in 2023. When the comprehensive
Areas Affected: Kearns properties     amendment occurred, a few uses within the PF and PI
located within the PF or PI Zones
                                      Zones were unintentionally made non-conforming. The
Key Findings:                         proposed amendments located in Attachment 1 make
    •     A few uses within the PF    additional uses permitted in the PF and/or PI Zones.
          and PI Zones were made      Regular amendments to ordinances help to keep Kearns
          nonconforming when the      Municipal Code user-friendly, responsive to community
          Zoning Ordinance was
                                      needs, and compliant with Utah State Code.
          amended in 2023. The
          proposed amendments         The following amendments are being proposed:
          located in Attachment 1
                                      1.       “Commercial Recreation” becomes a permitted
          make additional uses
          permitted in the PF         use in the PF Zone.
          and/or PI Zones.            2.       “Recreation Facility – Private, Public, or
                                      Commercial” becomes a permitted use in the PF Zone.
Staff          Recommendation:
Planning staff recommends that        3.       “Offices, related to primary use” is added as a new
the Planning Commission make a        permitted accessory use in both the PF and PI Zones.
recommendation of adoption of
                                                           ATTACHMENTS
Chapter 19.38 amendments to the
Council, with or without revisions.   The following attachments are included as supplementary
                                      materials to the end of this staff report:
                                      1.       Proposed Amendments to City of Kearns Zoning
                                      Ordinance, Chapter 19.38 – Public Facilities and
                                      Institutions Zones.
                                      2.     Map of parcels in the City of Kearns that are zoned
                                      PF and PI.



              Amendments to Kearns Code, Chapter 19.38 / OAM2024-001167 / June 2024 | Page 1 of 6
                                          BACKGROUND

Purpose of Proposed Amendments:

The Public Facilities (PF) and Public Institutions (PI) Zones accommodate public or quasi-public
uses in Kearns. Properties in these zones host educational facilities, athletic fields, civic spaces,
recreational facilities, and other related uses. Refer to Attachment 2 for a map of properties zoned
PI and PF.

When Kearns adopted comprehensive revisions to its Zoning Ordinance in 2023, a few of the uses
within the PF and PI Zones were inadvertently made non-conforming. A non-conforming use is a
use that, “lawfully occupied a building or land at the time the ordinance codified in this Title
became effective and which does not conform with the use regulations of the zone in which it is
located” (Kearns Code 19.04.020). By Ordinance, non-conforming uses are allowed to continue in
perpetuity, but there are restrictions regarding the expansion / enlargement of such uses or the
structures that they occupy.

Kearns highly values its existing public and quasi-public institutions and facilities, and therefore
wants to protect their ability to operate, expand, and remain sustainable in the long-term. The
proposed amendments found in Attachment 1 make “Commercial Recreation”, “Recreation
Facilities”, and “Offices” (accessory) permitted uses in both the PF and PI Zones. This makes
existing non-conforming uses, including those located within the Utah Olympic Oval, permitted
by right in the zones that they occupy. These amendments are intended to address the immediate
needs of the community. Planning Staff anticipates returning to the Planning Commission and
Council in the future to discuss long-range, strategic changes to the PF and PI Zones.

Amendment Timeline:

The proposed amendments are being introduced for the first time at the Planning Commission
meeting on June 3rd, 2024. Planning staff’s presentation of the proposed amendments will be
followed by a public hearing. After the public hearing, the Planning Commission may make a
recommendation to the Council regarding the ordinance amendments. The Council is expected
to consider the proposed amendments at their June 10th meeting.

In the future, planning staff may bring Chapter 19.38 back to the Planning Commission as a
discussion item. Properties within the PF and PI Zones include the Olympic Oval, Kearns Oquirrh
Park Fitness Center, and Oquirrh Hills Elementary School. The amendments proposed in
Attachment 1 are intended to address the immediate issue of the non-conforming uses created
by the 2023 ordinance amendments.




              Amendments to Kearns Code, Chapter 19.38 / OAM2024-001167 / June 2024 | Page 2 of 6
State Code Requirements:

State Code Section 10-9a-501:503 outlines the process for amending municipal land use
ordinances. The Planning Commission is responsible for holding a public hearing to consider any
proposed land use ordinance or amendment. The hearing must be noticed consistent with State
Code §10-9a-205. Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission may make a
recommendation to the Council regarding the adoption of the drafted ordinance amendments.
Only the Council (as the legislative body) can make a final decision on the ordinances.

Utah Code 10-9a-511 controls a municipality’s ability to regulate non-conforming uses.

Decision-Making Authority:

The Kearns Council, as the municipality’s legislative body, has the final authority to make a
decision regarding the proposed ordinance amendments. However, the Council must first receive
a recommendation from the Planning Commission. Following the May 6th public hearing, the
Commission may make a motion to:

   •   Recommend adoption of Chapter 19.38 amendments as drafted;
   •   Recommend adoption of Chapter 19.38 amendments with revisions; or
   •   Recommend that the amendments to Chapter 19.38 not be adopted.



                                   ORDINANCE CONTENT

Proposed Amendments:

Three amendments are proposed in order to reduce non-conformities in the PF and PI Zones.
Proposed amendments include:
   1. Changing “Commercial Recreation” from a prohibited to a permitted use in the PF Zone;
   2. Changing “Recreation Facility – Private, Public, or Commercial” from a prohibited to a
      permitted use in the PF Zone;
   3. Adding “Office - General, related to a primary use” as a new permitted use in both the PF
      and PI Zones.
The full amended language can be read in Attachment 1. The definitions of the affected uses are
provided in Table 1.




             Amendments to Kearns Code, Chapter 19.38 / OAM2024-001167 / June 2024 | Page 3 of 6
      Table 1: Associated definitions – proposed Kearns Code Chapter 19.38 amendments.

Use / Term           Definition (Kearns Code Chapter 19.04)                  Related Amendment
Commercial           recreational facilities operated as a business and      In the Table of Uses,
Recreation           open to the general public for a fee, such as golf      “Commercial
                     driving ranges and baseball batting ranges              Recreation” is changed
                                                                             from a prohibited (X) to
                                                                             a permitted (P) use in
                                                                             the PF Zone.
Recreation           a centrally or otherwise appropriately located          In the Table of Uses,
Facility -           place designed and equipped for the conduct of          “Recreation Facility -
Commercial           sports, informal recreation and/or leisure-time         Commercial”,
                     activities operated as a business on private or         “Recreation Facility –
                     public property and open to the public for a fee        Private”, and
Recreation           a centrally or otherwise appropriately located          “Recreation Facility –
Facility - Private   place designed and equipped for the conduct of          Public” are grouped
                     sports, informal recreation and/or leisure-time         together under the
                     activities operated on private property and not         term, “Recreation
                     open to the public, including recreation facilities     Facility – Private, Public,
                     owned by a homeowners' or property owners'              or Commercial”. This
                     association for private use                             use category is changed
Recreation           a centrally or otherwise appropriately located          from a prohibited (X) to
Facility - Public    place designed and equipped for the conduct of          a permitted (P) use in
                     sports, informal recreation and/or leisure-time         the PF Zone.
                     activities operated by a public agency and open
                     to the public with or without a fee
Office - General     a building offering executive, administrative,          In the Table of Uses,
                     professional, or clerical services, or a portion of a   “Office-General” is
                     building wherein services are performed                 added as a new
                     involving predominately operations with limited         accessory use, permitted
                     client visits and limited traffic generated by          (P) in both the PF and PI
                     employees and/or clients                                Zones.
Accessory Use        a use clearly incidental and subordinate to the         “Office-General” is listed
                     existing primary use and customarily related to         as a new accessory use
                     the primary use and located on the same lot or          in the Table of Uses.
                     in the same building as the primary use
Non-                 a use which lawfully occupied a building or land        Proposed amendments
Conforming           at the time the ordinance codified in this Title        are recommended in
Use                  became effective and which does not conform             order to reduce non-
                     with the use regulations of the zone in which it        conformities in the PF
                     is located                                              and PI Zones.




              Amendments to Kearns Code, Chapter 19.38 / OAM2024-001167 / June 2024 | Page 4 of 6
                                       STAFF ANALYSIS

Compatibility with Existing Plans and Ordinances:

The proposed amendments are minor and do not conflict with the vision of the adopted General
Plan. Kearns zoning districts were developed based primarily on the character areas (future land
uses) determined in the General Plan. However, PF and PI Zones are spread throughout the
identified character areas.

The Land Use Chapter of the General Plan includes the goal, “Preserve and enhance recreational
amenities and access to parks and open space”. The proposed amendments help provide for the
sustainable, long-term operation of existing recreational facilities. Amendments may be presented
to the Planning Commission in the future to better align the PF and PI Zones with the vision of
certain nodes within the City of Kearns.

Consistency with State Code Requirements:

The proposed amendments maintain conformity with State Code. State Code controls a
municipality’s ability to regulate non-conforming uses. The City of Kearns does place some
restrictions on the ability of non-conforming uses to expand. Modifying the list of permitted uses
for the PF and PI Zones helps reduce non-conforming uses.

Anticipated Impacts:

The proposed amendments impact the PF and PI Zones only. In total, 167.4 acres are zoned PF in
Kearns (composing approximately 7.2% of Kearns’ total land area). There are 210.8 acres zoned
for PI (approximately 9.1% of Kearns’ total land area). PF and PI Zones combined cover 378.2 acres
within the City of Kearns.

The proposed amendments are not intended to introduce new uses to these zones, but to protect
existing uses which had been made non-conforming by 2023 ordinance amendments. Existing
recreational facilities within the PF Zone include the Olympic Oval, Kearns Oquirrh Park Fitness
Center, Kearns Senior Center, and Kearns Recreation Center.

                                  STAFF RECOMMENDATION

MSD Planning Staff finds that the proposed amendments:

   1. Support the vision of the Kearns General Plan;
   2. Maintain conformity with Utah State Code; and
   3. Reduce the number of non-conforming uses within the PF and PI Zones.




             Amendments to Kearns Code, Chapter 19.38 / OAM2024-001167 / June 2024 | Page 5 of 6
Given the above findings, staff recommends the following action:

 Forward a recommendation of adoption of Kearns Code Chapter 19.38 amendments, as
 drafted in Attachment 1, to the Kearns Council. The recommendation may include
 revisions as deemed necessary following the public hearing.



                                          NEXT STEPS

Following the public hearing and a recommendation by the Planning Commission, the Council
may adopt, adopt with revisions, or not adopt the proposed amendments to Chapter 19.38 –
Public Facilities and Institutions Zones. These items represent text amendments ONLY, and do not
include any revision to Kearns’ official zoning maps. At a future date, planning staff anticipates
proposing additional amendments to the PF and PI Zones to address key sites identified in the
Kearns General Plan. The amendments introduced in June are intended only to address immediate
needs: protecting the long-term viability of existing recreational spaces by reclassifying them as
permitted uses instead of non-conforming uses.




             Amendments to Kearns Code, Chapter 19.38 / OAM2024-001167 / June 2024 | Page 6 of 6
                                              Attachment 1
Public Hearing Draft – June 3rd, 2024



                Chapter 19.38 Public Facilities and Institutions Zones.

19.38.010 -Purpose Of Provisions

Public Facilities and Institutions Zones are established to provide public or quasi-public uses.

    A. Public Facilities Zone (PF): The purpose of the PF zone is to provide areas for facilities
       owned by public and quasi-public entities which utilize relatively large areas of land. This
       zone is intended to provide immediate recognition of such areas on the official zoning map.
    B. Public Institutions Zone (PI): The purpose of the PI zone is to provide areas for educational
       institutions, municipal uses, and athletic facilities, whether publicly or privately owned,
       that host organized team sports. These uses utilize relatively large areas of land and are
       established for the health and betterment of the community at large. This zone is intended
       to provide immediate recognition of such areas on the official zoning map.

19.38.020 Scope

The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to any real property located in a PF or PI Zones as shown
on the official zoning map. No building, structure or real property may be used, and no building
or structure may be hereafter erected, structurally or substantially altered, or enlarged except as set
forth in this Chapter. Such requirements shall not be construed to prohibit or limit other applicable
provisions of this Title, this code, or other laws.

19.38.030 Schedule of Permitted Uses

    A. Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in the following schedule are
       permitted in the zones as indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions,
       additional restrictions, and exceptions set forth in this Title.
    B. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a
       combination of uses other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.38.030, the more
       restrictive provisions of this Title shall apply. For example, if a portion of a development
       is subject to conditional use (“C”) approval and the other portion is subject only to
       permitted use (“P”) review, the entire development shall be reviewed and approved by the
       conditional use process.
    C. Abbreviations. The abbreviations used in the schedule mean:

            1. P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional
               restrictions and approval processes as provided in this Title.
            2. C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional because of the unique characteristics
               or potential impacts on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses,
               incompatibility in some areas of the zone, or compatibility only if special provisions
               or conditions are required to mitigate the detrimental impacts of the use. The
               Planning Commission is the land use authority for uses with this designation.

                    OAM2024-001167 Draft Amendments to Kearns Zoning Ordinance, Chapter 19.38 | 1
Public Hearing Draft – June 3rd, 2024


            3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically
               identified in Table 19.38.030 is prohibited in this zone.

                 Table 19.38.030 – Uses Allowed in the PF and PI Zones.
 Use Categories                   PF                          PI
 AGRICULTURAL:
 No Agricultural Uses are permitted in the PF or PI Zones.
 RESIDENTIAL USES:
 No Residential Uses are permitted in the PF or PI Zones.
 RETAIL AND SERVICES:
 Child Care                       P                           P
 FOOD AND DRINK:
 See “Accessory Uses”
 RECREATIONAL:
 Commercial Recreation            PX                          P
 Private, Non-Profit              P                           P
 Recreational Grounds and
 Facilities
 Reception Center                 P                           P
 Recreation Facility -            PX                          P
 Private, Public, or
 Commercial
 Theaters and Concert             X                           C
 Halls, Indoor
 LODGING:
 No Lodging Uses are permitted in the PF or PI Zones.
 INDUSTRIAL:
 No Industrial Uses are permitted in the PF or PI Zones.
 INSTITUTIONAL USES:
 Church, Synagogue,               P                           P
 Mosque, Temple,
 Cathedral, or Other
 Religious Buildings
 Cemetery                         C                           X
 Community Garden                 P                           P


                    OAM2024-001167 Draft Amendments to Kearns Zoning Ordinance, Chapter 19.38 | 2
Public Hearing Draft – June 3rd, 2024


 Hospital                         P                           P
 Micromobility Support            P                           P
 Infrastructure
 Private or Charter School        C                           C
 Public Parks                     P                           P
 Public School                    P                           P
 Public Use                       P                           P
 Solar Energy System,             P                           P
 Accessory
 Wind Energy System,              P                           P
 Accessory
 Wireless                         P                           P
 Telecommunication
 Facility
 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
 No Planned Unit Development Uses are permitted in the PF or PI Zones.
 SPECIALTY:
 Park and Ride                    P                           X
 ACCESSORY USES:
 Sidewalk Displays and            P                           P
 Cafes
 Food Truck / Mobile              P                           P
 Restaurant / Food Cart
 Mobile Store                     P                           P
 Recreational Areas and           P                           P
 Facilities
 Solar Energy Systems             P                           P
 Swimming Pools and Hot           P                           P
 Tubs
 Office - General, related to     P                           P
 primary use
 Temporary Uses, subject to       P                           P
 19.44.




                    OAM2024-001167 Draft Amendments to Kearns Zoning Ordinance, Chapter 19.38 | 3
Public Hearing Draft – June 3rd, 2024


19.38.040 Development Standards

Any development in the PF and PI Zones shall comply with the development standards of Table
19.38.040 and all other applicable standards in this Title.




    A. Multiple parcels that are part of the same public facility “campus” may be combined in
       calculating the lot area.
    B. Public or Quasi-Public Buildings may be allowed additional height at a ratio of one (1)
       additional foot for every five (5) feet of additional setback above the minimum from the
       nearest adjoining residential use. In no case may the building height exceed sixty-five feet
       (65’).

19.38.050 Required Yards and Setbacks

Any development in the PF or PI Zones shall comply with the yard and setback standards shown
in Table 19.38.050 and all other applicable standards in this Title.




19.38.060 Additional Standards

It is the responsibility of the applicant to comply with all other standards of Title 19 and all other
municipal ordinances.




                    OAM2024-001167 Draft Amendments to Kearns Zoning Ordinance, Chapter 19.38 | 4
                                                             Attachment 2

PF- or PI- Zoned Properties in the City of Kearns (2024)



            PF Zone

            PI Zone




Several key areas in Kearns are zoned PF or PI, including Oquirrh Park / Olympic Oval, Kearns High School, Oquirrh Hills Elementary
School, and Lodestone Park. This map is for general reference only
