
CITY OF OREM
DRAFT BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT MINUTES
December 13, 2023


REGULAR MEETING

Place:City Council Chambers

At 6:05 p.m. Chair Jeffreys called the meeting to order and gave the invocation.

Those present:Ott Dameron, Paul Crossett (via Zoom), Carlos Iglesias, Karen Jeffreys and Leslie Nelson, Board of Adjustment members; Jason Bench, Acting Development Services Director/Planning Division Manager; Cheryl Vargas and Makayla Wagstaff, Associate Planners, Grant Allen and Matt Taylor, Senior Planners; Gary McGinn and D. Jacob Summers, Legal Counsel; Ryan Wood, Lehi City Attorney

Those excused:

Mr. Dameron recused himself from the discussion and voting on this issue as he has a personal interest in it.

Ms. Jeffreys explained that Agenda Item 3.1 is a continuation of the meeting held on November 29, 2023. The final decision regarding the appeal will be delivered at this meeting. 

Holiday Oil (Holiday) appeals City of Orem’s staff determination that their DRC application was incomplete for a Holiday Oil gas station and convenience store located generally at 1981 South Geneva Road in the C2 zone.

Board of Adjustment Action:  Chair Jeffreys called for a motion to go to a closed session. Ms. Nelson moved go to a closed session to discuss the things learned. Ms. Jeffreys seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Paul Crossett, Carlos Iglesias, Karen Jeffreys and Leslie Nelson. The motion passed unanimously.

7:10 pm: The meeting reconvened and Chair Jeffreys called the meeting back into session. Chair Jeffreys moved to adjourn the closed session. Mr. Iglesias seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Paul Crossett (via Zoom), Carlos Iglesias, Karen Jeffreys and Leslie Nelson. The motion passed unanimously.

Mr. Iglesias read the proposed decision (click here for recording)
Facts as presented:
August 16, 2023 City filed an application to amend Article 22-5-3 and the zoning map to rezone the property from the C2 zone to the PO (Professional Office) zone. City’s application was scheduled to be heard before the Planning Commission on September 6, 2023.
August 21, 2023, Holiday submitted their application for review which included a TIS. City staff processed the application and began its review.
August 28, 2023, the Office of Orem City Mayor and City Council sent a letter to residents in the surrounding neighborhood which characterized Holiday’s application as a “completed application”. The Orem City Attorney’s office reviewed the letter before it went out to the residents. Holiday received this letter on August 30, 2023.
August 29, 2023, Holiday received a packet of redline comments from the City of Orem DRC. The only transportation comment was to have the report submitted to UDOT for review and approval. Absent from the redline packet is notice of an insufficient TIS.
September 5, 2023 Holiday Oil submitted a revised application responding to the August 29th redline packet.
Prior to September 6, 2023 there is no evidence the City notified Holiday it’s application packet was incomplete.
September 6, 2023 the Planning Commission considered the City’s zone change application and forwarded a positive recommendation to the Orem City Council.
Sometime after September 6, 2023 the City determined that Holiday’s TIS was insufficient because it failed to meet the City ordinances.
September 20, 2023 the City notified Holiday that its application was incomplete. Absent from the record is an explanation for the City’s delay in making this determination of incompleteness.

The dates on this case are of particular importance. When the City filed an application on August 16th to rezone the property from C2 to PO, the vested rights clock started ticking because, City ordinances identify the consideration of a proposal by the Planning Commission at the regularly scheduled meeting as the formal initiation of the legislative process. For purposes of the pending legislation doctrine the September 6, 2023 Planning Commission meeting effectively became Holiday’s vested rights deadline.

If Holiday submitted a completed application before September 6th then it’s right to have the application reviewed under the Land Use Regulations in effect of the date would be vested under the Utah code 10-9a-509. And any subsequent change to the zoning would only apply prospectively. (click here for recording)

In this case, the Board concludes that as of September 6, 2023 Holiday’s application was complete for purposes of its vested rights. The Board’s conclusion is based on the following evidence:
August 28, 2023 a letter to the residents issued by the Mayor and City Council that although the Orem City Council strongly opposed the project and took aggressive action unfortunately, Holiday submitted a complete application on August 21, 2023 for a site plan that is consistent with the current zoning regulations. And as a result, Orem City had to accept the application and will have no other option than to approve it if the City process is followed.
During testimony at the November 29th meeting, the City admitted that this letter was reviewed by the City Attorney’s Office before being issued. The Board finds that when a letter is issued on official Office of the Mayor and City Council letterhead, reviewed by the City Attorneys Office and contains legal conclusions such as, Holiday submitted a complete application, it is indicative of the City’s determination that the application was complete especially in the absence of any evidence that the City provided notice to Holiday prior to September 6th to the contrary.
When the City of Orem DRC returned the packet redlines on August 29, 2023 without any notice to Holiday that the TIS was insufficient, the Board finds that this is also evidence indicative of the City’s determination that Holiday’s application was complete. The City argues that because Holiday’s application had not yet been reviewed by, and the packet of redlines was not produced by, the Real DRC but a review committee internally referred to as the Technical DRC the application could not have been considered complete. When pressed on this argument at the November 29th meeting, the City went even further and argued that the City does not consider any application complete until all redlines are resolved and the Real DRC votes at its public meeting to forward an application to the Planning Commission. There are two problems with the City’s reasoning. 
First, City ordinances do not identify a Technical DRC as a separate review committee apart from the Real DRC. There is nothing in the record to indicate that there is an official delineation between the Technical DRC and the Real DRC. The packet of redlines returned to Holiday on August 29th is titled City of Orem DRC. There is no indication, notation, footnote, etc. on the document that informs the developer that the packet of redlines are not from the Real DRC. There is nothing to alert the developer that the City has not yet determined whether an application is complete as it moves forward in the development review process. The City’s position is inconsistent with its own ordinance. In Orem City Code 22-14-20(C) Approval Process says the following: “The Department of Development Services shall forward a complete site plan request to the Development Review Committee (DRC) members for review.” From the objective evidence on the record, this is what happened in this case. Holiday’s application was forwarded to the DRC for review who subsequently returned redline comments via a document entitled City of Orem DRC. That required Holiday’s response and follow-up. Additionally, the ordinance makes no mention that all redlines must be resolved and that a vote by the Real DRC forwarding the application to the final approving authority is required before the City considers the application complete.
Finally, the record contains no evidence of extraordinary circumstances that prevented the City from making a determination prior to September 6th that Holiday’s application was incomplete. When asked for an explanation of why it took until September 20th to inform Holiday that its application was incomplete the City’s answer was the application was still being reviewed by the Development Services and Legal departments. The Board finds this explanation insufficient given the importance of the September 6th Planning Commission meeting. The record is clear that the communication between City staff and Holiday was ongoing and that Holiday’s application review was proceeding efficiently. Consequently, the lack of evidence excusing the City’s failure to inform Holiday prior to September 6th that its application was incomplete is conspicuous. Allowing the City to engage in such a practice leaves an applicant in limbo as to whether its application is ever truly complete and therefore its developmental rights vested. It is fundamentally unfair to allow the City to postpone the decision on whether Holiday’s application was complete until after the deadline for securing vested rights had passed. (click here for recording)

The Board finds that prior to the September 6th Planning Commission meeting the City considered Holiday’s application complete. The City’s letter of August 28th, the packet of redlines returned by the City of Orem DRC on August 29th, the City’s failure to notify Holiday prior to September 6th that its application was incomplete. Based on the above, the Board finds that the City’s determination after September 6th that Holiday’s application was incomplete was arbitrary, capricious and illegal. The City’s determination is therefore reversed and Holiday’s appeal is granted. The City is ordered to proceed with the review of Holiday’s site plan application and final plat application as described in City ordinances. The Board’s secretary is directed to comply with Orem City ordinance 2-16-13 as it pertains to the Boards decision. (click here for recording)

Chair Jeffreys called for a motion.

Board of Adjustment Action:  Ms. Nelson moved approve the decision. Mr. Iglesias seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Paul Crossett (via Zoom), Carlos Iglesias, Karen Jeffreys and Leslie Nelson. The motion passed unanimously.

Chair Jeffreys directed counsel, Mr. Wood, to issue the written decision within a week.

Minutes:  Chair Jeffreys called for a motion to approve the draft minutes of the November 29, 2023 meeting. Mr. Iglesias moved to approve the meeting minutes for November 29, 2023. Ms. Nelson seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Paul Crossett (via Zoom), Carlos Iglesias, Karen Jeffreys and Leslie Nelson. The motion passed unanimously.

Adjourn:  Chair Jeffreys called for a motion to adjourn. Mr. Iglesias moved to adjourn. Ms. Jeffreys seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Paul Crossett (via Zoom), Carlos Iglesias, Karen Jeffreys and Leslie Nelson. The motion passed unanimously.

Adjourn:  7:24 p.m.


22561557810500
Jason Bench


Approved: 
