                                               CITY OF OREM
                                          CITY COUNCIL MEETING
                                        56 North State Street Orem, Utah
                                                 June 29, 2021

3:00 P.M. WORK SESSION - CITY COUNCIL CONFERENCE ROOM

CONDUCTING                                      Mayor Richard F. Brunst

ELECTED OFFICIALS                               Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Tom Macdonald, Terry
                                                Peterson, David Spencer, and Brent Sumner.

APPOINTED STAFF                                 Jamie Davidson, City Manager; Brenn Bybee, Assistant
                                                City Manager; Steven Downs, Deputy City Manager;
                                                Heather Schriever, City Attorney; Marc Sanderson, Fire
                                                Chief; Joshua Adams, Police Chief; Ryan Clark,
                                                Development Services Director; Charlene Crozier,
                                                Library Director; Jason Bench, Planning Division
                                                Manager; and JoD’Ann Bates, City Recorder

  NOTE: The referenced report and presentation documents for each discussion may be
          viewed at orem.org/meetings under “City Council Presentations”


       TOUR - “The Green at Campus Drive”

Mayor Brunst, the Council, and City Staff met with Redstone Property Management to tour The
Green at Campus Drive, located at 499 W 960 S St in Orem.


       DISCUSSION - ARPA (American Rescue Plan Act)

Mr. Downs reviewed the proposal of the Rescue Plan which included the following:
   - Overview/The city of orem received just over $16 in ARPA Funding
   - General Guidance from the Treasury
   - Eligible Uses of Funds
   - Public Health/Key Questions
   - Economic Impacts/Key Questions
   - Impacted Communities/Key Questions and Examples
   - Premium Pay/Key Questions

         City Council Minutes - June 29, 2021 (pg.1)             A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                                 www.orem.org/meetings
   -   Infrastructure: Water/Key Questions and examples
   -   Infrastructure: Broadband/Key Questions and examples
   -   Administrative Expenses/Key Questions and examples
   -   Reporting Requirements
   -   Possible Projects Being Explored
           - Funding for Hillcrest Park
           - New City Hall
   -   Next Steps

General discussion ensued regarding fund use and what kind of projects are eligible to be
subsidized through this funding.


       UPDATE - Holiday Activities

Mr. Sanderson’s reviewed issues with the upcoming holidays which included the following:
   - Areas of fire concern
   - East Bench/Vineyard/Lindon
   - Fireworks Restrictions
   - Holiday extra patrol coverage

Mr. Sanderson stated the fire department does not recommend issuing a city-wide firework ban,
seeing there are only a few key areas that are considered large fire hazards. He then discussed
how there will be extra patrols and crews ready to respond to any incidents that may arise.


       UPDATE - Water Tank Property

Mr. Davidson reviewed the current update of the water tank property which included the
following:
    - Typical Water Tank Sites
    - Sego Lily Gardens, Sandy
    - Orem Heritage Park
    - Orem Heritage Park - Demonstration Garden

General discussion ensued regarding potential features this water tank property could host,
logistical concerns such as parking for an area like this, the messaging the city wants to convey
with the project, and the timeline for said project. The council then expressed that they are all in
agreement and on the same page with this project.



          City Council Minutes - June 29, 2021 (pg.2)    A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                         www.orem.org/meetings
       DISCUSSION - Fraud Risk Assessment

Mr. Nelson handed out a Fraud Risk Assessment Questionnaire.

General discussion ensued regarding auditing, how citizens and employees can report possible
fraud, a possible fraud hotline, and other Fraud Risk items presented on the handout.


6:00 P.M. REGULAR SESSION - COUNCIL CHAMBERS

CONDUCTING                                       Mayor Richard F. Brunst

ELECTED OFFICIALS                                Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Tom Macdonald, Terry
                                                 Peterson, David Spencer, and Brent Sumner

APPOINTED STAFF                                  Jamie Davidson, City Manager; Brenn Bybee, Assistant
                                                 City Manager; Steven Downs, Deputy City Manager;
                                                 Heather Schriever, City Attorney; Marc Sanderson, Fire
                                                 Chief; Joshua Adams, Police Chief; Ryan Clark,
                                                 Development Services Director; Charlene Crozier,
                                                 Library Director; Chris Tschirki, Public Works Director;
                                                 Brandon Nelson, Finance Director; Jason Bench, Planning
                                                 Division Manager; Steve Earl, Deputy City Attorney; and
                                                 JoD’Ann Bates, City Recorder

CALL TO ORDER

INVOCATION / INSPIRATIONAL THOUGHT Jim Lauret
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE Debby Lauret

MAYOR’S REPORT/ITEMS REFERRED BY COUNCIL

PERSONAL APPEARANCES

Time was allotted for the public to express their ideas, concerns, and comments on items not
scheduled as public hearings on the agenda. Those wishing to speak should have signed in prior
to the meeting, and comments were limited to three minutes or less.




          City Council Minutes - June 29, 2021 (pg.3)            A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                                 www.orem.org/meetings
Kathrine Christensen stated her family owns around 5 acres of land in the North Village District
(NVD) zone. Mrs. Christensen expressed her family's property was rezoned without notification,
causing her property taxes to increase dramatically.

LaNae Millet stated there is Utah State Law called The Land Use, Development, and
Management Act. (LUDMA) Which states that a council may adopt, modify, or reject Planning
Commission’s recommendations. She states that because of this and other similar state and city
laws and ordinances, the council can make large changes to land use regulations presented by the
Planning Commission. LaNae then stated a lawsuit from the developer challenging a City
Council vote on this matter would not hold up in court.

John Barrick claimed a land use application for the 1600 North property was incomplete. Mr.
Barrick read city emails regarding land use applications that were obtained through GRAMA
requests. Mr. Barrick also stated that some of his GRAMA requests have not been completed and
that is against Utah State Law.

Ken Millet expressed concern regarding traffic issues in the NVD zone, specifically access
points into the Quick Quack Car Wash. Mr. Millet asked the city council to close off the east-
side access to the property.

Jim Condie expressed traffic concerns pertaining to the 1600 N 400 W intersection. Mr. Condie
asked that The City conduct more traffic studies in the area.


CONSENT ITEMS

   ● APPROVAL OF MEETING MINUTES
        ○ Minutes of City Council Meeting - June 15, 2021
   ● MAYOR PRO TEM - July through December, 2021
   ● RESOLUTION - Sunset Heights Residential Parking Permit Program
   ● ORDINANCE - Amending Chapter 7 of the Orem City Code Pertaining to Building,
     Plumbing, Mechanical, Electrical, Fire, and Abatement Codes

Mayor Brunst moved to approve the Consent Agenda as listed. Mrs. Lauret seconded the
motion. Those voting aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Tom Macdonald, Terry Peterson,
Debby Lauret, David Spencer, and Brent Sumner. The motion passed.




          City Council Minutes - June 29, 2021 (pg.4)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                        www.orem.org/meetings
SCHEDULED ITEMS

       PUBLIC HEARING / RESOLUTION - CDBG Projected funds

Ms. Mathews stated that in response to the Coronavirus Pandemic (COVID-19), the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development Community Development Block Grant
provided the City of Orem with a second CDBG allocation of $287,940 to be used to prevent,
prepare for, and respond to COVID-19. The CDBG Advisory Commission recommends that the
Orem City Council allocates funding from the previously allocated $109,455 in second round
CDBG-CV funding for public service projects to the following projects: $25,000 to Meals on
Wheels to meet the increased participation in their program by seniors during the pandemic and
$24,773.32 for the City of Orem's Critical Home Repair and Home Rehabilitation program for
emergency home repairs.

Mayor Brunst opened the public hearing at 6:21pm. Hearing no comments, Mayor Brunst closed
the public hearing and brought the item back to the City Council for discussion.

Mr. Macdonald moved to approve the enterprise fund transfer. Brent Sumner seconded the
motion. Those voting aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Tom Macdonald, Terry Peterson,
Debby Lauret, David Spencer, and Brent Sumner. The motion passed.


       PUBLIC HEARING / ORDINANCE - North Village District Zone Height and Parking
       Standards

Mr. Bench stated staff proposes to amend the NVD zones to establish a maximum height limit
and to increase the parking requirement in the NVD-Core and NVD-Edge zones. 1. Maximum
height. A height limit of sixty feet (60’) is proposed for the NVDCore, NVD-Edge and NVD-
Res(A) zones. This height limit is taken directly from the C2 zone, which is the current zone of
almost all properties on State Street that are not included in the State Street Districts and was
also the zone that previously applied to the property currently in the NVD zones. The proposed
60 foot height limit would be a return to the standard that applied when the property was in the
C2 zone.
The proposed maximum height of 60 feet would be in addition to other, currently
existing height limits that are already built into the NVD zones including the
Following:
        a. Any development within seventy-five feet (75’) of a residential
zone has a height limit of thirty-five feet (35’).
        b. All new development must be set back from residential zones a
distance at least equal to the height of the building.

          City Council Minutes - June 29, 2021 (pg.5)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                        www.orem.org/meetings
        c. Buildings in the NVD-Res(B) zone have a maximum height of 35 Feet.
        d. A natural limit on building height based on the need to meet
parking requirements, which are based on the square footage of the
building. In other words, the larger a building, the more parking is
required. 2. Parking requirement. The current parking requirement in the NVD-Core and
NVD-Edge zones is 1.75 spaces per residential unit over the base residential
density. The current requirement for the NVD-Res-A zone is 2.5 stalls for units
with two or fewer bedrooms and 3.5 stalls for units with three or more bedrooms.
The proposed change would increase the parking requirement for the NVD-Core
and NVD-Edge zones to two stalls per residential unit over the base residential
30 density. No other changes to the parking requirement are proposed. The
commercial parking requirement and the parking standards in the NVD-Res-A
and NVD-Res-B would remain the same. As background information, the current parking
requirements for the NVD-Core and NVD-Edge zones were adopted by the City Council on
October 8, 2019, and were based on the Orem City Parking Study (2019), developer
recommendations, and city staff review including City Council discussions prior to the adoption
of the current standards.

General discussion ensued regarding parking standards and requirements, as well as zoning
around the Midtown and NVD zone area.

Mr. Lambson expressed it is important for the council to not only consider how a development
looks from state street, but also to consider how it looks from the neighborhood behind. Mr.
Bench responded that there are requirements that address that issue, such as current height and
setback standards. He stated there are many projects on large streets that border a residential
area. Mr. Bench brought up examples such as Smith’s on State, Target on Center, and Harmon’s
on 8th and 8th. Mr. Bench stated that these developments have setback and height standards to
remedy the issues Mr. Lambson brought up.

Mayor Brunst opened the public hearing at 6:39 pm.

Lisa Hill stated that comparing buildings such as Smith’s and Target to the proposed NVD Zone
Project is not fair because they have a back wall and nobody drives directly behind the Target
and Smith’s buildings.

Christina Much expressed she would like to see the height limited to 48 feet and have a 35 foot
setback.

Stephanie Visnaw stated she would like to see appropriate height restrictions put into place in the
NVD zone. Mrs. Visnaw expressed that she would like to see the area stay a small-scale

          City Council Minutes - June 29, 2021 (pg.6)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                        www.orem.org/meetings
development with a height maximum of 48 feet. Mrs. Visnaw also expressed concern that a poor
parking situation could arise in the area.

Jim Condie expressed concern with traffic in the area, and adding a high density housing
development would make a bad problem even worse.

Mrs. Mitchell stated she does not want to see Orem become another Salt Lake City or a large
metropolitan area. She expressed her concern about developing a high-rise apartment complex
and parking areas in the issues.

John Barrick recounted an interaction between Council Member David Spencer and an unnamed
staff member from the May 11th, 2021 City Council Meeting. In this interaction David Spencer
stated he heard the application from Knighton was not complete and was just thrown together.
The staff member responded that it was inaccurate. The staff member then stated Mr. Spencer
was getting misinformation. The application was paid for, complete, and only missing a few
minor things. Mr. Barrick expressed that he feels the ones who are actually receiving
misinformation are the Orem City residents. Mr. Barrick expressed his concern with parking in
the area.

Dan McDonald stated he is a lawyer representing citizens living near the NVD area. Mr.
McDonald then read state law pertaining to how zoning and other planning decisions can be
adopted or rejected. Mr. McDonald urged the council to listen to the citizens and to make the
right decision.

LaNae Millet stated the current zoning in the NVD zone is not a good fit. She expressed concern
for the safety of children and other residents in the area if traffic in the area gets worse than it is
already. Mrs. Millet requested smaller building height requirements in the area.

Spencer Peterson expressed concern with the traffic in the area, he stated children walking to
school are already unsafe as it is and adding a development in the area would make it worse.

Kieth Walker stated he has lived here for 65 years. He expressed how he wants Orem to continue
to be “Family City USA” and high-density housing should not be built in the area, and
surrounding cities should handle that instead. He also expressed concern with the traffic in the
area. Mr. Walker requests the City bring the height requirements down to keep Orem a family
city.

Craig Jacobson asked why the city would want to take a prime piece of property, and add high
density housing on it. Mr. Jacobson expressed they could possibly have something more
profitable such as a car dealership in the area instead.

          City Council Minutes - June 29, 2021 (pg.7)     A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                          www.orem.org/meetings
Greg Duerden stated that the City of Orem does not need more high density housing and should
build more single family housing in the area instead. He expressed he would like to see the NVD
zone high density housing development denied.

Lillian Simons stated that having a high density housing project in the NVD zone is a
“ridiculous” development. Ms. Simons asked the council to make progessive development
decision.

Mrs. Walker stated the traffic in the area is unsafe, and would get worse with a large
development in the area.

Kevin Hale asked the council if there was anyone that even wanted this development. He then
stated just how many people are against it.

Steven Hole explained what he thinks would happen to the area if this development passes. He
brought up things such as loud music, late night parties, a half empty parking garage because
cars would constantly be parked in front of residential houses instead, and trash in the streets. He
stated how he feels that no one can really do anything about the development. He then went into
more detail about current and future parking issues should this development be approved.

Kathrine Christianson stated that by allowing this development, the city would create unsafe
roads in small residential areas.

Dennis McDonald stated that he has talked to many people in the area, and not a single one of
them wants to see this development be built.

MaraLee Wipple expressed the traffic in the area is already unsafe, and a large-scale
development in the area would make the streets much more unsafe.

Mayor Brunst closed the public hearing at 7:21 PM

General discussion ensued regarding NVD zone height requirements, application approval,
zoning in the area, and what the council would be voting on tonight.

Mr. Peterson and Mr. Spencer asked for 48 feet in the core and 35 in the edge zone pertaining to
height requirements and discussed the possibility of voting on those numbers tonight. Mr. Steve
Earl warned against moving to vote on something that significantly different, seeing the
proposed change would not have been noticed properly and legal action could be taken against



          City Council Minutes - June 29, 2021 (pg.8)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                        www.orem.org/meetings
the city because of that. Mr. Spencer expressed that is a risk he would be willing to take. Mr.
Earl as well as other staff and Council members strongly warned against doing so.

Mr. Spencer moved to continue the item to a special City Council Meeting to be held on July
27, 2021. Mr. Peterson seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Jeff Lambson, Tom Macdonald,
Terry Peterson, Debby Lauret, David Spencer, and Brent Sumner. Those voting nay: Richard F.
Brunst. The motion passed.


       PUBLIC HEARING / ORDINANCE - FY 2020-2021 Budget Amendments

Mr. Nelson brought forward proposed amendments for the FY 2020-2021 Budget.

General discussion regarding various budget numbers and timelines.

Mayor Brunst opened the public hearing at 8:19 pm. Hearing no comments Mayor Brunst closed
the public hearing and brought the item back to the City Council for discussion.

Mr. Macdonald moved to approve by Ordinance the amendments to the City of Orem Fiscal
Year 2021-2022 Budget. Mrs. Lauret seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Richard F.
Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Tom Macdonald, Terry Peterson, Debby Lauret, David Spencer, and
Brent Sumner. The motion passed.


COMMUNICATION ITEMS

CITY MANAGER INFORMATION ITEMS

ADJOURN TO A CLOSED MEETING FOR CITY MANAGER EVALUATION

Mayor Brunst moved to adjourn to a closed meeting to discuss “the character, professional
competence, or physical or mental health of an individual”, pursuant to Utah code Section 52-4-
205(1)(a). Mrs. Lauret seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff
Lambson, Tom Macdonald, Terry Peterson, Debby Lauret, David Spencer, and Brent Sumner.
The motion passed.

The meeting adjourned at 8:21 PM.



CLOSED MEETING

          City Council Minutes - June 29, 2021 (pg.9)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                        www.orem.org/meetings
The closed meeting began at 8:25 PM.

The closed meeting adjourned at 9:50 PM.




                                                     _________________________
                                                      JoD’Ann Bates, City Recorder




Approved: July 13, 2021




      City Council Minutes - June 29, 2021 (pg.10)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                www.orem.org/meetings
