                                                  CITY OF OREM
                                             CITY COUNCIL MEETING
                                           56 North State Street Orem, Utah
                                                   March 10, 2020


3:00 P.M. WORK SESSION – CITY COUNCIL CONFERENCE ROOM

CONDUCTING                                       Mayor Richard F. Brunst

ELECTED OFFICIALS                                Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Tom Macdonald, Terry
                                                 Peterson, David Spencer and Brent Sumner

APPOINTED STAFF                                  Jamie Davidson, City Manager; Brenn Bybee, Assistant City
                                                 Manager; Steven Downs, Deputy City Manager; Greg
                                                 Stephens, City Attorney; Scott Gurney, Fire Chief; Gary
                                                 Giles, Police Chief; Ryan Clark, Development Services
                                                 Director; Charlene Crozier, Library Director; Chris Tschirki,
                                                 Public Works Department Manager; Brandon Nelson,
                                                 Finance Department Manager; Karl Hirst, Recreation
                                                 Department Manager; and JoD’Ann Bates, City Recorder


      TOUR – Devon and Exton Apartments

Randy Woodbury an owner and Alan Argyle, Project Manager with ICO gave the City Council a
tour of two of their most recent complexes, the Devon and the Exton Apartments located at
approximately 875 South 700 East, Orem.

Orem City Council and Orem City Staff returned to the City Center, 56 North State Street at
approximately 4:20 p.m.


     DISCUSSION – Southwest Orem General Plan Amendments

 Mr. Bench reviewed previous plans for the southwest area and continued to review the current
general plan. Mr. Bench indicated the question before the council today is due to the LDS (Latter-
Day Saint) temple coming to the area. The question is if they want to continue with the current
zoning or look at other options. Mr. Bench reviewed some possible options and general discussion
ensued regarding the definition of low and medium density.

Mr. Davidson stated the development staff has had some conversations with have met with some
realtor professionals and their suggestion is this area that is right for commercial opportunity. If
the nature if the density changes, then the attraction for commercial locating in that area increases.

Mr. Bench continued to discuss and represent how this would affect and increase ERU’s
(Equivalent Residential Unit) based on the different options along with impact fees and the


   City Council Minutes – March 10, 2020 (p.1)        A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
possible need for additional lift stations and improvements. He indicated some considerations the
Council needs to be aware of regarding making any changes:
    Updates to the IFA (Impact Fee Analysis) and IIFP (Impact Fee Facility Plan) would be
       needed in changes are proposed
    Revised design of the sewer lift stations would be required to accommodate increase
       density
    Potential Opportunity to connect the trail system
    Potential opportunity to create a new district area
    Opportunity to create a special PRD for the south west area.

Mr. Bench indicated if the council chooses to make changes there are other considerations that
will need to be taken into account regarding change and growth. Discussion continued regarding
those changes including a trail system that would tie into other pieces and eventually sidewalks at
the temple. This would take at least 6 months to a year for updates and public hearings in order
to ensure proper processes are taken.

Mayor Brunst stated he feels this issue needs to be a re-examined and would like to know what the
residents around this area would like to see.

Mr. Sumner indicated he was not excited about high density and feels he needs more information
as to what is going on with the temple and what people in the area would like to see before moving
forward.

Mr. Peterson stated he agrees with Mr. Sumner and would like to see what is possible to the west.

Discussion ensued regarding various ways they can propose zone changes and how that could
affect the area.

Mr. Davidson stated they are getting phone calls from property owners in that area indicating they
are interested in developing but what they want to do is inconsistent with the General Plan. That
is, to some degree, why they are discussing this issue, they need to try and align the interest of the
Council with the interest of the property owners. To some degree this discussion is the city trying
to be proactive in saying there are a few property owners waiting to see what we are doing. The
temple development caught them off guard and they are wondering if what they thought they
wanted for that area has now possibly changed.

Discussion continued and the Mayor suggested he would like a neighborhood meeting and get an
idea of what the residents would like in the proposed area. He would also like to look at what
other cities have done with properties around existing temples. There was a consensus from the
rest of the council regarding the proposed neighborhood meeting.


     Agenda Review & Preview of Upcoming Agenda Items
The City Council discussed the items on the evening’s agenda; Mr. Bench provided additional
information regarding the scheduled item.

       City Council Reports (Boards and Commissions, New Business, Etc.)

City Council Minutes – March 10, 2020(p.2)     A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
Mr. Davidson stated they are approaching the budget discussions and one of the largest items are
the CARE grants. He asked Mr. Downs to update the Council on current CARE applications.
Mr. Downs discussed with the council the upcoming dates for review and consideration of CARE
applications. He also continued stating the amount of funds that are available to be allocated to
each area and the discussion of new and existing applications ensued.

Mr. Davidson indicated they were down to 2 days in the legislation session. Mr. Giles and Mrs.
Schriever have done a great job representing the city’s interest. General discussion continued
regarding various general bills. Mr. Davidson concluded that for the most part the legislative
session has been focused on tax and education items.

Mayor Brunst indicated they met with the County regarding the restaurant tax and are continuing
to work through that issue.

Mr. Lambson stated he is looking forward to moving forward and being a part of the CARE and
the Utah Lake Commission. The Utah Lake Commission will be staring to meet, and he will bring
information back to the council in the future. He stated the Natural Resources Stewardship
Committee has met and he provided the Council with their goals and priorities for 2020.


6:00 P.M. REGULAR SESSION – COUNCIL CHAMBERS


CONDUCTING                                       Mayor Richard F. Brunst

ELECTED OFFICIALS                                Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Tom Macdonald, Terry
                                                 Peterson, David Spencer and Brent Sumner

APPOINTED STAFF                                  Jamie Davidson, City Manager; Brenn Bybee, Assistant City
                                                 Manager; Steven Downs, Deputy City Manager; Greg
                                                 Stephens, City Attorney; Scott Gurney, Fire Chief; Gary
                                                 Giles, Police Chief; Ryan Clark, Development Services
                                                 Director; Charlene Crozier, Library Director; Public Works
                                                 Director; Brandon Nelson, Finance Department Manager;
                                                 Chris Tschirki, Public Works Department Manager; Jason
                                                 Earl, Deputy Fire Chief; Jason Bench, Planning Division
                                                 Manager; Ernesto Lazalde, IT Division Manager; Pete
                                                 Wolfley, Communications Specialist; and JoD’Ann Bates,
                                                 City Recorder



INVOCATION /
INSPIRATIONAL THOUGHT                            Mike Cunningham
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE                             Wei Cunningham, Tiger Cub Pack 1706




   City Council Minutes – March 10, 2020 (p.3)        A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
MAYOR’S REPORT/ITEMS REFERRED BY COUNCIL

       UPCOMING EVENTS

Mayor Brunst reviewed the upcoming events, as listed in the agenda packet.


PERSONAL APPEARANCES

Time was allotted for the public to express their ideas, concerns, and comments on items not
scheduled as public hearings on the agenda. Those wishing to speak should have signed in prior to
the meeting, and comments were limited to three minutes or less.

Sissy Rasmussen stated she would like to share some celebrations from the new school, Centennial
Elementary which is made up of the old Hillcrest and Scera Park Elementary Schools. Centennial
has 780 students, a pre-school and a special ed group, which is similar is size to other elementary
schools in Orem. She shared some of her observations which include how beautiful the building
is, and all the bells and whistles it has, there are enough teachers and aids for all classes, they have
specialty classes, including a stem teacher and class which is the only one in all of Orem
elementary schools. She concluded that Centennial Elementary exceeded her expectation and
invited the City Council to visit the school and see for themselves.

Gary Morelly stated as residents that live on or near 2000 North, they have requested the utility
lines be placed underground. With a new sewer and water line being placed underground the
utility lines will be moved back into their property. Poles are a nuisance and all-round the city
they are already in the ground.


CONSENT ITEMS
      Approval of the February 25, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes
      ORDINANCE - The City Council will review and adopt an Ordinance creating a
        City of Orem Neighborhood Commission
      RESOLUTION - Support of a Pediatric Trauma Care Unit in Utah County
      RESOLUTION - City Compensation Policy and Philosophy

Mr. Macdonald moved to approve the Consent Agenda as listed. Mrs. Lauret seconded the
motion. Those voting aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Tom Macdonald, Terry
Peterson, and Brent Sumner. The motion passed.


SCHEDULES ITEMS

          CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT – Conditional Use Permit approval of a UVU/AT&T
          wireless telecommunications facility located at 1261 West 800 South in the M2 zone.

Mr. Bench stated the applicant is proposing to install a new wireless telecommunications
monopole with a height of 100’ on private property located at 1261 West 800 South.

City Council Minutes – March 10, 2020(p.4)      A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
The proposed monopole is designed to provide additional coverage and capacity along I-15 and
into the campus of Utah Valley University and the surrounding business areas. The requested
height is needed for the antennas to have better signal propagation over the freeway and into the
UVU campus. The 100’ height will also allow for two additional cell providers to co-locate on the
pole. The proposed monopole is steel with a galvanized gray color. This site will close a gap in
coverage and offer residents, businesses and visitors 4G LTE wireless service. This site will also
be capable of handling the 5G LTE network that will soon be implemented. The proposed site for
the monopole is 2,500 square feet in area and will be enclosed by a six foot high chain link fence
with barbed wire. A typical layout of antennas will be deployed on the monopole. AT&T and its
consultants examined numerous different locations for its proposed monopole before settling on
this site. One of the primary goals for the location is to provide coverage into Utah Valley
University. For various reasons, none of the other sites were acceptable. He concluded that the
Planning Commission recommends the City Council, by resolution, approve the conditional use
permit for a wireless telecommunications monopole located at 1261 West 800 South in the M2
zone.

Mayor Brunst inquired how high the fence around the structure would be and if they have given
access for the canal company. Mr. Rowe indicated he believes it would be a 12’ fence and they
have worked out access with an easement with no interference. He stated this facility will cover
gap areas that are currently existing throughout the UVU campus and surrounding area.

Mr. Macdonald inquired if they had any thought of making them look nicer than just a pole and
inquired if it was far enough away to avoid it falling on something.
Mr. Rowe indicated the monopole is a sleeker look than some of the other types that required
upkeep and it limits the co-location. The location is at least 150 feet way from any structure and
the poles are made to fold in half if the top is over stressed instead of falling over as a complete
pole.

General discussion continued regarding safety issues and how they have been addressed.

Mayor Brunst moved to approve by Resolution a Conditional Use Permit of a UVU/AT&T
wireless telecommunications facility located at 1261 West 800 South in the M2 zone as
presented. Mrs. Lauret seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff
Lambson, Debby Lauret, Tom Macdonald, Terry Peterson, and Brent Sumner. The motion
passed


CITY MANAGER INFORMATION ITEMS

City Manager had nor additional information at this time.


ADJOURNMENT

Mr. Spencer moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Macdonald seconded the motion. Those voting
aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Tom Macdonald, Terry Peterson, and Brent
Sumner. The motion passed.


   City Council Minutes – March 10, 2020 (p.5)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
The meeting adjourned at 6:23 p.m.


                                                      JoD’Ann Bates, City Recorder


Approved: March 31, 2020




City Council Minutes – March 10, 2020(p.6)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
