                                                CITY OF OREM
                                           CITY COUNCIL MEETING
                                         56 North State Street Orem, Utah
                                                  June 15, 2021

3:00 P.M. WORK SESSION - CITY COUNCIL CONFERENCE ROOM

CONDUCTING                                       Mayor Richard F. Brunst

ELECTED OFFICIALS                                Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Tom Macdonald, Terry
                                                 Peterson, David Spencer, and Brent Sumner.

APPOINTED STAFF                                  Jamie Davidson, City Manager; Brenn Bybee, Assistant
                                                 City Manager; Steven Downs, Deputy City Manager;
                                                 Heather Schriever, City Attorney; Marc Sanderson, Fire
                                                 Chief; Joshua Adams, Police Chief; Ryan Clark,
                                                 Development Services Director; Charlene Crozier,
                                                 Library Director; Jason Bench, Planning Division
                                                 Manager; and JoD’Ann Bates, City Recorder

EXCUSED                                          Debby Lauret


  NOTE: The referenced report and presentation documents for each discussion may be
          viewed at orem.org/meetings under “City Council Presentations”


       DISCUSSION - North Utah Valley Animal Shelter

Mr. Gettling opened by acknowledging the method of carbon monoxide euthanasia used by the
North Utah Valley Animal Shelter. He then ran through a brief history of the animal shelter and
mentioned services the center presents. Mayor Brunst asked how many animals the shelter
euthanizes per year. Mr. Gettling responded with 86.

Mr. Gettling then talked about why the shelter euthanizes using carbon monoxide. He stated the
method is very humane, with the animal losing consciousness painlessly, and expiring shortly
after. Mayor Brunst asked about cost advantages. Mr. Gettling responded that all methods
present roughly the same cost. Mayor Brunst then asked why so many would be protesting this
method if it really was humane. Mr. Gettling responded it was because protesters want to do
away with euthanasia entirely. Mr. Gettling stated many shelters do not use this method because


          City Council Minutes - June 15, 2021 (pg.1)             A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                                  www.orem.org/meetings
there are so many protesters, and they do not want to deal with the pressure. Mr. Gettling
continued they are doing research into the various methods of euthanasia and will present the
best perceived method to their board for approval. Mr. Gettling mentioned this research should
be done by July of this year. Mayor Brunst requested Mr. Gettling furnish the finished research
to the City Council.

General discussion about euthanasia methods.


       PRESENTATION - Bridal Veil Falls Park Study

Mrs. Wheadon asked the council about their thoughts on a state park in the Bridal Veil Falls
area.

General discussion ensued reagrding the Bridal Veil Falls area, including who owns how much
of the area, the qualifications that the area would need to meet to be able to become a state park,
and state park fees. The council expressed they do not want citizens to have to pay to use the
area.

Mayor Brunst asked Mrs. Wheadon when the study of the area would be done and if she could
send the study to the council after completion. Mrs. Wheadon responded that the study should be
done by October, and she would be happy to send them a final copy of the study.


       DISCUSSION - Proposed amendments to Sections 22-24-5(F) and 22-24-5(H) pertaining
       to design standards and parking standards of the North Village District

General discussion ensued regarding the process of ordinance amendments in regards to the
concerns and holding a special meeting where the public and the council could properly voice
their concerns and thoughts on the issue to each other.

Mr. Bench’s presentation included the following:
   - Outstanding Issues
          - Traffic Study
          - Parking
          - Height Restrictions
          - Setbacks

Mr. Bench stated that according to a recent parking study, there is more than enough parking
available under the current requirements.


          City Council Minutes - June 15, 2021 (pg.2)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                        www.orem.org/meetings
General discussion about parking at high density housing, parking studies, and parking
requirements.


       DISCISSION - Sunset Heights Residential Parking Permit Program

Mr. Paraskeva’s presented the following inforamtion:
   - Petition received on April 7th, 2021
   - Traffic Study Conclusion
          - Vehicles parking in the neighborhood are mainly from the apartment complexes
              on 800 South Geneva Road.
   - Residential Parking Permit Request
   - Orem City Code 19-5-5 (Designation of Residential Permit Parking Areas.)
   - Orem City Code 19-5-6 (Designation Criteria)

Mr. Sumner stated that in similar permitted parking areas, the city does not seem to do anything
about those who violate the parking limits and asked how this area would be different. Mr.
Paraskeva responded that the police are working on a civilian parking enforcement team to help
mitigate this problem. Mr. Paraskeva ended by stating that this issue is currently up for vote
during the city council meeting on June 29th, 2021.


       DISCUSSION - State Drought Declaration

Mr. Davidson reviewed regulations and suggestions from Governor Cox, including suggestions
pertaining to water conservation and fireworks.

He continued to review the following:
   - Drought 2021/City of Orem’s Mitigation Measures
   - What is a drought?
   - Utah Percent Area in U.S. Drought Monitor Categories
   - U.S. Monthly Drought Outlook
   - Orem’s Water Resources
   - Governor Cox’s Executive Orders
   - State water conservation practices
   - Orem’s Proposed Practices




          City Council Minutes - June 15, 2021 (pg.3)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                        www.orem.org/meetings
General discussion ensued regarding the City of Orem’s response to Governor Cox’s water
suggestions, recognizing wise water users, Alpine School District’s water usage, and firework
restrictions.


       DISCUSSION - Mayor Pro Tem assignment July through December 2021

Mayor Brunst suggested that Mr. David Spencer be appointed as Mayor Pro Tem. The council
agreed with the recommendation.


       Agenda Review & Preview of Upcoming Agenda Items

The City Council reviewed the evening’s agenda. Discussion ensued regarding the scheduled
items that would be considered.


       City Council Reports (Board and Commissions, New Businesses, ECT)

Mr. Peterson gave updates regarding the committees which he represents.


6:00 P.M. REGULAR SESSION - COUNCIL CHAMBERS

CONDUCTING                                       Mayor Richard F. Brunst

ELECTED OFFICIALS                                Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Tom Macdonald, Terry
                                                 Peterson, David Spencer, and Brent Sumner

APPOINTED STAFF                                  Jamie Davidson, City Manager; Brenn Bybee, Assistant
                                                 City Manager; Steven Downs, Deputy City Manager;
                                                 Heather Schriever, City Attorney; Marc Sanderson, Fire
                                                 Chief; Joshua Adams, Police Chief; Ryan Clark,
                                                 Development Services Director; Charlene Crozier,
                                                 Library Director; Chris Tschirki, Public Works Director;
                                                 Brandon Nelson, Finance Director; Jason Bench, Planning
                                                 Division Manager; Steve Earl, Deputy City Attorney; and
                                                 JoD’Ann Bates, City Recorder

ABSENT                                           Debby Lauret


          City Council Minutes - June 15, 2021 (pg.4)            A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                                 www.orem.org/meetings
CALL TO ORDER

INVOCATION /
INSPIRATIONAL THOUGHT LaNae Millett
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE Stephanie Visnaw

MAYOR’S REPORT/ITEMS REFERRED BY COUNCIL

Mayor Brunst read a certificate of recognition for the Timpanogos High School Girls Track
Team.

PERSONAL APPEARANCES

Time was allotted for the public to express their ideas, concerns, and comments on items not
scheduled as public hearings on the agenda. Those wishing to speak should have signed in prior
to the meeting, and comments were limited to three minutes or less.

John Barrick started by reading a section of the Orem State Street Master Plan regarding the
NVD zone. He stated the planned development in this region does not line up with the small-
scale developments that are meant to be there. Mr. Barrick then stated he would like to see a
meeting take place between the public and council members where they can discuss the issue
freely.

Stephanie Visnaw stated that a special city council meeting should be held regarding the NVD
zone. Mrs. Visnaw said the proposed development does not line up with that stated in the Orem
State Street Master Plan.

Erica Olsen stated that she received over 70 thousand signatures on a petition that she created to
protest the use of carbon monoxide euthanasia at NUVAS. Ms. Olsen then asked the council to
put an end to the gas chambers at the animal shelter. Ms. Olsen then presented a large roll of
paper consisting of over 13 thousand Utah State residents who signed the petition.

Julie Davey stated that she worked at NUVAS. She then said she had been diagnosed with PTSD
because of having to euthanize animals using the gas chamber. She then requested that the
council make a change and put a stop to this euthanization method.




          City Council Minutes - June 15, 2021 (pg.5)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                        www.orem.org/meetings
Taleen Perkins expressed that the gas chamber method is very inhumane, and the city should
change methods.

Trevor Bellaccomo said the average time it takes to euthanize an animal using a gas chamber is
30 minutes. He stated this is inhumane and they should switch to an injection method.

Kristin Burgi stated that she cannot stand the idea of animals being euthanized using gas
chambers in Orem.

Natalia Garcia stated that she owns a dog rescued from a difficult situation. She expressed how
important her dog is to her. Ms. Garcia then asked the council members to think about what their
family members would think if they did not solve this problem.

Megan Browning expressed that she would like to live in a city where if an animal was found, it
would be safe, instead of having it taken to a facility such as NUVAS. Because of this, she feels
that she needs to take care of these animals so that they have a safe place. She stated that she
should not have to do this.

Launi Bigelow stated that she would like to see a shelter with low cost spay and neuter options
and there are not any in Utah County. Ms. Bigelow then expressed how she feels the gas
chamber method is outdated at this point.


CONSENT ITEMS

   ● APPROVAL OF MEETING MINUTES
         ○ Minutes of City Council Meeting - May 25, 2021
   ● ORDINANCE - Approving the Amounts to be awarded to the CARE Grant Recipients
     for the 2021 CARE Granting Round

Mayor Brunst moved to approve the Consent Agenda as listed. Mr. Macdonald seconded the
motion. Those voting aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Tom Macdonald, Terry Peterson,
David Spencer, and Brent Sumner. The motion passed.


SCHEDULED ITEMS

       PUBLIC HEARING - Enterprise Fund Transfers




          City Council Minutes - June 15, 2021 (pg.6)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                        www.orem.org/meetings
Mr. Nelson stated on May 11, 2021, the City Council received a draft of the Tentative Budget for
the Fiscal Year 2021-2022. This budget contains a proposed transfer of funds from the utilities
to cover non-administrative or overhead costs to cover the City’s own use of City owned utilities.
The State Auditor requires that cities pay the retail rate for their own use of city owned utilities.
The City of Orem uses water, sewer, storm water and street lighting to supply its own properties.
These properties are primarily parks but also include the Cemetery, City Hall, Police Station,
Fire Stations, and other city properties.
The City has long built the cost of supplying these properties into the utility rates. The reasoning
behind this decision is that the taxpayers and the utility ratepayers are almost always the same
people. Therefore, the simplest way to cover these costs is to include them in the respective
utility rates.
Now that the city is required to pay the utilities for these services, the options available to the
city are:

1)      Increase property taxes to cover the cost of these utilities
2)      Cut services enough to free up the cash to pay for the utilities
3)      Transfer the funds back to the General Fund.
The first two options involve either paying more for the same services or paying the same for
lower service. By making the transfer the city can provide the same level of service for the same
fees.
The amount proposed to be transferred are:
Transfer From Amount % of Total Fund Expenditures
Water Fund             $900,000        5.0%
Sewer                  $16,000         0.1%
Storm Water            $141,000        2.6%
Street Lighting        $15,000         1.6%
Total                  $1,072,000
In the public hearing staff will review
•       Specific administrative and overhead costs;
•       Specific fund information
•       The proposed transfers

Mayor Brunst opened the public hearing at 6:40 pm. Hearing no comments Mayor Brunst closed
the public hearing and brought the item back to the City Council for further discussion.

Mr. Macdonald moved to approve the enterprise fund transfer. Mr. Lambson seconded the
motion. Those voting aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Tom Macdonald, Terry Peterson,
David Spencer, and Brent Sumner. The motion passed.




          City Council Minutes - June 15, 2021 (pg.7)    A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                         www.orem.org/meetings
       PUBLIC HEARING / ORDINANCE - Adopt the City of Orem Fiscal Year 2021-2022
       Budget

Mr. Nelson stated on May 11, 2021, the City Council received the Tentative Budget for the
Fiscal Year 2021-2022. Various budget work sessions were held between January and April
2021. In addition, two public hearings were held to review CDBG budget requests.
The purpose of this hearing is to consider the budget for Fiscal Year 2021-2022, along with the
compensation program and the fees, charges, and tax rates of the city.
Property taxes will not be increased, the franchise tax and municipal energy sales and use tax
rates remain at 6%, and the transient room tax stays at 1%. The telecommunications license tax
remains at 3.5% and the E-911 fee stays at the state allowed maximum rate per month. Various
adjustments and/or additions to miscellaneous fees and charges are proposed in many
departments.

Mayor Brunst opened the public hearing at 6:59 pm. Hearing no comments Mayor Brunst closed
the public hearing and brought the item back to the City Council for discussion.

Mayor Brunst moved to approve by Ordinance the adoption of the City of Orem Fiscal Year
2021-2022 Budget. Mr. Macdonald seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Richard F. Brunst,
Jeff Lambson, Tom Macdonald, Terry Peterson, David Spencer, and Brent Sumner. The motion
passed.


COMMUNICATION ITEMS
There were no additional communication items.


CITY MANAGER INFORMATION ITEMS
The City Manager had no additional Information Items.


ADJOURN TO A MEETING OF THE CITY OF OREM REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
(RDA)

Mayor Brunst moved to adjourn to a meeting of the City of Orem Redevelopment Agency. Mr.
Spencer seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Tom
Macdonald, Terry Peterson, David Spencer, and Brent Sumner. The motion passed.




          City Council Minutes - June 15, 2021 (pg.8)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                        www.orem.org/meetings
The meeting adjourned at 7:10 PM.




                                                             _________________________
                                                              JoD’Ann Bates, City Recorder




Approved: June 29, 2021




         City Council Minutes - June 15, 2021 (pg.9)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at
                                                                       www.orem.org/meetings
