                                                 CITY OF OREM
                                            CITY COUNCIL MEETING
                                          56 North State Street Orem, Utah
                                                   May 11, 2021

                                      This meeting was held electronically
                               to allow Councilmembers and Staff to participate.


3:00 P.M. WORK SESSION – CITY COUNCIL CONFERENCE ROOM

CONDUCTING                                     Mayor Richard F. Brunst

ELECTED OFFICIALS                              Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, , Terry Peterson, David
                                               Spencer, and Brent Sumner.

APPOINTED STAFF                                Jamie Davidson, City Manager; Brenn Bybee, Assistant City
                                               Manager; Steven Downs, Deputy City Manager; Heather
                                               Schriever, City Attorney; Marc Sanderson, Fire Chief;
                                               Joshua Adams, Police Chief; Ryan Clark, Development
                                               Services Director; Charlene Crozier, Library Director; Chris
                                               Tschirki, Public Works Director; Brandon Nelson, Finance
                                               Director; Jason Bench, Planning Division Manager; and
                                               Nathan Nelson, Clerk

EXCUSED                                        Tom Macdonald


      NOTE: The referenced report and presentation documents for each discussion
        may be viewed at orem.org/meetings under “City Council Presentations.”

        DISCUSSION – North Village District (NVD)

Mr. Hale stated the recent traffic impact studies for the NVD (North Village District) area show
there are some citizen concerns that the city agrees with. He then stated that he feels some of the
pre-covid numbers in this study are low and will need to be adjusted. Mr. Hale then said there
will be a handful of more intersections added to the new study. He also stated that in the next
submittal there will be accident and crash data included in the new study.

General discussion ensued regarding the process of submitting and approving traffic impact
studies, road lanes leading into the project, and how to make it safer to get into the NVD area.

 Mr. Peterson stated he was concerned about parking issues in other apartment complexes and
stated that there is not enough parking in these areas.

 Mr. Spencer expressed his concern that the proposed NVD zone is becoming too apart
mentalized and does not line up with what is stated in the State Street Master Plan. Mr. Spencer
asked Mr. Hale what would happen if the traffic impact study came back, and the numbers were
   City Council Minutes – May 11, 2021 (p.1)       A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
worse than expected. Mr. Hale responded they would investigate the mitigation, such as adding
deceleration lanes.

Mr. Spencer asked Mayor Brunst about what they can do to halt the development of the NVD
zone until they have everything figured out pertaining to the parking, the zoning, and the height.
Mr. Spencer suggested a special city council meeting be held solely to discuss these concerns.

 Mr. Spencer moved to hold a special City Council meeting to reopen and discuss issues with the
NVD zone. Mr. Peterson seconded the motion. Mr. Davidson interjected motions cannot be
made during the work session. Mayor Brunst asked Mr. Spencer and Mr. Peterson to write up the
changed they would like to propose in the NVD zone and make a proposal as to how those
change would be made.

General discussion ensued regarding high density, parking, traffic, and height requirements.


          CARE Major Grant Applications

Mr. Down reviewed the grant request applications from the SCERA, HALE, and Utah
Metropolitan Ballet. He indicated how all these companies took attendance hits during the
pandemic and showed the funds they are able to receive in order the help those losses.

General discussion ensued regarding grant applications and available funding.

Mr. Robertson reviewed the upcoming goals and events for the SCERA.

Mr. Swenson reviewed the upcoming goals and events for the Hale Theater.


          DISCUSSION – Water Code Update

Mr. Tschirki summarized upcoming updates dealing with water and sewer codes. He then turned
the time over to Neal Winterton.

Mr. Winterton discussed the small changes associated with the updated water code.
He stated they included making water meters more accessible to the city, adding a section on
mixed-use development, and general language changes for clarification.

Mayor Brunst asked about the process of updating the city's water meters. Mr. Winterton
responded there have been some delays, but should have over half the city engaged by next
spring.


       DISCUSSION – Municipal Wastewater Planning Program

Neal Winterton stated there is no action needed from the council, this is a yearly progress report
the Councils information. He continued to review the following:


City Council Minutes – May 11, 2021 (p.2)    A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
   •     What is a Municipal Wastewater Planning Program?
           o Water Reclamation section Water Resources Division Employees and
                Management
           o 3 Areas of the program which include.
                    ▪ Financial
                    ▪ Collection System
                    ▪ Mechanical Plant

Mayor Brunst inquired about fumes near the southwest plant that were previously complained
about. Mr. Winterton explained how they mitigate fumes and that they have not been complained
about in a few years. Mr. Brunst then asked about the algae blooms in Utah Lake and how those
are being addressed.


       UPDATE – Innovation Teams

Mr. Wolfley reviewed the credit card use in the city, and how those numbers have changed. He
continued to other projects that the Innovation Team has been working on and introduced two
new projects the team will be working on in the upcoming months. He reviewed the projects
indicated which include the following:

   •     Credit Card Cutting After 6 months
             o Total Credit Card Transactions
             o Total CC Fees in Transactions
             o Total CC Fees in Utilities
             o The Convenience Fee - $3.95
   •     In-Person Transactions
   •     The Convenience Fee - $3.95
   •     Utility Website Improvements - The Power of Frontline Thinking
   •     Recreation Innovations from the Frontline
   •     Orem Rec App
   •     New Websites
   •     Upstream Thinking Trainings
   •     Postage /cutting back on costs.
   •     Citizen Chat


       Agenda Review & Preview of Upcoming Agenda Items

The City Council reviewed the evening’s agenda. Discussion ensued regarding the scheduled items
that would be considered.


       City Council Reports (Boards and Commissions, New Businesses, ECT)

   City Council Minutes – May 11, 2021 (p.3)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
Mr. Sumner reviewed the committees in which he represents:
   • Smart Water meters
   • New Library Hall
   • Community Services actions


Mayor Brunst commented regarding the progress on the road and building updates and the
money received for those projects. He also mentioned multiple ribbon cuttings held for
companies in the past few weeks.

Mr. Peterson then asked for an update on Hillcrest Park. Brenn Bybee updated the council on the
current progress of planning.


6:00 P.M. REGULAR SESSION – COUNCIL CHAMBERS


CONDUCTING                                  Mayor Richard F. Brunst

ELECTED OFFICIALS                           Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Tom Macdonald, Terry
                                            Peterson, David Spencer, and Brent Sumner

APPOINTED STAFF                             Jamie Davidson, City Manager; Brenn Bybee, Assistant City
                                            Manager; Steven Downs, Deputy City Manager; Heather
                                            Schriever, City Attorney; Marc Sanderson, Fire Chief;
                                            Joshua Adams, Police Chief; Ryan Clark, Development
                                            Services Director; Charlene Crozier, Library Director; Chris
                                            Tschirki, Public Works Director; Brandon Nelson, Finance
                                            Director; Jason Bench, Planning Division Manager; Steve
                                            Earl, Deputy City Attorney; and JoD’Ann Bates, City
                                            Recorder.
CALL TO ORDER

Mayor Brunst read the following to begin the meeting:
“Pursuant to Mayor Richard F. Brunst's Proclamation dated March 26, 2021, the Orem City
Council meeting on April 27, 2021, will be an all-electronic meeting. There will be no anchor
location for the meeting. The city cannot ensure the recommended minimum of six feet of social
distancing for meeting participants at the usual anchor location in the Orem City Council
Chambers. Therefore, holding the meeting at the City Council Chambers would present a
substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the meeting and may
contribute to the spread of COVID-19. There will be no public access to the Orem City Council
chambers. Those desiring to view or participate in the meeting must do so electronically.

To view the meeting: please go to orem.org/meetings.
To make a comment: Please submit your comment through: orem.org/comments.


City Council Minutes – May 11, 2021 (p.4)          A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
Written comments will be accepted before and during the meeting. All written comments received
will be entered into the record and forwarded to each City Council member for review. Written
comments will also be read aloud during the live meeting when required by law or when time
permits. As technology permits, the City Council may also accept oral comments. Once an item
has been voted on, that item will be closed to additional comments. Thank you for your cooperation
during these challenging times.”

INVOCATION /
INSPIRATIONAL THOUGHT                          Jeff Lambson
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE                           Brandon Nelson


MAYOR’S REPORT/ITEMS REFERRED BY COUNCIL

     PRESENTATION – Heritage Advisory Commission

Mr. Prescott reviewed the number of veterans currently buried in Orem cemetery. He then
proposed buying a new flagpole in order to fly a P.O.W./M.I.A. flag near the Veteran’s
Memorial.


PERSONAL APPEARANCES

Time was allotted for the public to express their ideas, concerns, and comments on items not
scheduled as public hearings on the agenda. Those wishing to speak should have signed in prior to
the meeting, and comments were limited to three minutes or less.


Mayor Brunst stated due to the number of public comments received, he will be limiting this
time to 45 minutes

Jeremy Beckham expressed he is here on behalf of the Utah Animal Rights Coalition. He stated
that he is here today to follow up on North Utah Valley Animal Shelter. Mr. Beckham stated that
Orem City Contracts with this shelter. Jeremy brings up that there are only 4 animal shelters in
the nation that euthanize animals using a gas chamber, and North Utah Valley Animal Shelter is
one of them. He shared how inhumane and painful this is for the animals. He asked the council to
look at the contract that the city has with this animal shelter and add language to ensure that
animals are only being put down humanely through lethal injection.

Heather Johnson stated that she is concerned about the traffic on 1600 N 400 W. She stated that
the intersection gets backed up multiple times a day, and that there is no more room for extra
traffic that would be added by an apartment complex in that area. She also expressed how she
feels that a complex of 6 or 7 stories has no place in that part of Orem.

Jordan Farr expressed his frustration that no one, besides the builder, wants this project to go
forward. He also expressed that the impact on traffic and property values would be very
negative.


   City Council Minutes – May 11, 2021 (p.5)      A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
LaNae Millet thanked the council for recognizing the possible issue with traffic in the area. She
states that the 1600 N and 400 W intersection cannot handle any more traffic. She brought up a
traffic study from the Orem Transportation master plan, which stated the intersection is listed as
“failing by 2024.” She expressed that the damage to surrounding property values should be
enough to cancel this project. She then went into more detail about the traffic issues in the area,
and how a high-density housing project will make these issues worse.

Stephanie Visnaw started her statement by expressing that Orem City needs to resume their in-
person council meetings so that citizen voices can be properly heard. Mrs. Visnaw then stated
that the NVD area needs to be rezoned. She then expressed concern about the height of a high-
density housing project that could be built in this area.

Kathrine Christensen stated that her family owns 5 acres of land affected by this rezoning. Mrs.
Christensen says that because of the past rezoning, the property tax on her family’s land went up
a significant amount. She stated that this is farm property that has never been built on, and never
will be built on. She stated that this is inappropriately done. Mrs. Christensen then says how she
feels that the city is pricing her family out of the area to force them to sell the land, and that the
city needs to look at opening the area back up for rezoning. Mrs. Christensen then expressed
concern about the traffic concerns of that area.

Maralee Wipple stated that her family has lived in the area for generations. She expresses that
her husband and herself are strongly opposed to the development. Mrs. Wipple said that there
have been multiple times in the past where there have been these same kinds of development
issues in their neighborhood, and they have been able to preserve the neighborhood in the past
and hope to do that in the future.

Will Friden said that the community wants safe, smart, and responsible development in the
neighborhood, and he feels that this project is not that. He stated that the city did not talk to
enough members of the community to hear their concerns and input.

Aubrey stated that she has not heard anything about the project, and it would be happening right
near her.

Michael Ogle said that he has been in Orem since 1983 and moved from Silicon Valley to get
away from high density projects. Mr. Ogle expressed his concern with problems such as the
traffic in the area, and how he feels that a more concentrated population is not a favorable thing
for the City of Orem.

Alice Gold said that she moved to this area to get away from traffic. She feels that the City needs
to revisit housing parking regulations. She is very concerned about the amount of traffic in the
area and feels that a high-density housing complex would cause large safety problems.

Written public comments submitted were read into the record. Written comments that were
submitted are attached to the end of the minutes in their entirety.

Mayor Brunst encouraged anyone who was not able to speak to submit their written comments to
the council.


City Council Minutes – May 11, 2021 (p.6)      A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
CONSENT ITEMS

   •    APPROVAL OF MEETING MINUTES
           o Minutes of City Council Meeting – April 27, 2021
   •    RESOLUTION
           o Defederalization of the Economic Development Administration Revolving Loan
             Fund
   •    RESOLUTION
           o Water, Sewer, and Storm Water Master Plans
   •    CITY MANAGER’S APPOINTMENT
           o Planning Commission – Appointment of Shawna Mecham to replace Camille
             Jensen who has moved.

Mayor Brunst moved to approve the Consent Agenda as listed. Mrs. Lauret seconded the
motion. Those voting aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Terry Peterson, David
Spencer, and Brent Sumner. The motion passed.


SCHEDULES ITEMS

        PUBLIC HEARING / RESOLUTION – Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)
        Projected Use of Funds for Fiscal Year 2021-2022

Mr. Ransom stated the Orem CDBG Advisory Commission reviewed and heard funding proposals
from community organizations and others who wish to receive CDBG funding for Fiscal Year
2021-2022. The public hearing will be the second of two opportunities for the public comment on
the recommendations before the City Council officially adopts the Final Statement of Projected
Uses of Funds for Orem's 2019-2020 Community Development Block Grant. The first public
hearing was held on April 13, 2021. Following today's public hearing, the City Council will adopt
a resolution approving the CDBG Final Statement of Projected Uses of Funds for 2021-2022. The
recommendations are as follows: PERC $6,000, TURN Community Services $33,000, Kids on the
Move $10,000, Centro Hispano $55,000, Mountainland Community Health Center $2,481,City
of Orem CDBG Administration $134,960, City of Orem Section 108 Loan Repayment $91,000,
City of Orem Code Enforcement $125,000, City of Orem Critical Home Repair and Home
Rehabilitation $110,000, City of Orem Neighborhood Preservation $5,043, and City of Orem
Sharon Park New Playground $186,323.

Mayor Brunst opened the public hearing at ** pm. Hearing no public comments Mayor Brunst
closed the public hearing and brought the item back to the Council for further discussion.


Mayor Brunst moved to approve by Resolution the Community Development Block Grant
projected use if funds for fiscal year 2021-2022. Mr. Spencer seconded the motion. Those
voting aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Terry Peterson, David Spencer and
Brent Sumner. The motion passed.


   City Council Minutes – May 11, 2021 (p.7)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
          RESOLUTION– Adopting the City of Orem Fiscal Year 2021-2022 Tentative Budget

Mr. Nelson stated on May 11, 2021, the City Council received a copy of the Fiscal Year 2021-
2022 Tentative Budget. Prior to being presented with the Tentative Budget, the City Council and
staff have met in a series of public meetings to discuss elements of this budget, reviewed each of
the Enterprise Funds and the General Fund, and the recommended adjustments to the City's Fees
and Charges. This budget does not contain any request to increase the property tax rate. Various
proposed fee changes will be reviewed in the budget presentation. The Fiscal Year 2021-2022
Tentative Budget is available for review and to download at www.orem.org.

General discussion ensued regarding the budget and funding figures.

Mr. Spencer inquired about the Library Hall fees, and the classification of groups using the new
Library Hall for rehearsal. Mrs. Charlene Crozier responded by stating answering his question.

Mayor Brunst moved to approve by Resolution to adopt the Fiscal Year 2021-2022 tentative
budget and set a public hearing to adopt the final budget on June 15, 2021, at 6:00PM. Mrs.
Lauret seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Debby
Lauret, Terry Peterson, David Spencer and Brent Sumner. The motion passed.


COMMUNICATION ITEMS
There was no additional communication items

ADJOURNMENT TO A MEETING OF THE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY

Mr. Spencer moved to adjourn to a meeting of the Redevelopment Agency of the City of Orem.
Mr. Peterson seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Debby
Lauret, Terry Peterson, David Spencer and Brent Sumner. The motion passed.



The meeting adjourned at 7:48 p.m.



                                                       JoD’Ann Bates, City Recorder
Approved: May 25, 2021




City Council Minutes – May 11, 2021 (p.8)    A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
                                       PUBLIC COMMENTS – May 11, 2021



7.        PERSONAL APPEARANCES - Written Comments

Laurn Barrus - I would like to formally oppose the high-density development project proposed
for 1600 North. I have lived in the Northridge neighborhood for 8 years and have experienced
the traffic on 1600 North and its surrounding streets. The increase in traffic that will undoubtedly
arise from the project, as well as the construction of it, is undeniable. Traffic studies conducted at
the height of a pandemic are unreliable and inaccurate. While 1600 North runs the length of the
city from east to west, it in no way can accommodate an increase in traffic. As it stands now,
getting off the freeway during rush hour leaves you in a long line beginning at the western border
of the city. A two-lane road simply cannot sustain high-density housing. As a resident of 400
west, I see how minor traffic accidents on State Street impact the side roads. The traffic lights at
State Street and 1600 North and 400 West and 1600 North are too close together to absorb
additional traffic. This will add to the traffic and the unsafe speeds at which drivers already
travel on 400 West. In addition to traffic, I challenge the city council to examine their
commitment to making Orem a family-friendly community. Families come in all shapes and
sizes with various economic backgrounds. I recognize that single-family homes only meet a
specific niche and that being a family-friendly community requires involving all. As you balance
the variety of needs in the community, be intentional about the overall flow and design of the
city. Please use forethought to determine if meeting one need will create a larger problem later.

Emily Simmons - While I appreciate the concerns of my fellow neighbors regarding increased
traffic at 1600 N, I fully support this development. North Orem is a highly desirable place to live,
and we suffer from a lack of affordable housing options. When we moved here as a young,
growing family, we were able to afford a home in our neighborhood. As home prices increase in
our area, we will not be able to attract the young, vibrant, growing families who we need to fill
our schools and our churches and our community. We need affordable housing options in North
Orem and this development, right on the edge of State Street, turns yet another used car lot into
the kind of growth opportunity we desperately need.

Robert Hawkins - We oppose the development of a high-density housing area at 1600 North
and 400 West. The traffic issue with this project transcends sheer traffic counts in the area. Those
counts, by the way appear to not be representative of post COVID traffic. The true problem is
awkward access. 1 The primary entrance is only accessible to westbound traffic on 1600 North.
2. The secondary entrance is only accessible to northbound traffic on State Street Any traffic
coming from North State Street will probably turn left on 2000 North and circle around to 1600
N via 400 West or take the cutoff via Ribbon Wood Road to 1830 North or direct from State
Street via 1830 North. All of these converge on 400 West. This will noticeably increase traffic in
an otherwise quiet residential area with new homes and lots of young children. The other new
choke point will be those coming off the freeway via 1600 North. They will either overload the
left turn lane at State Street to access the alternate entrance or must find a way to get turned
around on 1600 North beyond 400 West, circling through neighborhoods or the Quick Quack
parking lot. This area is already a traffic nightmare during peak periods. Finally, there is the
parking issue. 1.7 cars per unit will be insufficient and residents will find other places to park
either in commercial parking lots or on 400 West or 1600 North. In addition, that 1.7 per unit

     City Council Minutes – May 11, 2021 (p.9)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
does not account for parking at the shops that are part of the complex. Thank you!

Christina Stommel - I am asking this city council to reconsider the development of the area on
1600 N and N State. This area cannot handle the stress of a 6-story building and the residential
traffic it will bring to this intersection and surrounding neighborhoods. Our families and
neighbors drive in this area every day, and our children walk to nearby schools on these streets.
The increased traffic flow will endanger the lives and the livelihoods of all the residents in this
area. Please do not let this effort move forward.

Emily Peterson - While we appreciate the developers for the High-Density Housing
Development on 1600 North's willingness to help with the current housing crisis, the amount
which the city would suffer makes it irresponsible to allow it. Traffic from I-15 to State St. is
already backed up most of the day, especially during high traffic times (school drop off and
release times and rush hours). Orem city will end up spending millions buying real estate
(including land from this very development) and expanding 1600 N to accommodate the addition
of at LEAST 200 cars (more likely 250-300). Please find another plot on which to build the
development with better infrastructure in place. OR add further development of 1600 N to the
scope of the developers' project so the cost (both financial and daily traffic issues) does not get
put on the taxpayers.

Scott Golightly - Regarding the North Village District and the proposed development at 1600 N
and 400 W, while I agree that affordable housing is an issue having a large complex with a very
small number of units that are designated for affordable housing does not seem to do much to
address the issue. Beyond that having read the traffic study I am surprised that the city staff
would consider a study done during COVID lockdown and fall break that would not include
most commuter traffic or ANY school traffic. Please review and require at least a new traffic
study and before you go forward with the project. A smaller number of 100% affordable housing
units may meet the needs of Orem better than what is proposed.

Jim Condie - Comments for 5/11 City Council Meeting. First, I want to thank all those who are
passionate about the proposed development at 1600 North in Orem on both sides of the issue,
these discussions provide an opportunity for us to come together as a community. I also wish to
state that I am not against development or other property owner’s rights. I am against the city
allowing a large development, at an already dangerous intersection, with inadequate plans for
traffic, parking, and public safety. There seems to be an insatiable lust for development that is
driving this process and allowing common sense to go out the window. We really need to pump
the brakes on this issue and verify the in-adequate traffic study that was submitted by the
developer. • I do not want the front of my house to turn into overflow parking for an ill-planned
development. • I do not want to see more accidents and potential fatalities at this intersection
without the city accepting responsibility for the new public safety problems that they are
allowing. • The future of this development is a couple hundred apartments within a block of the
State liquor store and next to my neighborhood. We already have problems with the sober living
house that was illegally planted in our neighborhood. The accumulation of liquor bottles in the
car lot and gutter next to the sober living home will get exponentially worse with this
development. • We need height and density restrictions in this area because of the traffic,
parking, and public safety issues that it will certainly cause. Let us keep Orem as a nice place to
live and not cause a huge new problem with this ill-conceived development. Thank You! Jim
Condie.

City Council Minutes – May 11, 2021 (p.10)     A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
Jill Barrick - Regarding 1600 N 400 W development: -- There is a bus stop located at the left
entrance to the property on 1600 N. When a bus is stopped there, it will cover the entire entrance,
and no one will be able to enter or exit the property. -- There was a No U-Turn sign installed on
the cement median of the 400 W intersection (prohibiting traffic going east from turning west). It
has been hit and knocked down several times. Is this No U-Turn designation still in effect? --
Several years ago, the entire intersection at 400 W & 1600 N was redone. Where is the traffic
study that justified the changes and expense? It was quite significant, a home was removed, a
front yard was shortened, a through-street was added to connect to Ace Hardware, a retention
basin was added, a cement median for merging was removed. Please provide the traffic impact
study. -- Leasing contracts on the commercial space on floor one will not include "sharable
spaces". Businesses will not share client or employee stalls. This is not even a talkable point. --
The units are now being listed as luxury units, with 1 and 2 bedrooms. Removing 3-bedroom
units will add more cars to an already insufficient amount. Since there are no low-income units
offered anymore, we can stop the false narrative of providing "affordable housing". -- What if the
developer sells the storage unit property? Will the easement//encroachment or agreement for
additional spaces be held intact? There will be moving vans routinely parked in "shared spaces"
and along driveways, so this is not really viable. -- This is not a "smaller scale" development. If
built it will be one of the tallest, highest-density buildings in all of Orem per lot size. This does
not fit the NVD designation definition at all. -- In the work meeting earlier today, it was
mentioned that flexibility is given to neighbors for height. Define what height flexibility is given
to neighbors. -- There is insufficient parking at existing high-density properties. Overflow onto
the street happens for many reasons: reserved stalls, guests, too many people per unit, etc. This
development already has too few stalls, so relying on "shared spaces" is lunacy. It will be every
car for itself. -- CALL THE SPECIAL SESSION TO STALL THIS PROJECT!! This must be
reviewed with public input. Please get this right.

John Barrick - Dear Orem City Council, I am writing as a concerned Orem citizen about the
Phase 1 development in the North Village District (NVD). I appreciate that David Spencer,
Debby Lauret, and Jeff Lambson made yesterday to listen to our concerns. I agree with the
motion that David Spencer made to immediately revisit the NVD parking density and height
zoning requirements by special session. The section of 1600 North, east of State Street, is
different from every other major artery in Orem connecting to the I-15 corridor. This section of
the street is one lane each way within one block of State Street. The Phase 1 development is
located along this section of the NVD. The current traffic study is inadequate. I want to thank the
City Council and Staff for requiring additional requirements for the traffic study. Any traffic
study that does not include school traffic would be inadequate. Additionally, the COVID
adjustment of the current study used appears to be inadequate. Can we see some examples of
what other traffic studies have used for COVID adjustments? The developer presented an initial
traffic study performed in October during the Neighborhood meeting held in November. The
developer promised to make that study available, but that promise has not been kept. How might
we obtain a copy of the “original” traffic study? The height of Phase 1 is a major problem. Phase
1 will be among the tallest buildings in Orem in a zone requiring small scale development. I
believe the Orem City staff did Orem City residents a disservice by not properly advising the
City Council on the height issues just passed. Jason Bench during today’s work meeting stated
that the height rule was designed to provide flexibility for developers. I believe they intentionally
misled the Orem City council on recent height changes to the NVD height ordinances. The Orem
City staff said that they had received the Phase 1 application on April 13, 2021 right before the
   City Council Minutes – May 11, 2021 (p.11)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
City Council meeting was held. Why was Orem City unable to produce the actual application at
8am on the morning of April 14, 2021? I believe there were components of the building permit
application that were submitted on that date and the fees were paid, but that is not a complete
application. It depends on the definition of what an “application” is. This inconsistency will be
resolved through a GRAMA request. However, the real question is why would the Orem City
staff mislead the City Council about the status of an application? Why do the residents of Orem
need to apply for GRAMA requests to receive transparency regarding the Phase 1 project in the
NVD? Quick Quack car wash in the NVD is already a problem. The height and location of the
building relative to the sidewalk created an icy sidewalk all winter long, and for two days this
spring an entire lane of traffic was blocked for patrons of the car wash. Clearly not everything
was thought through before the building application was granted. It appears we are getting
another mistake with the Phase 1 project in the NVD. Terry Petersen, Brent Sumner, and David
Spencer are for parking requirement, zoning, and height review. As neighborhood residents, we
strongly agree and would like all applications halted within the NVD until the zoning issues are
resolved. Thank you for voting to protect Orem residents rather than unscrupulous developers,
John Barrick.

Shauna Edwards - As a resident of this area for the past 28 and a half years, I have serious
concerns about this high-density housing proposal. From our home, we go out to 1600 daily to
get to work, grocery stores, shopping, the highway, etc. This housing project would add
increased traffic to an already existing high traffic area at the intersection of 1600 N and State
street. Likewise, 400 West has become increasingly busy as well. Residents of the proposed
high-density housing would use 400 West as an alternate route and add to an already existing
traffic problem on this road as well. We have safety concerns for the children trying to get to
school in the mornings and return home in the afternoons also. We do not want to increase traffic
flow in these areas. Any traffic studies that are relevant need to be conducted during regular days
and times NOT on alpine school district breaks and NOT during covid times when schools are
not in regular sessions.

Melanie Lafranca - I am concerned about the proposed apartment buildings near 1600 N and
State Street. If apartments are approved for this area, it should be mandatory that they enter and
exit from State Street. Any other option means traffic from tenants and visitors up and down our
residential streets which is unacceptable for this quiet area of Orem. We lived in Lehi from 2000-
2016 and saw what happens when a lot of people move into a small area without any planning in
place for traffic, water, or school systems. We should not have to wait until this is a big problem
to discuss this. We should be able to plan now for traffic and other issues this apartment complex
would bring to our area. I hope that these issues will be considered, and that the builder will only
be given the option to enter and exit traffic from State Street. Thank you.

Steve Lafranca - This comment is regarding the construction of the High-Density development
on 1600 N. After listening to the engineer for the project describe how parking and traffic are to
be handled for this complex, it was very apparent consideration for the safety of the current
residents that live on 400 e and the surrounding area has been ignored. If this complex is allowed
to have access via 1600N or 400E, the already congested and dangerous intersection there will be
a complete disaster. It was very apparent the contractor did little in the way of due diligence and
is relying on a traffic survey that was done when school was not in session and COVID
restrictions were in effect. The intersection on 400 E and 1600N is already a hazard and those
that live here and use that intersection can and will attest that it is already a dangerous place. I
City Council Minutes – May 11, 2021 (p.12)    A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
have witnessed multiple accidents at that intersection, including my mother-in-law whose car
was broadsided by a teenager that misread traffic. Please reconsider this project or at the very
least restrict access to and from state street.

Alice Gold - We are very concerned about the traffic increasing in our North Orem
neighborhood. I personally called a city engineer about two years ago about the amounts of
accidents we were seeing on the corner of 1885 North and 400 West. He told me if we put a 4-
way stop or a traffic light at that corner, we would have casualties instead of just minor
accidents. With two of those four accidents being teenage kids from our neighborhood, I was still
concerned that nothing was being done to keep our drivers and kids safe on that road. Now, fast
forward to the high-density housing being proposed on the corner of 1600 N and 400 W. This is
within a half mile where we have had children hit by cars and even killed in crosswalks coming
to and from their school. I feel like the Mayor has turned his head to the traffic concerns of our
area because they do not personally affect him. We have had a lot of support from city council
members, but when I call the city planning office and a city planner tells me that he and the rest
of his office would "rather have a few children casualties than have a whole generation without
affordable housing," I can't help but think some of our city leaders and definitely our city
employees have a gross priority problem. We have the MOST high-density housing in all of
Utah County already. If you start ignoring citizens' safety and even their idea of living the
American Dream because you want the city to keep growing, then more than just North Orem
has the right to be concerned. Yes, citizens voted for allowing the city to grow the State Street
area, but I say we take it to vote again to see if the citizens agree with the way the city is putting
development in place.

W Michael Black - I oppose the rezoning request that Bill Fairbanks is making to change from
an R8 to R7.5 and change the density from LDR to MDR for the property at 770 W 650 S. The
rezone would encroach on the integrity of the neighborhood by beginning to turn the street into a
rental venue for UVU. There is already a problem with nonresidents (students) parking on the
street without passes contrary to the street parking regulations. There are several neighbors on
the street who are elderly and the prospect of young college students who by experience from a
home rented last year across the street from this property is unwelcome. The developer can make
sufficient money from his purchase of one parcel divided three ways without destroying the
safety and peace of the entire street.




   City Council Minutes – May 11, 2021 (p.13)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
