                                                   CITY OF OREM
                                              CITY COUNCIL MEETING
                                            56 North State Street Orem, Utah
                                                     April 13, 2021

                                             This meeting was held electronically
                                      to allow Councilmembers and Staff to participate.



3:00 P.M. WORK SESSION – CITY COUNCIL CONFERENCE ROOM

CONDUCTING                                       Mayor Richard F. Brunst

ELECTED OFFICIALS                                Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Tom Macdonald, Terry
                                                 Peterson, David Spencer, and Brent Sumner.

APPOINTED STAFF                                  Jamie Davidson, City Manager; Brenn Bybee, Assistant City
                                                 Manager; Steven Downs, Deputy City Manager; Heather
                                                 Schriever, City Attorney; Marc Sanderson, Fire Chief;
                                                 Joshua Adams, Police Chief; Ryan Clark, Development
                                                 Services Director; Charlene Crozier, Library Director; Chris
                                                 Tschirki, Public Works Department Manager; Brandon
                                                 Nelson, Finance Department Manager; Jason Bench,
                                                 Planning Division Manager; and JoD’Ann Bates, City
                                                 Recorder


       NOTE: The referenced report and presentation documents for each discussion
         may be viewed at orem.org/meetings under “City Council Presentations”


     UPDATE – Park Master Plan & Hillcrest Park Public Input

Mr. Bybee stated they would like to start with Ms. Gibb of Y2 Analytics, she will share the results
of the Parks Master Plan survey update and any major changes that have occurred due to recent
feedback. They will then turn the time over to Ms. Benson of Landmark Design to review a
summary of all the public comments that have been received regarding the Hillcrest Park concept
designs.

Ms. Gibb of Y2 Analytics reviewed the following information:
   • Survey Methodology
          o Finding to remember
          o Sample geographic distribution
          o Orem quality of life
   • City Direction, Priorities
          o CARE Tax options
          o Options by age
   • Orem City Park

   City Council Minutes – April 13, 2021 (p.1)        A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
                                              DRAFT
              o Park use frequency
              o Park uses by age
              o Adequate parks, trail, and rec availability
              o Individual park usage
              o Park choice reasoning
              o Reasons for not using parks
              o Park improvements
              o Alternative parks
              o Parks that Orem should emulate
              o Walking distance of parks
     •    Orem Fitness Center & Recreation:
              o Recreational improvements
              o Household recreational activities
              o Fitness Center pass ownership (former)
              o Usage frequency(former)
              o Non-participation reasons
              o Alternative fitness centers
              o Planned future fitness center usage
     •    City Trail Use
              o Overall usage
              o Reasons for trail use
              o Why respondents don’t use trails
              o Trail type preference
              o New trail preference
              o Trail improvements
              o Total funding allocation
              o New activity preference
     •    Demographics
              o Respondent demographics

General discussion ensued regarding funding through Mountainland of Governments (MAG) for
trails and the cities Master Plan that includes trails discussed.

Time was turned over to Ms. Benson of Landmark Designs to discuss Hillcrest Park giving a
summary of public input on the preliminary concepts which include:
   • Number of comments received
   • Percentage of preferred concept
   • Pros and Cons of Concept A – partial school
   • Pros and Cons of Concept B – no School
   • General concerns
   • General ideas/comments
   • Requested features
   • Unique ideas from online meetings
   • Input via comment form on website

General discussion ensued regarding the information that was shared with the Council, what they
see is important to the residents and ideas as to what could work in this area in order to build and

City Council Minutes – April 13, 2021 (p.2)     A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
make plans for the future. Further discussion continued as to the features that were most wanted
in the Hillcrest Park.


     DISCUSSION – FY 2022 Budget – Operations, Fleet and IT

Mr. Nelson stated they will cover various elements of the budget regarding expenses, revenue and
fees and then more specific information regarding operations, fleet and IT departments.
    • FY2022 Fees & Charges:
           o Water Fund fees
           o Water Reclamation Fund fees
           o Storm Water Fund fees
           o Impact fees
           o Cemetery fees
           o Solid Waste fees
           o Street Lighting ees
    • FY2022 Operational Expansions:
           o Expansion request process
           o General Fund expansions, total of $602,745.
           o Other Funds expansions, total of $221,387.
           o Proposed Expansion funded in FY 2021, total of $73,880
    • FY2022 Information Technology (IT) presented by Mr. Lazalde:
           o FY 2020-2021 Highlights
           o IT Major projects already funded – based on 5-year plan
    • FY2022 Fleet replacement presented by Mr. Price:
           o Summary of Fleet funds
           o 2022 Fleet replacement
           o Fleet replacement over the years
           o General Fund
                   ▪ Fire Department - $237,000.
                   ▪ Development Services - $26,500.
                   ▪ Police - $486,500.
                   ▪ Parks - $53,000.
           o Internal Service Fund
                   ▪ Warehouse - $$30,000
           o Enterprise Funds
                   ▪ Storm Water - $237,000.
                   ▪ Water Reclamation - $129,000.
                   ▪ Water - $268,000.
                   ▪ Streets - $247,000.
Overall Summary - $1,750,000.

Mayor Brunst thanked staff for their work and detail on the upcoming budget.


     DISCUSSION – University Parkway Market Study Overview


   City Council Minutes – April 13, 2021 (p.3)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
                                              DRAFT
Mr. Prosser with Economic & Planning Systems stated they are the consultants that were hired to
help perform a market analysis for the University Parkway Cooridor. He continued to discuss an
overview of University Parkway which included the following information:
    • Project Overview
           o About the staff
           o Project tasks
           o Populations & households 2020-2021
           o Student housing – Utah Valley University
           o Orem tenure by housing type
           o Utah County job growth by industry
           o Utah County household forecast
           o Utah County employment forecast
           o Residential building Permits
           o Multifamily development
           o Office development
           o Retail development
           o Orem Sales Tax
           o University Parkway opportunity parcels
           o Impact on University Parkway
           o Next steps

Further discussion ensued regarding trends shifting in the way of office space demand,
hospitality opportunities, reconfiguring current sites for different uses, the possible need for
wedding and event services and how significant changes will affect the quality of life for the
residents of Orem.


       Agenda Review & Preview of Upcoming Agenda Items

The City Council reviewed the evening’s agenda. Discussion ensued regarding the scheduled items
that would be considered.


       City Council Reports & City Manager Information Items

Mr. Macdonald reviewed the committee’s in which he represents:
   • Orem Community Outreach is starting up again after this last year of Covid.
   • Heritage Committee is still moving along.
   • Youth Committee have not been active, but he feels they will start up again soon.

Mr. Davidson reviewed some informational items for the Council which included the following:
   • There is ongoing water tank discussions and they are proceeding with the location of the
      Farley property.
   • Recreation Director recruitment is still ongoing.


City Council Minutes – April 13, 2021 (p.4)    A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
   •    There is the latest round of CARES funds in which the city will be receiving funds and
        getting specifics as to how those funds can be spent.
   •    Congress has moved back in the direction of “ear marks” and funds have been allocated
        for several projects. Orem City has submitted requests for funds to help with the West
        Union Canal improvements.
   •    Update as to the fuel tank concerns and the current process was discussed.
   •    The City has been working with the Hale Center Theater Orem over the past couple of
        years in the construction of a new theater at University Place. Representatives from both
        Orem City and Hale Center Theater met with the Utah County Tourism Tax Advisory
        Board and requested funding of $3 million dollars to help in the construction. The
        Advisory Board was willing to make a recommendation to the County Council for funding
        of $1.5 million towards the construction.


6:00 P.M. REGULAR SESSION – COUNCIL CHAMBERS


CONDUCTING                                       Mayor Richard F. Brunst

ELECTED OFFICIALS                                Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Tom Macdonald, Terry
                                                 Peterson, David Spencer, and Brent Sumner

APPOINTED STAFF                                  Jamie Davidson, City Manager; Brenn Bybee, Assistant City
                                                 Manager; Steven Downs, Deputy City Manager; Heather
                                                 Schriever, City Attorney; Marc Sanderson, Fire Chief;
                                                 Joshua Adams, Police Chief; Ryan Clark, Development
                                                 Services Director; Charlene Crozier, Library Director; Chris
                                                 Tschirki, Public Works Department Manager; Brandon
                                                 Nelson, Finance Department Manager; Karl Hirst,
                                                 Recreation Department Manager; Jason Bench, Planning
                                                 Division Manager; Steve Earl, Deputy City Attorney; and
                                                 JoD’Ann Bates, City Recorder.

CALL TO ORDER

Mayor Brunst read the following to begin the meeting:
“Pursuant to Mayor Richard F. Brunst's Proclamation dated March 26, 2021, the Orem City
Council meeting on April 13, 2021 will be an all-electronic meeting. There will be no anchor
location for the meeting. The City cannot ensure the recommended minimum of six feet of social
distancing for meeting participants at the usual anchor location in the Orem City Council
Chambers. Therefore, holding the meeting at the City Council Chambers would present a
substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the meeting and may
contribute to the spread of COVID-19. There will be no public access to the Orem City Council
chambers. Those desiring to view or participate in the meeting must do so electronically.

To view the meeting: please go to orem.org/meetings.
To make a comment: Please submit your comment through: orem.org/comments

   City Council Minutes – April 13, 2021 (p.5)       A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
                                              DRAFT
Written comments will be accepted before and during the meeting. All written comments received
will be entered into the record and forwarded to each City Council member for review. Written
comments will also be read aloud during the live meeting when required by law or when time
permits. As technology permits, the City Council may also accept oral comments. Once an item
has been voted on, that item will be closed to additional comments. Thank you for your cooperation
during these challenging times.”

INVOCATION /
INSPIRATIONAL THOUGHT                         Terry Peterson
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE                          Sherry Peterson


MAYOR’S REPORT/ITEMS REFERRED BY COUNCIL

No items to report

PERSONAL APPEARANCES

Time was allotted for the public to express their ideas, concerns, and comments on items not
scheduled as public hearings on the agenda. Those wishing to make a comment provided staff with
written comments.

Public comments were made by the following:
   o John Spencer Livingston
   o James Anderson
   o Scott Rees
   o Josh Martin
   o Carl Black
   o Dustin Dastrup
   o Bryan Deucher
   o Ryan Smith
   o Nate Quigley

Written public comments submitted were read into the record. Written comments that were
submitted are attached to the end of the minutes in their entirety.


CONSENT ITEMS

     •    APPROVAL OF MEETING MINUTES
            o Minutes of City Council Meeting – March 23, 2021

Mayor Brunst moved to approve the Consent Agenda as listed. Mrs. Lauret seconded the
motion. Those voting aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Tom Macdonald, Terry
Peterson, David Spencer, and Brent Sumner. The motion passed.


SCHEDULES ITEMS
City Council Minutes – April 13, 2021 (p.6)          A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
     PUBLIC HEARING - The City will receive public comment on the Community
     Development Block Grant (CDBG) Projected Use of Funds for Fiscal Year 2021-2022.

Ms. Mathews states the Orem CDBG Advisory Commission reviewed and heard funding
proposals from community organizations and others who wish to receive CDBG funding for Fiscal
Year 2021-2022. The Commission will present its recommendations to the City Council then the
public hearing will be opened for comment on the proposed uses of funds. The public hearing will
be the first of two opportunities for the public comment on the recommendations before the City
Council officially adopts the Final Statement of Projected Uses of Funds for Orem's 2021-2022
Community Development Block Grant. Following the second public hearing to be held May 11,
2021, the City Council will adopt a resolution approving the CDBG Final Statement of Projected
Uses of Funds for 2021-2022. The recommendations are as follows: PERC $6,000, TURN
Community Services $33,000, Kids on the Move $10,000, Centro Hispano $55,000,
Mountainland Community Health Center $2,481,City of Orem CDBG Administration $134,960,
City of Orem Section 108 Loan Repayment $91,000, City of Orem Code Enforcement $125,000,
City of Orem Critical Home Repair and Home Rehabilitation $110,000, City of Orem
Neighborhood Preservation $5,043, and
City of Orem Sharon Park New Playground $186,323.

Mayor Brunst opened the public hearing at 6:17 p.m.

Public comments were made by the following:
   o Margaret Yeates

Written public comments submitted were read into the record. Written comments that were
submitted are attached to the end of the minutes in their entirety

Hearing no further comments Mayor Brunst closed the public hearing at 6:19 p.m. and brought
the item back to the Council for further discussion.



        PUBLIC HEARING / RESOLUTION - The City will receive Public Comment on the
        Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Projected Use of Funds for CARES
        ACT CDBG-CV funding and consider approval of a resolution for a substantial
        amendment to the 2019-2020 Annual Action Plan.

Mr. Ransom stated In response to the Coronavirus Pandemic (COVID-19), the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development Community Development Block Grant provided the City of
Orem with a second CDBG allocation of $287,940 to be used to prevent, prepare for, and
respond to COVID-19. Based on the recommendations from the CDBG Advisory Commission,
the City of Orem would like to allocate funds from the previously allocated $258,049.16 in
CDBG-CV funding for public service projects to the following projects: $15,000 to the House of
Hope for central air conditioning units for three residential units to help prevent COVID-19 and
$25,000 to Community Action Services and Food Bank for approximately 130 metal food
storage cages help them store the increased amount of the food they have been receiving to help
mitigate the impacts of COVID-19.


   City Council Minutes – April 13, 2021 (p.7)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
                                              DRAFT
Mayor Brunst opened the public hearing at 6:23 p.m.

Public comments were made by the following:
   o Karen McCandless

Written public comments submitted were read into the record. Written comments that were
submitted are attached to the end of the minutes in their entirety.

Hearing no further comments, Mayor Brunst closed the public hearing at 6:25 p.m. and brought
the item back to the Council for further discussion.

Mayor Brunst moved, to approve by Resolution the Community Development Block Grant
(CDBG) Projected Use of Funds for CARES ACT CDBG-CV funding and consider approval of
a resolution for a substantial amendment to the 2019-2020 Annual Action Plan. Mr. Spencer
seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Tom
Macdonald, Terry Peterson, David Spencer and Brent Sumner. The motion passed.


          PUBLIC HEARING / ORDINANCE – Amending Article 22-5-3(A) and the zoning map
          of the City of Orem by changing the zone of approximately 4.00 acres from the NVD-
          Res-B zone to the R8 zone located generally at 1637 North to 1753 North along 400
          West.

Mr. Bench stated the residents of the homes along the west side of 400 West from 1657 North to
1753 North have requested that the City rezone their properties from the NVD-Res-B zone to the
R8 zone. This would be a reversal of the zoning that took place approximately three years ago.
Each property owner except one has provided a signed letter requesting the rezone. The one who
did not provide a letter is the southernmost property included in this rezone request. It is owned
by the same owner of the commercial properties to the south and west.
Staff held a zoom neighborhood meeting on February 9, 2021. There were about 30 residents in
attendance. The neighborhood was in favor of the proposed rezone.

Mayor Brunst opened the public hearing at 6:37 p.m.

Public comments were made by the following:
   o Katrina Bleyl
   o Kathryn Christensen
   o Joshua Lowe
   o Stephanie Visnaw

Written public comments submitted were read into the record. Written comments that were
submitted are attached to the end of the minutes in their entirety.

Hearing no further comments Mayor Brunt closed the public hearing at 6:40 p.m. and brought the
item back to the Council for further discussion.

General discussion ensued regarding the request, what exactly is being proposed and the status of
any application that may already be in progress.

City Council Minutes – April 13, 2021 (p.8)    A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
Mayor Brunst moved, to continue the approval Amending Article 22-5-3(A) and the zoning
map of the City of Orem by changing the zone of approximately 4.00 acres from the NVD-Res-B
zone to the R8 zone located generally at 1637 North to 1753 North along 400 West to the April
27, 2021 regularly scheduled City Council meeting. Mr. Peterson seconded the motion. Those
voting aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Tom Macdonald, Terry Peterson,
David Spencer and Brent Sumner. The motion passed.


        PUBLIC HEARING / ORDINANCE - Amending Appendix A of the Orem City Code by
        enacting Standard Land Use Code 0303 Shave Ice Shack; and amending Article 22-5-
        3(A) and the zoning map of the City of Orem by changing the zone of approximately
        0.84 acres from the R12 zone to the C1 zone at approximately 1323 East 800 North.

Mr. Bench stated residents of the homes along the west side of 400 West from 1657 North to 1753
North have requested that the City rezone their properties from the NVD-Res-B zone to the R8
zone. This would be a reversal of the zoning that took place approximately three years ago.
Each property owner except one has provided a signed letter requesting the rezone. The one who
did not provide a letter is the southernmost property included in this rezone request. It is owned
by the same owner of the commercial properties to the south and west.
Staff held a zoom neighborhood meeting on February 9, 2021. There were about 30 residents in
attendance. The neighborhood was in favor of the proposed rezone.
Mayor Brunst opened the public hearing at 7:12 p.m. Hearing no comments, he closed the public
hearing and brought the item back to the Council for further discussion.

Mayor Brunst moved, to approve by Ordinance, Amending Appendix A of the Orem City Code
by enacting Standard Land Use Code 0303 Shave Ice Shack; and amending Article 22-5-3(A)
and the zoning map of the City of Orem by changing the zone of approximately 0.84 acres from
the R12 zone to the C1 zone at approximately 1323 East 800 North. Mr. Lambson seconded
the motion. Those voting aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Tom Macdonald,
Terry Peterson, David Spencer and Brent Sumner. The motion passed.


        ORDINANCE – Amending Section(s) 22-11-35(L)(2)(e), of the Orem City Code
        pertaining to roofing materials on buildings in the PD22 zone.

Mr. Bench stated The PD22 zone provides that “Flat, three tab cut asphalt and rolled roofing
shall not be permitted on any roof that has a slope of 3/12 or greater.”
The applicant is developing a moderate income housing project in the PD22 zone and believes
that tile shingles are too expensive for the project. He would like to amend the ordinance to
allow asphalt shingles in certain situations.
The language of Section 22-11-35(L)(2)(e), as proposed by the applicant, would read as follows:
Architectural Style. The architectural style and design of all buildings and structures (including
parking structures and pad sites) in the PD-22 zone shall be consistent with the architectural style
shown in Appendix Q
Roof shapes shall be consistent with the overall architectural style of the development as
outlined in Appendix Q Appropriate use of both flat and pitched roofs is encouraged. Flat, three
tab cut asphalt and rolled roofing shall not be permitted on any roof that has a slope of 3/12 or


   City Council Minutes – April 13, 2021 (p.9)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
                                               DRAFT
greater. Notwithstanding the above, three tab architectural-style asphalt shingles may be used on
a building with a minimum of four stories and a roof slope no greater than 4/12.

Mayor Brunst opened the public hearing at 7:18 p.m. Hearing no comments, he closed the public
hearing and brought the item back to the Council for further discussion.

Mayor Brunst moved, to approve by Ordinance, Amending Section(s) 22-11-35(L)(2)(e), of the
Orem City Code pertaining to roofing materials on buildings in the PD22 zone. Mr.
Macdonald seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Richard F. Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Debby
Lauret, Tom Macdonald, Terry Peterson, David Spencer and Brent Sumner. The motion passed.


COMMUNICATION ITEMS
There were no additional communication items


CITY MANAGER INFORMATION ITEMS
The City Manager had no additional Information Items.


ADJOURNMENT
Mayor Brunst moved to adjourn. Mrs. Lauret seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Richard
F. Brunst, Jeff Lambson, Debby Lauret, Tom Macdonald, Terry Peterson, David Spencer, and
Brent Sumner. The motion passed.


The meeting adjourned at 7:22 p.m.




                                                        JoD’Ann Bates, City Recorder
Approved: April 27, 2021




City Council Minutes – April 13, 2021 (p.10)    A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
                            PUBLIC COMMENTS – April 13, 2021


7.        PERSONAL APPEARANCES

John Spencer Livingston
Hello, I would like to reach out on the topic of naming an Orem City Baseball field after one of
the best father coaches I have ever met, Clayton Riggs. I had the opportunity to coach multiple
years of multiple sports with Clayton, but my most memorable were the years I spent coaching
with him and against him in the Orem Youth Baseball Program on the city center fields. I can
unequivocally state that Clayton embodied the highest standard of Parent coaching imaginable. I
saw first hand the hours and hours he invested coaching little league baseball on those Orem ball
fields. His patience was endless, I never heard him use a cross word with any of his players. He
had an ability to bring out the best in every team he coached. Clayton's sudden passing was a
huge loss to the Orem Baseball program. Naming a field in his honor would be a constant
reminder to the rest of us of his legacy and example. I strongly encourage the board to consider
this action.

James Anderson
I would like to vote for naming one of the fields at the Orem baseball complex after Clayton
Riggs. He was a coach to so many young baseball players and impacted so many lives. Yes
thank you.

Scott Rees
I vote to change the name of field #3 to the “Clayton Rigg’s Field.” Thank you

Josh Martin
I support the naming of a baseball field the Clayton Riggs field. Clayton was an amazing sports
dad and spent lots of time at Orem coaching his boys and others. Knowing Claytons love for life,
kids and sports makes it easy for me to support his name being on the field. Thank you for the
consideration.

Carl Black
Dear council members, I strongly support naming one of our baseball fields after Clayton Riggs.
He was a true champion of Orem youth baseball. He has mentored many kids over the years and
promoted excellence and strong work ethic. Please feel free to contact me personally if you need
additional input.


Dustin Dastrup
City Council, I wanted to send you a quick note about the idea of naming one of the Orem City
fields in memory of Clayton Riggs. When Clayton moved to Orem about 11 or 12 years ago,
Clayton and I instantly connected, he moved in 2 houses down from me and we have boys the
same age. At the time, our boys were 4 and 5 years old... the day he moved in, we pulled out the
balls, bats and gloves and started to coach the neighborhood boys. Clayton never stopped... he
put in thousands of hours and did it in a way that included and uplifted every single boy he came
in contact with... literally hundreds of Orem boys... he was every parents dream for a little league

     City Council Minutes – April 13, 2021 (p.11)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
                                               DRAFT
coach... he was inclusive, instructive, always organized, was incredibly dedicated and held
practice more than anyone else did... he was competitive, his teams won and still included all of
his players... he is exactly what every little league parent coach should strive to be. Naming a
field after him would be an honor to him, to our city, to his family, and to the Orem youth
baseball program... Every once in a while, a coach comes along that is just different... that has an
impact on his players more than any other coach... That becomes a lifelong trusted friend to his
players... unfortunately sometimes they aren’t honored or thanked enough while they are with
us... These coaches don’t do it for the recognition or to be thanked. They understand that it’s not
about them, it’s all about the boys/players, their experience and their little league memories...
CLAYTON was this coach... Clayton is a one in a million coach and friend... I hope the city is
able to agree to name a field in his honor, it would be such an incredible thing to do, so fitting for
a coach and man that impacted so much.

Bryan Deucher
I love idea of naming one of the baseball fields at the city center park after my good friend
Clayton Riggs. He coached, encouraged, loved, and taught life lessons to many boys over the
years.

Ryan Smith
The thought of naming fields in Orem after Clayton would only preserve a well deserving
legacy. I have never met a coach and mentor fo the youth who could manage being competitive
and sportsmanship as well as Clayton. He is the model we want every parent and Coach to
follow. He cared. He wanted to win. He wanted excellence. He wanted what was right. He
wanted to teach life lessons. He never lost track of that. He is well deserving of these fields’
names

Nate Quigley
I am writing in support of the proposal being considered to name the Field 3 baseball field at
City Center Fields in honor of Clayton Riggs. Clayton’s tireless, positive and cheerful efforts as
coach to our son were so important to his development as a baseball player and young man.
Clayton also encouraged me to volunteer as both a head coach and assistant coach - something I
probably wouldn’t have done without his enthusiastic prodding. Seeing him honored in this way
would be the perfect way to encourage everyone in Orem to be as warm and welcoming and
giving as he was. I would be very happy to contribute to whatever related funds are needed to
make this possible. Thank you for considering this comment


9.1   PUBLIC HEARING - The City will receive public comment on the Community
Development Block Grant (CDBG) Projected Use of Funds for Fiscal Year 2021-2022.

Margaret Yeates
Thank you kindly for all the support of House of Hope. House of Hope is so very grateful for the
CDBG program. The generous funding received throughout the years has been a huge support
and made furthering our mission a reality.




City Council Minutes – April 13, 2021 (p.12)    A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
9.2   PUBLIC HEARING / RESOLUTION - The City will receive Public Comment on
the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Projected Use of Funds for CARES
ACT CDBG-CV funding and consider approval of a resolution for a substantial
amendment to the 2019-2020 Annual Action Plan.

Karen McCandless
This is for the April 13th City Council meeting regarding the allocation of CDBG-CV funding. I
am the executive director of Community Action Services and Food Bank and would like to
express my appreciation for your consideration of our request for additional metal food storage
baskets. These baskets will help us continue to meet community food needs and to prepare in the
event a Covid variant or some other emergency arises. Again, thank you for your consideration
and service.


9.3   PUBLIC HEARING / ORDINANCE – Amending Article 22-5-3(A) and the zoning
map of the City of Orem by changing the zone of approximately 4.00 acres from the NVD-
Res-B zone to the R8 zone located generally at 1637 North to 1753 North along 400 West.

Katrina Bleyl
I would ask that the City Council table the R-8 vote and open an application to review the
District zoning in the 1600 North District. It is different than every other area in the city and
needs to be looked at again to make sure that the building in that area would work. This area
needs to be looked at again to best help neighborhoods and businesses in this area.


Kathryn Christensen
The North Village District (NVD) zones are located at the City’s northern gateway. The NVD
zones are intended to be more residential in nature, with neighborhood retail and smaller-scale
development compared to the other four State Street Districts (Code of Ordinances 22-24-5)
There is a lack of clarity on what is defined as “neighborhood retail and smaller-scale
development compared to the other four State Street Districts”. This needs to be clearly defined
before any permits to build be approved. Without defined clarity of these terms business and
buildings could be detrimental to keeping our area residential and smaller-scale development.

Joshua Lowe
As homeowners living on 400 West, we are in agreement with our neighbors and nearby
residents and request that our city council members ask City staff to open an application to
review the North Village District zoning and to continue the discussion on the rezoning of our
homes to R-8 so both items can be evaluated together to better assist in resolving the collateral
issues related to our homes, and the huge impact the current North Village zoning has on our
residence, Windsor and Northridge neighborhoods.

Stephanie Visnaw
As stated in the State Street Master Plan, "The North Village District zones are intended to be
more residential in nature, with neighborhood retail and smaller-scale development compared to
the other four State Street Districts. (State Street Master Plan Code of Ordinances 22-24-5)." As
a resident whose property line borders the North Village District, I encourage the City Council to
take this opportunity to revisit the Master Plan, adjusting zoning to be consistent with the stated

   City Council Minutes – April 13, 2021 (p.13)   A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
                                               DRAFT
purpose of this unique node. I support postponing the R8 rezoning (which all residents are still in
favor of) and request that the Council ask the Staff to immediately open an application to review
general zoning in the District all at once. Taking the time to get this right, working together as
residents and elected city officials, will ensure that the zoning in the North Village District is
aligned with its purpose, protects homes and directs appropriate development for Orem City to
continue to be a great place to live, work and shop as the city grows. As a side note, I would
greatly appreciate City Council Meetings to be in person again. The virtual format is a huge
disadvantage to the public, hindering effective public comments. Once a comment is submitted,
there is no opportunity for clarification or additional insights as the meeting discussion
progresses. Thank you for your continued support.


9.4    PUBLIC HEARING / ORDINANCE - Amending Appendix A of the Orem City
Code by enacting Standard Land Use Code 0303 Shave Ice Shack; and amending Article
22-5-3(A) and the zoning map of the City of Orem by changing the zone of approximately
0.84 acres from the R12 zone to the C1 zone at approximately 1323 East 800 North.

No Comments

9.5   PUBLIC HEARING / ORDINANCE – Amending Section(s) 22-11-35(L)(2)(e), of
the Orem City Code pertaining to roofing materials on buildings in the PD22 zone.

No Comments




City Council Minutes – April 13, 2021 (p.14)    A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
