                                         CITY OF OREM
                              PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING MINUTES
                                         February 3, 2021

The following items are discussed in these minutes:
    ● Vacating Meadowlark Lane, Plat A and approving Meadowlark Lane, Plat B located generally at 925 South
         Carterville Road in the R12 zone - Approved.
    ● Vacating Lot 1 of Orem Center Business Park Subdivision, Plat A and Lot 1 of Orem Center Business Park
         Subdivision, Plat B and approving Orem Center Business Park Subdivision, Plat C located generally at 1226
         South 1480 West in the CM Zone - Approved.
    ● Vacating Lot 2 of Heritage Homes, Plat F and approving Lot 1 of Heritage Homes, Plat L located at 1159
         North 650 East in the R8 zone - Approved.
    ● Site plan approval of Il Capo Personal Storage located at 185 North 1330 West in the M2 Zone - Approved.
    ● Site plan approval of Villa D’Oeste located at 1140 West 950 North in the PD22 Zone. - Approved.
    ● Amending portions of Sections 22-24-5(F)(2)(c), 22-24-5(F)(4)(c), 22-24-4(F)(2)(c), 22-24-4(F)(4)(c), 22-
         24-1(F)(4)(c), 22-24-2(F)(4)(c), and 22-24-3(F)(4)(c) of the Orem City Code pertaining to setback
         requirements and building stepback requirements in the State Street District zones. - Positive
         recommendation to City Council.

STUDY SESSION

Cancelled.

REGULAR MEETING

NOTICE OF ALL-ELECTRONIC MEETING
To minimize the potential spread of COVID-19, and as authorized by Utah Governor Gary Herbert’s March 18, 2020
Executive Order, the Orem City Planning Commission meeting on February 3, 2021 will be an all-electronic meeting.
There will be no public access to the Orem City Council chambers. Those desiring to view or participate in the meeting
must do so electronically. You can view the meeting live at orem.org/meetings. If you want to make a comment, please
use: orem.org/comments.

Comments will be accepted before and during the meeting. All comments received will be read into the record during
the live meeting. Once an item has been voted on, that item will be closed to additional comments. Thank you for your
cooperation during these challenging times.


Place:            Orem City Council Chambers - Electronic

At 4:39 p.m.      Chair Cochran called the Planning Commission meeting to order and offered the invocation. After
                  the invocation, he made the following statement: “I Mickey Cochran, as Chairman of the Orem City
                  Planning Commission, make the following determinations: 1. Under current conditions, conducting
                  an Orem City Planning Commission meeting with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to
                  the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location. 2. This determination is
                  based on the facts that (1) COVID-19 is a worldwide pandemic threatening the health and safety of
                  the residents of Orem; (2) the State of Utah has determined that people should maintain social
                  distancing of at least six feet to help mitigate the spread of COVID-19.”


Those present: Mickey Cochran, Planning Commission Chair; Carl Cook, Camille Jensen, Barry Roberts, Haysam
               Sakar, Ross Spencer, Marisa Bentley, Planning Commission members; Terry Peterson, City Council
               Liaison; Ryan L. Clark, Development Services Director; Jason W. Bench, Planning Division
               Manager; Jake Harding and Cheryl Vargas, Associate Planners; Grant Allen and Matt Taylor, Long
               Range Planners; David Lund, Staff Engineer; Steve Earl, Legal Counsel; Talia Adams, Planning
               Intern; via zoom.

                                                   A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
1
                                Planning Commission minutes for February 3, 2021


Those excused:

Chair Cochran asked Ms. Vargas to introduce Agenda Item 3.1:

Agenda Item 3.1 is a request by Gene Robison to vacate Meadowlark Lane, Plat A and approve Meadowlark Lane,
Plat B located generally at 925 South Carterville Road in the R12 zone.

Staff Presentation: The applicant desires to amend the existing plat to create an additional lot along Carterville Road
to facilitate development.
This area was recently rezoned from the R20 zone to the R12 zone, which is supported by the General Plan designation
of Low Density Residential (LDR) and other lots in the area. With the rezone to R12, the minimum lot size required
is 12,000 square feet. The existing home will remain on Lot 1 which will have 54,851 square feet (1.26 acres). Lot 2
will have 18,177 square feet and Lot 3 will have 16,853 square feet, more than meeting the minimum lot size
requirement.

The small tree-lined lane will remain to maintain the quaint feel of the area; however, the lots will be accessed directly
from Carterville Road.

Recommendation: Staff recommends the Planning Commission vacate Meadowlark Lane, Plat A and approve
Meadowlark Lane, Plat B located generally at 925 South Carterville Road in the R12 zone

There was no discussion on the item.

Chair Cochran opened the public hearing. There was no public comment on the item. Chair Cochran closed the public
hearing.

Planning Commission Action: Ms. Jensen moved to vacate Meadowlark Lane, Plat A and approve Meadowlark
Lane, Plat B located generally at 925 South Carterville Road in the R12 zone. Ms. Bentley seconded the motion. Those
voting aye: Mickey Cochran, Carl Cook, Camille Jensen, Barry Roberts, Haysam Sakar, Ross Spencer, and Marisa
Bentley. The motion passed unanimously.

Chair Cochran asked Ms. Vargas to introduce Agenda Item 3.2:

Agenda Item 3.2 is a request by PBS Holdings to vacate Lot 1 of Orem Center Business Park Subdivision, Plat A
and Lot 1 of Orem Center Business Park Subdivision, Plat B and approve Orem Center Business Park Subdivision,
Plat C located generally at 1226 South 1480 West in the CM Zone.

Staff Presentation: The applicant is seeking to purchase from its neighbor to the north (1176 South 1480 West) a
1,094 square foot strip of property along their shared property line. This would move the property line between them
four feet to the north.

The two lots will still meet the minimum lot size standards of the M2 zone of one quarter acre minimum. Lot 101 will
be 2.12 acres and Lot 102 will be 2.54 acres.

Recommendation: Staff recommends the Planning Commission vacate Lot 1 of Orem Center Business Park
Subdivision, Plat A and Lot 1 of Orem Center Business Park Subdivision, Plat B and approve Orem Center Business
Park Subdivision, Plat C located generally at 1226 South 1480 West in the CM Zone.

There was discussion on the item. Mr. Lund clarified that the reason the proposed easement did not evenly straddle
the property line was because there were existing utilities in the existing easement. They needed to remain.

Chair Cochran opened the public hearing. There was no public comment. Chair Cochran closed the public hearing.

Planning Commission Action: Ms. Bentley moved to vacate Lot 1 of Orem Center Business Park Subdivision, Plat
A and Lot 1 of Orem Center Business Park Subdivision, Plat B and approve Orem Center Business Park Subdivision,
Plat C located generally at 1226 South 1480 West in the CM Zone. Mr. Cook seconded the motion. Those voting aye:
                                                     A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
2
                                Planning Commission minutes for February 3, 2021


Mickey Cochran, Carl Cook, Camille Jensen, Barry Roberts, Ross Spencer, and Marisa Bentley. The motion passed
unanimously.

Chair Cochran asked Ms. Vargas to introduce Agenda Item 3.3:

Agenda Item 3.3 is a request by Doug Helsten to vacate Lot 2 of Heritage Homes, Plat F and approve Lot 1 of
Heritage Homes, Plat L located at 1159 North 650 East in the R8 zone.

Staff Presentation: The applicant is seeking to vacate the Public Utility Easements (PUE) on the west side of the
property. The applicant has provided letters from the five Utility Companies supporting the vacation.

Recommendation: Staff recommends the Planning Commission vacate Lot 2 of Heritage Homes, Plat F and approve
Lot 1 of Heritage Homes, Plat L located at 1159 North 650 East in the R8 zone.

There was discussion on the item. It was mentioned that the five utility companies were Utopia, Comcast, Rocky
Mountain Power, Centurylink, and Dominion Energy.

Chair Cochran opened the public hearing. There was no public comment. Chair Cochran closed the public hearing.

Planning Commission Action: Mr. Spencer moved to vacate Lot 2 of Heritage Homes, Plat F and approve Lot 1 of
Heritage Homes, Plat L located at 1159 North 650 East in the R8 zone. Ms. Jensen seconded the motion. Those voting
aye: Mickey Cochran, Camille Jensen, Carl Cook, Barry Roberts, Haysam Sakar, Ross Spencer, and Marisa Bentley.
The motion passed unanimously.

Chair Cochran asked Ms. Vargas to introduce Agenda Item 3.4:

Agenda Item 3.4 is a request by Rakk Construction to approve the site plan of Il Capo Personal Storage located at
185 North 1330 West in the M2 Zone.

Staff Presentation: The applicant is demolishing an existing building and constructing a new building in its place.
The building to be demolished is approximately 2,200 square feet. The proposed warehouse will be 5,709 square feet.

Zoning:
The proposed site is conforming to the setbacks of the M2 zone. The building will have a maximum height of 23 feet
and 2 inches.

Architecture:
There are no architectural requirements for the M2 zone. The exterior elevations of the project are primarily made of
sheet metal.

Parking:
Eight new parking stalls are required for the site. 13 new stalls are proposed with 1 ADA stall.

Landscaping:
The 5 existing trees on the site will remain. 2 new trees will be planted along the street frontage.

Pedestrian/Bicycle:
A new 5 foot wide sidewalk will be constructed along 1380 West. A bike rack will be installed in the south central
area of the property near the ADA stall.

Transportation/Engineering:
No concerns.

Recommendation: Staff recommends the Planning Commission approve the site plan of Il Capo Personal Storage
located at 185 North 1330 West in the M2 Zone.

                                                     A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
3
                                Planning Commission minutes for February 3, 2021


There was no discussion on the item.

Planning Commission Action: Chair Cochran moved to approve the site plan of Il Capo Personal Storage located at
185 North 1330 West in the M2 Zone. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Mickey Cochran, Camille
Jensen, Carl Cook, Barry Roberts, Ross Spencer, and Marisa Bentley. The motion passed unanimously.

Chair Cochran asked Ms. Vargas to introduce Agenda Item 3.5:

Agenda Item 3.5 is a request by Bruce Dickerson to approve the site plan of Villa D’Oeste located at 1140 West 950
North in the PD22 Zone.

Staff Presentation: The applicant is proposing to construct 100 condominium units across 5 new buildings. He
previously applied for a text amendment to allow this site to be a residential only land use instead of mixed use. That
request was granted in September of 2020. The applicant is now proposing the site plan be approved.

Zoning:
The proposed site plan complies with all minimum setback distances, including 25ft from the north boundary shared
with single family housing. The building heights are below the maximum height of 45ft at 44ft 7.5in.

Architecture:
The proposed roof pitches of 4:12 require the roof to have tile shingles instead of asphalt. If the roof pitch were 3:12
or less, asphalt would be allowed. The exterior materials are from the approved list in the zoning requirements. The
colors of the exterior elevations are from the approved color palette for this zone. Half of the units in each building
have balconies as required by the zoning requirements.

Parking:
As required, parking is setback more than 20ft from the street. The required parking rate for this zone is 2 per unit
which is 200 for this site. Exactly 200 new stalls are being provided.

Dumpster:
As required by the PD22 ordinance, all dumpster enclosures are being enclosed by a sight obscuring fence that matches
the materials of the buildings.

Landscaping:
The landscape plan complies with the PD22 ordinance. In the landscape strip along the street, trees are being provided
at 1 per 30ft of frontage. The required landscaping rate of 1 deciduous tree and 1 evergreen tree per 3,000ft2 of
provided landscaping is being met. The required landscaping of 1 evergreen shrub per residential unit is also being
met.

Lighting Plan:
The required lighting plan is included as part of the site plan. As noted, all exterior lighting will be dark sky sensitive
and no cobra style lights will be provided.

Pedestrian/Bike:
In the PD22 zone, bicycle parking is required and must be covered. This is being shown on the site plan. This zone is
required to encourage pedestrian walkability. The proposed site provides pedestrian walkability internally and to the
street.

Transportation/Engineering:
No concerns.

Recommendation: Staff recommends the Planning Commission approve the site plan of Villa D’Oeste located at
1140 West 950 North in the PD22 Zone.

There was discussion on the item. Some of the key issues that were discussed were:
    ● Switching the roof pitch to allow for asphalt.
                                                     A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
4
                                Planning Commission minutes for February 3, 2021


    ●    The units are for sale, not for rent.
    ●    The Federal Housing Authority requires a minimum of 50% owner occupancy of these units.
    ●    Mr. Earl recommended that the site plan be approved as is rather than with a condition on the change for the
         roof.

Planning Commission Action: Mr. Cook moved to approve the site plan of Villa D’Oeste located at 1140 West 950
North in the PD22 Zone. Ms. Bentley seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Mickey Cochran, Camille Jensen, Carl
Cook, Barry Roberts, Hasyam Sakar, Ross Spencer, and Marisa Bentley. The motion passed unanimously.

Chair Cochran asked Mr. Bench to introduce Agenda Item 3.6:

Agenda Item 3.6 is a request by the Department of Development Services the City amend portions of Sections 22-
24-5(F)(2)(c), 22-24-5(F)(4)(c), 22-24-4(F)(2)(c), 22-24-4(F)(4)(c), 22-24- 1(F)(4)(c), 22-24-2(F)(4)(c), and 22-24-
3(F)(4)(c) of the Orem City Code pertaining to setback requirements and building stepback requirements in the State
Street District zones.

Staff Presentation: Staff is proposing two ordinance amendments pertaining to setback requirements and stepback
requirements in the districts along State Street.

First, during a recent work session discussion with the City Council regarding the five State Street districts it was
requested by members of the City Council that staff review the requirements pertaining to setbacks from residential
zone boundaries that are adjacent to the districts. Particularly, the Council requested we focus on the North Village
District and the Arts District.

Based on a review of the current ordinance an additional amendment is proposed to provide additional mitigation from
potential larger projects encroaching closer to single family residential homes.

The proposed language requires any structure within fifty feet (50’) from a residential zone not part of the district
zones be limited to 35 feet in overall height. In addition, if the residential zone is across a public street the 50-foot
measurement will be from the back of curb on the district side of the street.

The current setback requirements pertaining to the setback equal to height next to a residential property will still apply.
Any development will be required to meet both
requirements, when applicable.

(North Village District)
Section 22-24-5 (F)(2)(c)
c. Setback From Residentially Zoned Property. No portion of any building (including roofs and parapets) in the
NVD zones may be located closer to a residentially zoned property not a part of the NVD zones (including the Res(B)
zone but not including the Res(A) zone) than the height of that portion of the building. In addition, no structure (or
any part thereof) in the NVD-E (Edge) and NVD-Res-A (Residential) zones which is set back less than fifty feet from:
(1) a residential zone not a part of the NVD zones, or (2) the back of curb where the property across the street from
the back of curb is in a residential zone not a part of the NVD zones, shall exceed a height of thirty-five feet. Note:
The width of adjacent public right-of-way may be included when measuring setbacks to calculate maximum permitted
building heights.

(The Arts District (AD) Zones)
Section 22-24-4(F)(2)(c)
c. Setback From Residentially Zoned Property. No portion of any building (including roofs and parapets) in the
AD zones may be located closer to a residentially zoned property not a part of the AD zones than the height of that
portion of the building. In addition, no structure (or any part thereof) in the AD-Civ (Civic) or AD-C (Core) zones
which is set back less than fifty feet from: (1) a residential zone not a part of the AD zones, or (2) the back of curb
where the property across the street from the back of curb is in a residential zone not a part of the AD zones, shall
exceed a height of thirty-five feet. Note: The width of adjacent public right-of-way may be included when measuring
setbacks to calculate maximum permitted building heights.

                                                     A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
5
                                Planning Commission minutes for February 3, 2021


Second, staff requests modifications to the stepback requirements when a proposed building contain residential uses.
Currently, any building that contains residential uses must be stepped back a minimum twenty feet (20’) after the first
floor when the building is four stories or more, has residential uses above the first floor and is within thirty-five feet
of a sidewalk adjacent to the street.

Staff requests a modification to these standards to allow the stepback to begin at the level the residential uses start.
For example, if a building is five stories in height with the first two stories containing office uses and the top three
contain residential uses the stepback requirements would allow the stepback to be on the third floor instead of the
second floor. The 20-foot stepback area was intended to be used as amenity space for the residential uses. The
ordinance requires residential uses to have a minimum of 20% dedicated open space. Commercial lots without a
residential use component are not required any type of open space apart from the required sidewalks and planter strips.

The intent of the proposed ordinance is to provide the area next to the residential uses and not require the amenity
space on the commercial floor. The proposed amendments regarding the stepback requirements will be included in all
five districts as outlined.

(North Village District (NVD) Zones)
Section 22-24-5 (F)(4)(c)
c. Stepbacks. The street-facing façade(s) of the second lowest story that contains residential uses and all stories above
shall be stepped back at least 20 feet behind the façade of the first story immediately below if all of the following
apply:
i. The building is four stories or more in height.
ii. The building is designed for residential uses above the first story in one or more stories.
iii. The building street-facing façade of the ground floor is within 35 feet of a sidewalk adjacent to a street.

Where the second lowest story containing residential uses is set back at least twenty feet behind the façade of the first
story below as required by this subsection, at least seventy-five percent of the open roof area of the first such story
shall be designed for and employed as an amenity for the residential occupants of the building. An illustration of this
requirement is provided below:

(The Arts District (AD) Zones)
Section 22-24-4 (F)(4)(c)
c. Stepbacks. The street-facing façade(s) of the second lowest story that contains residential uses and all stories above
shall be stepped back at least 20 feet behind the façade of the first story immediately below if all of the following
apply:
i. The building is four stories or more in height.
ii. The building is designed for residential uses above the first story in one or more stories.
iii. The building street-facing façade of the ground floor is within 35 feet of a sidewalk adjacent to a street.

Where the second lowest story containing residential uses is set back at least twenty feet behind the façade of the first
story below as required by this subsection, at least seventy-five percent of the open roof area of the first such story
shall be designed for and employed as an amenity for the residential occupants of the building. An illustration of this
requirement is provided below:

(City Center District (CCD) Zones)
Section 22-24-1 (F)(4)(c)
c. Stepbacks. The street-facing façade(s) of the second lowest story that contains residential uses and all stories above
shall be stepped back at least 20 feet behind the façade of the first story immediately below if all of the following
apply:
i. The building is four stories or more in height.
ii. The building is designed for residential uses above the first story in one or more stories.
iii. The building street-facing façade of the ground floor is within 35 feet of a sidewalk adjacent to a street.

Where the second lowest story containing residential uses is set back at least twenty feet behind the façade of the first
story below as required by this subsection, at least seventy-five percent of the open roof area of the first such story

                                                     A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
6
                               Planning Commission minutes for February 3, 2021


shall be designed for and employed as an amenity for the residential occupants of the building. An illustration of this
requirement is provided below:

(The Hub District (HD) Zones)
Section 22-24-2 (F)(4)(c)
c. Stepbacks. The street-facing façade(s) of the second lowest story that contains residential uses and all stories above
shall be stepped back at least 20 feet behind the façade of the first story immediately below if all of the following
apply:
i. The building is four stories or more in height.
ii. The building is designed for residential uses above the first story in one or more stories.
iii. The building street-facing façade of the ground floor is within 35 feet of a sidewalk adjacent to a street.

Where the second lowest story containing residential uses is set back at least twenty feet behind the façade of the first
story below as required by this subsection, at least seventy-five percent of the open roof area of the first such story
shall be designed for and employed as an amenity for the residential occupants of the building. An illustration of this
requirement is provided below:

(Canyon Crossing District (AD) Zones)
Section 22-24-3 (F)(4)(c)
c. Stepbacks. The street-facing façade(s) of the second lowest story that contains residential uses and all stories above
shall be stepped back at least 20 feet behind the façade of the first story immediately below if all of the following
apply:
i. The building is four stories or more in height.
ii. The building is designed for residential uses above the first story in one or more stories.
iii. The building street-facing façade of the ground floor is within 35 feet of a sidewalk adjacent to a street.

Where the second lowest story containing residential uses is set back at least twenty feet behind the façade of the first
story below as required by this subsection, at least seventy-five percent of the open roof area of the first such story
shall be designed for and employed as an amenity for the residential occupants of the building. An illustration of this
requirement is provided below:

Recommendation: Staff recommends the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council to amend portions of Sections 22-24-5(F)(2)(c), 22-24-5(F)(4)(c), 22-24-4(F)(2)(c), 22-24-4(F)(4)(c), 22-24-
1(F)(4)(c), 22-24-2(F)(4)(c), and 22-24- 3(F)(4)(c) of the Orem City Code pertaining to setback requirements and
building stepback requirements in the State Street District zones.

There was discussion on the item. Some of the key issues that were discussed were:
    ● It was clarified that the 50ft setback is only for the North Village District and the Arts District. The other
        amendments apply to all of the districts.
    ● Within 50ft of the residential homes, a developer could only build 35ft hight. This height is the same
        maximum height that the residential homes have.
    ● The maximum height of this zone could be reconsidered later.
    ● Previously, a developer applied to rezone one of these homes to commercial to have access onto 400 West.
        That was denied. Since that time, the zoning and planning for this area has completely changed.
    ● It would be impossible for a developer to build right on the property line shared with these homes. He would
        need to be setback a distance equal to the height of his building.
    ● The intended purpose of the NVD-Res-B zone is to serve as a buffer zone between the R8 zone to the north-
        east and the NVD-Edge zone to the south-west. It would prevent a stark contrast from the intense uses of the
        district and the low density residential of the neighborhood.

Chair Cochran opened the public hearing. There were public comments made on this item. They are attached at the
end of these minutes. Chair Cochran closed the public hearing.

Planning Commission Action: Chair Cochran moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to
amend portions of Sections 22-24-5(F)(2)(c), 22-24-5(F)(4)(c), 22-24-4(F)(2)(c), 22-24-4(F)(4)(c), 22-24-1(F)(4)(c),
22-24-2(F)(4)(c), and 22-24- 3(F)(4)(c) of the Orem City Code pertaining to setback requirements and building
                                                    A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
7
                              Planning Commission minutes for February 3, 2021


stepback requirements in the State Street District zones. Mr. Roberts seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Mickey
Cochran, Camille Jensen, Carl Cook, Barry Roberts, Haysam Sakar, Ross Spencer, and Marisa Bentley. The motion
passed unanimously.

Minutes: The Planning Commission reviewed the minutes from the previous meeting. Ms. Bentley then made a
motion to approve the minutes of the January 13, 2021 Planning Commission meeting. Mr. Cook seconded the motion.
Those voting aye: Mickey Cochran, Carl Cook, Camille Jensen, Barry Roberts, Haysam Sakar, Ross Spencer, and
Marisa Bentley. The motion passed unanimously.

Adjourn: Mr. Spencer moved to adjourn. Chair Cochran seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Mickey Cochran,
Carl Cook, Camille Jensen, Barry Roberts, Haysam Sakar, Ross Spencer, and Marisa Bentley. The motion passed
unanimously.

Adjourn: 6:10 p.m.


                                                     Jason Bench
                                                     Planning Commission Secretary
Approved:




                                                  A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
8
                           Planning Commission minutes for February 3, 2021



Below is a complete list of the public comments for item
3.6:

George and Amanda Ballew - Orem Residents - Read in the meeting
aballew13@gmail.com

“Concerning the proposed development at 16:00 North between state street and 4:00 West, We are
concerned that this development pushes into our neighbourhood too much. We are concerned about
the traffic through this very busy intersection and section of road, there already accidents at 1600 N.
And 400 W. on a regular basis. 2 different times last year alone homeowner fences were taken out by
car crashes down 1600 N. Increasing that congestion with multi family housing and commercial space
would make it more dangerous for those who travel it often. We also do not want another road
connecting state street and 400 w. as has been suggested in plans. This would destroy our boundary
between the busy state street commercial zone and our residential zone, increasing traffic and risk of
crime. We want to preserve the single home neighborhood style of this area. Please do not allow this
high density housing to be put in! Thank you.”

Stephanie Mason - Orem Resident - Partially read in the meeting
travstephmason@gmail.com

“We, the residents of the neighborhood along 400 West adjoining the State Street, North Village
District, wish to convey our concerns about the proposed North Village District zone changes. We
understand that the fifty-foot setback limiting the height of new developments along 400 West is a
positive change to help limit the impact and flow from a commercial area to the residential area.
However, we are concerned that not enough is being done to help this problem.

The North Orem neighborhoods are much quieter and less commercial than other areas of Orem City,
such as the City Center District, the Hub District, The Canyon Crossing District, and even the Arts
District Zones. We fear that, as developments begin to build in this area, the quiet, safe neighborhood
we love is in jeopardy. Many families have resided in these neighborhoods for decades and include
multi-generations from aged parents to small children, for which we have special concerns. Therefore,
we are asking that our concerns be considered before any decisions are made.

The houses that are currently located in the North Village District that are zoned as NVD-Res(B) and
the other homes located along 400 West should be more protected from encroaching developments.
We feel the fifty-foot setback that is proposed is insufficient and request it be extended to seventy-
five or even 100 feet from 400 West street. This would ensure that we have an adequate buffer in the
heights allowed in the edge zone immediately next to our neighborhood.

In addition, we feel that these homes located in this North Village District should have the setback for
height restrictions measured from their backs and sides of the properties to prohibit excessively high
buildings being built directly behind their properties rather than the setback being measured from the
                                             A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
9
                            Planning Commission minutes for February 3, 2021


curb in front of the property (400 West). We also believe that it would be prudent to change these
homes out of the North Village District and back to their original R-zone status to protect the
neighborhood from the encroaching businesses and large multi family developments.

We realize that it is sensible for Orem to continue to grow and do not oppose growth itself. However,
in this area of Orem we residents encourage growth that does not call for excessively high buildings.
We understand that, since the North Village District is the smallest of the state street districts, it does
not have a minimum height requirement. On the other hand, we believe that a maximum height limit
should be set to prevent these neighborhoods, agreeable blends of well-crafted, established older
homes and new homes from being overshadowed by multi-storied, multi-family buildings. We have
no problem with State Street and its attendant business and apartment buildings reflecting the vibrant,
metropolitan side of Orem City; we just ask the City Planning Commission and other concerned parties
to respect and appreciate the value of established, quiet, and safe neighborhoods to the city as well.”

(This comment wasn’t read into the meeting beyond this point due to
reaching the three-minute time limit maximum.)

“We also feel the need to address other concerns we have regarding the possibility of a large multi
family unit being built in the area of 1600 North and 400 West. Increased traffic in this area is not
acceptable. The streets are narrow and the space between State Street and 400 West is so short that
if an entrance to a large multifamily development were built, it would create traffic congestion affecting
two already busy intersections. The 1600 North corridor is very narrow; traffic moves very fast; and
the safety of drivers and pedestrians is of great concern to us. This development could also make
turning left onto 400 West from eastbound 1600 North even more difficult considering the fact that
400 West is a collector road that connects to Lindon and Pleasant Grove. It should be noted that we
anticipate a substantial increase in traffic resulting from the establishment of a new LDS temple on
north 2000 in Lindon. That will be difficult enough, but the increase in congestion as a result of the
apartment complex will hardly be tolerable, and will be extremely detrimental to our neighborhoods.
The surrounding smaller streets, 280 West in particular, would likely see an increase in traffic and
congestion issues as well.

In addition, potential overflow parking from the project considered would inevitably spread to 400
West. The street is not wide enough to accommodate cars parked along it and would create traffic
congestion and safety concerns, particularly in the unfinished portions along the west side. A number
of residents who attended previous meetings regarding this project feel that they were misled and
certain requests were disregarded. The State Street Master Plan in 2015 did NOT include the homes
in the zoning changes. Open houses and city-held charrettes indicated the zoning for the homes would
remain unchanged. Again, this was misleading and changes made were done without the consent or
conversations with the community. This should receive your attention, as well. We appreciate your
consideration in these matters and request that a neighborhood meeting be held, with appropriate
consideration to Covid-19 protocols, to address these concerns before any recommendations or
decisions are made concerning this area.


                                              A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
10
                           Planning Commission minutes for February 3, 2021


We have been asked by many residents of our neighborhoods to include them in this process. Their
names and addresses have been listed below for your information. Of course, for almost all of them,
their names represent families. We respectfully request your indulgence in this matter. The timing of
this letter does not reflect any lack of urgency or seriousness on our part, but rather the difficulty of
addressing the issue during a holiday season seriously impacted by the anxieties attendant to the
Corona virus, accompanying economic stress for many among us, and an undue political climate in a
country and state we all love.




Thank you,


Stephanie and Travis Mason (385 West 1750 North, Orem)
David and Jann Goodsell (329 West 1750 North, Orem)

(Please note: the following list contains nearly 150 adult names representing 74 addresses in the
neighborhoods adjacent to the property in question (84057). Each name is based on an individual
email response to our letter. They all can be verified by contacting them at the addresses listed. We
initiated the petition Friday evening, January 29, and concluded it Monday morning, February 1. We
are confident that given more time we could have doubled the response. We hope this effort verifies
the seriousness of this concern to the Orem residents who reside in this area.)

Kevin and Heather Johnson (460 W 1810 N, Orem)
George and Amanda Ballew (361 W 1780N)
Angela and Gregory Welling (1751 N 240 W)
Glen and Laurie Alder (1958 W 520 W)
Jill and John Barrick (365W 1750 N)
Jason Hunter (1735 N 280 W)
Leon and Stephanie Visnaw (399 W 1560 N)
Kathryn Christensen (426 W 1800 N)
Jim and Christy Giles (324 W 1600 N)
Emily and David Frogley (24 E 1430 N)
Tonia Perl (1420 N. Amiron Way, Unit B)
Rebecca and Kyle Sills (48 E 1575 N)
Andrea Merriman (1788 N 320 W)
Alisha and Jason Hagey (1717 N 400 W)
Steven and Sherry Heaps (1630 N 400 W)
Jim and Krystie Condie (1669 N 400 W)
Roy Bickel (328 W 1750 N)
Josh and Annya Lowe (1657 N 400 W)
Richard and Kherna Shipp (2W @ 1480 )
Jeff and Melissa Kingsolver) 1744 N 350 W)
Steve Lesser (23 W 1440 N)
                                             A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
11
                        Planning Commission minutes for February 3, 2021


Lisa Lesser (23 W 1440 N)
Paul and Janene Judd
Alex and Hillary Quintero (260 W 1340 N)
Jennifer and Jacob Boyer (1600 N 400 W)
Lori Searle (69 E 1430 N)
Jenny and Scot Scribner (1697 N 320 W)
Rose Marie Harolds (1748 N 240 W)
Jordan Farr (1694 350 W)
Cregg and DeAanne Jacobson (1684 N 400 W)
Scott and Miki Golightly (1733 N 320 W)
Maurine Fronckowiak (1438 N Amiron Way, unit A)
Dennis and Loretta Eggett (1735 N 350 W)
Bill and Katrina Bleyl (1835 N 400 W)
Terry and Suzanne Hodson (1747 N 280 W)
Robert and Betty Hawkins (21 E 1575 N)
Brook and Brandon Davies (1899 N 280 W)
Nathan and Natlie Haye (1736 N 400 W)
Shane and Lindy Lewis (1777 N 280 W)
Rich and Shari Anderson (1761 N 240 W)
Dale and Karen Tree (1774 N 240 W)
Zach and Deveri Orton (360 W 750 N)
Dale Pomeroy (1725 N 240 W)
Nancy Pomeroy (1725 N 240 W)
John and Jilene Mecham (1681 N 240 W)
Lorien and Rick Anderton (1826 N 450 W)
Jason McCune (1981 N Ribbonwood Dr.)
Elgin and Lei Anne Ward (1760 N 240 W)
Janice Jenkins (328 W Amiron Way, C)
Dave & Tonya Patterson (461 W 1885 N)
Jeffrey Turner (1547 N 375 W)
Hillary and Brian Washburn (454 W 1780 N)
Jared Kozlowski (1762 N 280 W)
Roger and Jessica Bosley (1574 N 375 W, Unit B)
Shelly and Jason Pierce (1819 N 490 W)
Ryan and Irena Spackman (382 W 1600 N)
Kim and Betty Laudie (1826 N 400 W)
Melanie Lafranca (441 W 1950 N)
Cristy Bauer (1818 N 450W)
Casey Jensen (455 W 1780 N)
Trevor and Robyn Hunsaker (469 W 1885 N)
Adam and Ashley Bishop (377 W 1780 N)
Ann Webb (385 W 1520 N)
Jeff Wilkes (322 W 1750 N)
Kim and Betty Laudie (1826 N 400 W)
                                         A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
12
                          Planning Commission minutes for February 3, 2021


Karna Hirschmann (1438 N 280 W)
Rob and Cami Smith (470 W 1810 N)
Cassi and Caleb Pope (1825 N 450 W)
Ron and Judy Casper (1842 N 320 W)
Bob Norton (24 E 1575 N)
Ron and Sheri Stringham (1860 N 430 W)
Kieth and Pardi Weakley (1699 N 280 W)
Jeff and Melinda Wilks (322 W 1750 N)”

Stephanie Mason - Orem Resident - Not read into the meeting due
to this being Ms. Mason’s second comment
travstephmason@gmail.com

“I just want to reiterate the need for a height maximum for the North Village District. The setback
requirement is positive and I support that change but more needs to be done to protect the
surrounding neighborhoods from excessively tall, high density housing and commercial developments
even within the North Village District.”

Heather Johnson - Orem Resident - Read in the meeting
hrjohnso@gmail.com

“In regards to agenda item 3.6: I am in favor of increasing setback requirements in this area. I also
believe the residents on 400 West (just north of 1600 North) should be able to reverse the zoning of
their homes BACK TO RESIDENTIAL. This IS a neighborhood we are proud of and we want it to stay
that way. The proposed apartments for the corner of 1600 N and 400 W are entirely too tall for the
area and the surrounding homes. The lot is too small and the streets already too crowded to add more
dwellings of this size. The corner property is much better suited for one small business/building and
the existing home should be kept as a home. The developer has been sneaky and is of course pushing
for his personal profits. Please listen to the HUNDREDS of neighbors and families opposed to this
project and place their interests over that of one business man. Orem is "FAMILY CITY USA", not New
York City. Let's keep Orem a place our families want to live. Thank you.”

Kevin Johnson - Orem Resident - Read in the meeting
kjjson@hotmail.com

“Public Hearing item 3.6: I support increasing set backs to 50 feet or more to protect homes, rezoning
homes on 400 West and north of 1600 North back to R-8 (residential occupancy homes), and
conservative height restrictions of any building in this corner. I oppose the building of a street
connecting State Street to 400 west because I am concerned about shifting State Street and business
traffic onto residential streets. I have been an Orem resident over 40 years. I love Orem and want to
see it stay a great place for families. Thank you for supporting our neighborhood.”

Ivan Shelton - Orem Resident - Read in the meeting
                                            A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
13
                           Planning Commission minutes for February 3, 2021


sheltoniv@gmail.com

“Concerning agenda #3.6 Was wondering why there is meetings with council members and neighbors
about this rezoning this area without an official neighborhood meeting called or a public hearing.
Seems like the neighborhood has it in for anyone who want to develop in that area of 1600 north and
400 west.”

Lanae Millett - Orem Resident - Read in the meeting
lanae.millett@gmail.com

“Question: regarding 22-24-5 (F)(4)(c) iii Is 35 feet the required distance of the ground floor from the
sidewalk or can the building be closer than 35 ft to the sidewalk? Is there a minimum set back? A
suggested setback? Also, would you give an example, if the building has 4 stories of offices, how close
would it be to the street”


Alan Rasmussen - Orem Resident - Read in the meeting
Gr8DadR@gmail.com

“Item 3.6: Parking is a large issue for these types of developments. As we drive by these high-density
housing projects there are significant issues with vehicles being parked on public streets. What is
being done on this project to supply sufficient parking within the development?”


Stephanie Mason - Orem Resident - Not read in the meeting due to
this being Ms. Mason’s third comment
travstephmason@gmail.com

“Is it possible to make a 75 foot setback rather than a 50 foot setback?”

Stephanie Visnaw - Orem Resident - Read in the meeting
visnaw@gmail.com

“Can I give my 3 minutes to Stephanie Mason - to finish her comment?”

Mr. Earl, Legal Counsel, explained that this was not possible.


Jim Condie - Orem Resident - Read in the meeting
condieji@gmail.com

“I live in one of the homes in the Res B area and would much prefer for my home to be back to the
original zone. And, have the largest buffer possible to protect my back yard from a large development.”




                                             A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
14
                          Planning Commission minutes for February 3, 2021



Stephanie Visnaw - Orem Resident - Not read in the meeting due to
the public hearing being closed
visnaw@gmail.com

“Approving this setback protects the residents adjacent to the NVD Edge Zone. The developer who
proposed the multi-family housing on the corner of 400 W and 1600 N, has purchased a home in the
NVD-ResB and requested it be rezoned to the NVD Edge Zone - hence the neighborhood meeting in
November. This setback proposal protects the homes in residential zones. I live in a home adjacent
to commercial property on State Street with this same setback requirement being proposed, and I
would hope this same setback requirement would be applied to these residential homes, as well.”


Lanae Millett - Orem Resident - Not read into the meeting, but
addressed after the public hearing was closed as described below
lanae.millett@gmail.com

“There is a comment on the youtube chat.”

Mr. Allen explained after the public hearing had closed that comments received via YouTube were not
considered public comment. Comments received through the orem.org/comments page was the
official channel to submit public comments.




                                            A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
15
