                                          CITY OF OREM
                               PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING MINUTES
                                            May 5, 2021

The following items are discussed in these minutes:
    ● Site plan approval of Swig University Parkway located at 76 East University Parkway in the PD5 zone. -
         Positive recommendation to City Council.
    ● Amending Article 22-5-3(A) and the zoning map of the City of Orem by changing the zone of approximately
         0.21 acres from the R8 zone to the R7.5 zone at approximately 770 West 650 South; also amending Chapter
         2 Land Use of the Orem General Plan by changing the designation on the land use map of approximately
         0.21 acres from the LDR designation to the MDR designation at approximately 770 West 650 South. -
         Positive recommendation to City Council.

STUDY SESSION - Canceled

REGULAR MEETING

NOTICE OF ALL-ELECTRONIC MEETING
To minimize the potential spread of COVID-19, and as authorized by Utah Governor Gary Herbert’s March 18, 2020,
Executive Order, the Orem City Planning Commission meeting on May 5, 2021, will be an all-electronic meeting.
There will be no public access to the Orem City Council chambers. Those desiring to view or participate in the meeting
must do so electronically. You can view the meeting live at orem.org/meetings. If you want to make a comment, please
use orem.org/comments.

Comments will be accepted before and during the meeting. All comments received will be read into the record during
the live meeting. Once an item has been voted on, that item will be closed to additional comments. Thank you for your
cooperation during these challenging times.


Place:            Orem City Council Chambers - Electronic

At 4:31 p.m.      Chair Cochran called the Planning Commission meeting to order and asked Barry Roberts to offer
                  the invocation. After the invocation, Chair Cochran made the following statement: “I Mickey
                  Cochran, as Chairman of the Orem City Planning Commission, make the following determinations:
                  1. Under current conditions, conducting an Orem City Planning Commission meeting with an anchor
                  location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor
                  location. 2. This determination is based on the facts that (1) COVID-19 is a worldwide pandemic
                  threatening the health and safety of the residents of Orem; (2) the State of Utah has determined that
                  people should maintain social distancing of at least six feet to help mitigate the spread of COVID-
                  19.”


Those present: Mickey Cochran, Planning Commission Chair; Marisa Bentley, Carl Cook, Barry Roberts, Planning
               Commission members; Terry Peterson, City Council Liaison; Jason W. Bench, Planning Division
               Manager; Jake Harding and Cheryl Vargas, Associate Planners; Grant Allen and Matt Taylor, Long
               Range Planners; Sam Kelly, City Engineer; Steve Earl, Legal Counsel; Talia Adams, Planning
               Intern; Ryan Clark, Director of Development Services; Roger Dudley; Cass Tenney; Bill Fairbanks.
Those excused: Haysam Sakar and Ross Spencer, Planning Commissioners

                  Chair Cochran asked Ms. Vargas to introduce Agenda Item 3.1:

Agenda Item 3.1 is a request by Savory Swig Stores LLC for the City to grant site plan approval of Swig University
Parkway located at 76 East University Parkway in the PD5 zone.



                                                    A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
1
                                  Planning Commission minutes for May 5, 2021


Staff Presentation: The applicant is proposing to build a new commercial drive-thru soda shop on University
Parkway. The new building will be 573 square feet and the proposed location will be between El Pollo Loco and
Chili’s, adjacent to University Parkway in the PD5 zone.

Architecture:
The proposed building will meet the materials requirements of the PD5 zone. The materials for the building will be
thin brick, simulated wood siding (fiber cement panels and CMU (Wainscot). The majority of the elevations will be
the thin brick and the other materials will cover less than 50% of the elevations per the PD5 zone requirements.

Parking:
Twenty-six parking stalls will be removed with the addition of the new building. This zone requires that there be 1,059
parking stalls for the entire zone. The applicant has provided a revised parking plan showing 1,067 parking stalls
which more than meets the minimum requirement. Also, on Lot 1, Ashley Furniture, the Willey parcel’s building will
be reduced from 5,000 square feet to 4,000 square feet, which allows for an additional 1,000 square feet for other
development.

Landscaping:
The applicant’s landscape plan complies with all applicable PD5 zoning codes.

Transportation/Engineering:
No Concerns. The PD5 zone requires the City Council to approve any site plan in the PD5 zone.




Recommendation: Staff recommends the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the site plan of Swig University Parkway located at 76 East University Parkway in the PD5 zone with the
condition that the Storm Water questionnaire is completed and approved prior to obtaining a building permit.

Chair Cochran asked the applicant to come forward and address the commission.

Ms. Tenney indicated that the biggest issue staff had during DRC was parking requirements. She said that issue had
now been taken care of. A frequent concern municipalities in Utah often have with their business is the number of
cars stacking in the drive-thru. She said that their business model uses “line busters” to reduce that traffic. She said
                                                    A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
2
                                 Planning Commission minutes for May 5, 2021


that the current average time a customer waits at the window is under a minute. She was confident that there would
not be a traffic issue.

Chair Cochran asked if this drive-thru would have only one lane. Ms. Tenney affirmed that would be only one lane.
Chair Cochran asked if Ms. Tenney if she was confident there would not be a bottleneck whatsoever. She indicated
she was.

Mr. Cook commented that it appeared that staff’s recommendation to the Commission included a condition that the
Storm Water plan be approved. He asked if this condition had been resolved yet. Ms. Vargas said that it had not yet
been resolved. The Storm Water plan had been submitted, but had not yet been approved.

Chair Cochran asked if anything would change on the site plan with the Storm Water plan being submitted. Ms. Vargas
indicated that no changes were expected to be made on the site plan with this Storm Water plan and that staff believed
the plan would be approved before this site plan went before the City Council.

Chair Cochran opened the public hearing. When no one came forward, he closed the hearing and turned to the
Commission for a motion.

Planning Commission Action: Mr. Cook moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the
site plan of Swig University Parkway located at 76 East University Parkway in the PD5 zone with the condition that
the Storm Water questionnaire is completed and approved prior to obtaining a building permit. Mr. Roberts seconded
the motion. Those voting aye: Mickey Cochran, Carl Cook, Barry Roberts, and Marisa Bentley. The motion passed
unanimously.

Chair Cochran asked Ms. Vargas to introduce Agenda Item 3.2:

Agenda Item 3.2 is a request by Bill Fairbanks to amend Article 22-5-3(A) and the zoning map of the City of Orem
by changing the zone of approximately 0.21 acres from the R8 zone to the R7.5 zone at approximately 770 West 650
South; also amend Chapter 2, Land Use, of the Orem General Plan by changing the designation on the land use map
of the same acreage from the LDR designation to the MDR designation at approximately 770 West 650 South

Staff Presentation: The applicant is proposing a zone change from R8 to R7.5 to allow him to subdivide his property.
This single property was originally two lots. The properties were purchased together and sometime after merged into
one. The owner is proposing to split his lot into two.

The R8 zone requires a minimum of 80ft of frontage. If a lot with this minimum frontage were created, portions of the
existing home would need to be torn down. This is why the applicant is requesting the rezone. There is an existing
exception in the City Code (22-6-8(C)) that allows for lots with up to 85% of the minimum frontage that still meet the
minimum area requirement. However, the applicant does not qualify for this exception because his lot is a platted lot.
The R7.5 zone requires a minimum frontage of 75ft, which is why the applicant is seeking a rezone.

Chapter 2.1.1 of the Orem General Plan designates this and surrounding properties as Low-Density Residential (LDR).
The R7.5 zone is not classified as a Low-Density Residential zone, it is classified as Medium Density Residential.
Therefore, the applicant is requesting a General Plan Amendment for his property to allow for this rezone to occur.

The applicant was required to hold a neighborhood meeting. Due to the current pandemic, the applicant held three
neighborhood meetings each with limited attendance. A total of twelve individuals attended the meetings. Five of
those attendees provided written input on the proposal. One was in favor of the change, a couple was in favor only if
the proposed new lot was to be the only lot in the R7.5 zone, another couple was not in favor of the change. These
comments and the contact information of the attendees are attached to the staff report for this item.




                                                   A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
3
                               Planning Commission minutes for May 5, 2021




Recommendation: Staff recommends the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council to amend article 22-5-3(A) and the zoning map of the City of Orem by changing the zone of approximately
0.21 acres from the R8 zone to the R7.5 zone at approximately 770 West 650 South; also to amend Chapter 2 Land
Use of the Orem General Plan by changing the designation on the land use map of the same acreage from the LDR
designation to the MDR designation at approximately 770 West 650 South.

Chair Cochran asked for clarification and Ms. Vargas gave it. The reason for this rezone was not a minimum area
issue, it was a minimum frontage issue.
                                                A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
4
                                 Planning Commission minutes for May 5, 2021



Chair Cochran asked the applicant to come forward and address the commission.

Bill Fairbanks clarified that the proposed new lot would be 8,900 square feet. Even though the R7.5 is labeled as a
medium-density residential zone, the actual use of the proposed lot would be low-density residential.

Chair Cochran asked the Commission if they had any questions.

Mr. Cook asked if there was no other way to allow this proposed lot to be created besides rezoning it. He asked if a
variance might be a more appropriate avenue.

Ms. Vargas repeated that there was a mechanism in the City Code that allowed for some exceptions to the minimum
frontage. However, this lot did not qualify for an exception because it had previously been platted.

Mr. Bench said that there were lots throughout the City where similar zone changes had been done before in the past.
He indicated that medium-density residential was still single-family homes and that it was the Commission’s
responsibility to determine if this rezone would make sense.

Chair Cochran asked if Mr. Cook’s question had been answered.

Mr. Cook guessed that his question had been answered. He indicated that he was trying to look over the neighborhood
meeting minutes and determine if there were any concerns.

Chair Cochran asked Mr. Fairbanks to elaborate on the neighborhood meetings.

Mr. Fairbanks said the minutes do not reflect that 25 people attended the meetings. He said that of those 25 that
attended, there was only one couple that did not want to see the rezone happen at all. There were a lot of attendees
that did not want to see both lots rezoned to R7.5, which the City made him change through the DRC process. The
rest of the neighborhood seemed to be okay about the rezone except for the one couple. Mr. Fairbanks indicated that
he understood that there might be some anxiety for upzones.

Chair Cochran asked Mr. Cook if his concerns were resolved. Mr. Cook said they were.

Chair Cochran opened the public hearing. Mr. Clark read one public comment into the meeting that had been received
previously from Devin Rich, a current resident of Orem: “Bill Fairbanks Rezone from R8 to R7.5 in Sunset Heights
I'm fine with the rezone if the Conrad's (next door) at 760 W 650 S aren't opposed. I live 3 doors up at 613 S 800 W.”

Shortly after the comment was read into the meeting, Mr. Earl asked Chair Cochran if he had actually opened the
public hearing. Mr. Clark said that Chair Cochran had.

When no more public comments were made, Chair Cochran closed the public hearing and turned to the Commission
for a motion.

Planning Commission Action: Mr. Roberts moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council to
amend article 22-5-3(A) and the zoning map of the City of Orem by changing the zone of approximately 0.21 acres
from the R8 zone to the R7.5 zone at approximately 770 West 650 South; also to amend Chapter 2 Land Use of the
Orem General Plan by changing the designation on the land use map of the same acreage from the LDR designation
to the MDR designation at approximately 770 West 650 South. Ms. Bentley seconded the motion. Those voting aye:
Mickey Cochran, Carl Cook, Barry Roberts, and Marisa Bentley. The motion passed unanimously.

Minutes: The Planning Commission reviewed the minutes from the previous meeting. Chair Cochran then made a
motion to approve the minutes of the April 21, 2021 Planning Commission meeting. Mr. Cook seconded the motion.
Those voting aye: Mickey Cochran, Carl Cook, Barry Roberts, and Marisa Bentley. The motion passed unanimously.

Adjourn: Ms. Bentley moved to adjourn. Chair Cochran seconded the motion. Those voting aye: Mickey Cochran,
Carl Cook, Barry Roberts, and Marisa Bentley. The motion passed unanimously.
                                                   A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
5
                         Planning Commission minutes for May 5, 2021



Adjourn: 4:58 p.m.


                                          Jason Bench
                                          Planning Commission Secretary
Approved: June 3, 2021




                                        A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meetings
6
