REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
of the
CITY OF OREM
December 9, 2025
CONDUCTING Mayor David Young
BOARD OF DIRECTORS David Young, David Spencer, Jeff Lambson, Chris
Killpack, and LaNae Millett (ZOOM Tom Macdonald and
Jenn Gale)
APPOINTED STAFF Brenn Bybee, City Manager; Ryan Clark, Assistant City
Manager; Keri Rugg, Deputy City Manager; Steve Earl,
City Attorney; Chris Tschirki, Public Works Director;
Brandon Nelson, Finance Director; Derek Spencer, Fire
Division Chief; BJ Robinson, Police Chief; Bryce Merrill,
Library and Recreation Director; Gary McGinn,
Community Development Director; Peter Wolfley,
Communications Manager, PIO; Teresa McKitrick, City
Recorder
RDA CONSENT ITEMS
Approval of RDA Meeting Minutes for June 10, 2025
Mr. Macdonald moved to approve the RDA minutes for June 1, 2025, seconded by Ms. Gale.
Those voting yes: David Young, LaNae Millett, David Spencer, Tom Macdonald, Jeff Lambson,
Chris Killpack and Jenn Gale. The motion passed.
RDA SCHEDULED ITEMS
RESOLUTION - Approving a Third Amendment to the Participation Agreement with
University Shopping Center, L.C. Presenter: Ryan Clark, Assistant City Manager
Mr. Clark presented the Third Amendment to the RDA Participation Agreement, framing
it as the binding legal mechanism to "memorialize" the neighborhood protections negotiated
earlier in the evening. He explained that while the 2024 version of the agreement envisioned a
different building orientation, this update officially codifies the new Home Depot layout and
replaces the previous site exhibits. City Attorney Earl clarified that this contract provides the
city's ultimate leverage; the 12-foot wall height, specific building setbacks, and the land
conveyance are now mandatory milestones the developer must meet to qualify for tax increment
financing. In a final refinement of the land transfer, Mr. Woodbury agreed to drop the "right of
RDA Minutes —December ,, 2025, (pg.1) 4 complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meeting

first refusal" buy-back option to avoid legal complications for the homeowners. Instead, the land
will be conveyed to the neighbors with a simple deed restriction ensuring it remains permanent
green space. The Council concluded by authorizing the Mayor to sign the finalized agreement
once the legal language is updated to reflect these specific concessions.
Mr. Killpack moved that the Redevelopment Agency of the City of Orem authorizes and
approves the Third Amendment to the participation agreement and authorizes the chair of the
governing board of the Redevelopment agency of the City of Orem to execute the third
amendment to the participation agreement on behalf of the agency subject to that third
amendment and the exhibit being modified to reflect that there will be a 12 foot wall constructed
by university mall and approximately 7 feet of the existing landscaping being conveyed to the
two adjoining neighbors, seconded by Ms. Millett. Those voting yes: David Young, LaNae
Millett, David Spencer, Tom Macdonald, Jeff Lambson, Chris Killpack and Jenn Gale. The
motion passed.
ADJOURN
Ms. Millett moved to adjourn, seconded by Mr. Lambson. Those voting yes: David Young,
LaNae Millett, David Spencer, Tom Macdonald, Jeff Lambson, Chris Killpack and Jenn Gale.
The motion passed.
(These minutes were created with the help of Al)
PASSED and APPROVED on this 12th day of May 2026.
Karen McCandless, Chair
eae ORME
ATTEST: SS NG
{ / <; *CtNtzey \ ZS
} / $ |
ON QR Meld anal)
Terésa McKitrick, City Recorder 0
BOARD MEMBER AYE NAY ABSTAIN ABSENT
Mayor Karen McCandless Lx ia] o o
Chris Killpack ial Qo a a
RDA Minutes —December ,, 2025, (pg.2) A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meeting

Crystal Muhlestein iy on Oo Oo
Jeff Lambson a a i)
Jenn Gale a Q i)
LaNae Millett pa a im go
Quinn Mecham [a a o im)
RDA Minutes —December ,, 2025, (pg.3) 4 complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meeting

