REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
of the

CITY OF OREM
March 12, 2024

CONDUCTING Mayor David A. Young

BOARD OF DIRECTORS David Young, David Spencer, LaNae Millett, Chris
Killpack, Jeff Lambson and Jenn Gale

APPOINTED STAFF Brenn Bybee, City Manager; Ryan Clark, Assistant City
Manager/Development Services Director; Steve Earl, City
Attorney; Brandon Nelson, Finance Director; Marc
Sanderson, Fire Chief; Chris Tschirki, Josh Adams, Police
Chief; Public Works Director; Bryce Merrill, Library and
Recreation Director; Jesse Riddle, Director of Legislative
Counsel; Jason Bench, Assistant Development Services
Director; Tyler Peay, Public Services Division Manager;
Peter Wolfley, Communications Manager, PIO; Carson
Hardy, Management Analyst; Teresa McKitrick, City
Recorder

RDA CONSENT ITEMS
Appr f RDA Meeting Min 202

Mr. Lambson moved to approve the RDA meeting minutes for June 13, 2023, seconded
by Ms. Millett. Those voting yes: David Young, LaNae Millett, Chris Killpack, David Spencer,

Jeff Lambson, Tom Macdonals and Jenn Gale. The motion passed.

https://www.voutube.com/watch?v=YbpyvuY7YL00&t=11721s

RDA SCHEDULED ITEMS

Resolution to amend the Participation Agreement for the University Place Community
Development Project Area Presenter: Steve Earl, City Attorney

Mr. Earl explained that this is a proposed amendment to the participation agreement for
the University Place Community Development Project Area. Tax increment is the difference in
the taxable value of land in the project area on a base year versus the increase in the taxable
value as additional buildings and improvements are constructed. The University Place would
qualify for certain amounts of this tax increment as they obtained or achieved certain

RDA Minutes —March 12, 2024, (pg.1) A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meeting
benchmarks or criteria that were outlined in a participation agreement. Mr. Earl displayed a table
of the Tax Increment Reimbursement Structure. The redline is the proposed changes. The
University Place has completed the benchmarks for 1 and 2. Benchmark 3 requires 300.000
square feet of Class A office space. One of the results of COVID-19 is a reduction in the demand
for office space, but they are experiencing demand for additional retail space. The resolution
recommends replacing 300,000 square feet of office space with 100,000 square feet of new retail.
This is a shift of increased retail space up one benchmark.

Mr. Earl spoke of the City’s interest to protect the neighboring residential properties. The
new retail space is on the edge of some existing residential dwellings. The City is requiring
separation requirements for the development. University would need to maintain the setbacks
required and to install buffering in terms of trees that would be installed as part of the
landscaping. He reviewed the development standards requirements. Mayor Young asked Mr. Earl
to clarify the changes in the increment reimbursement structure. Each of the benchmarks, starting
at 3, will shift down 100,000 square feet until benchmark 8. All requirements in benchmark 8
will remain the same. Mr. Lambson asked about time limits for each benchmark and Mr, Earl
said there is not a time limit, but to collect the maximum amount of increments they would need
to complete it by 2039. Ms. Gale asked Mr. Earl to explain the benefit to the City. The benefit is
it keeps the incentive for University Place to improve and expand. This means there will not be
an increase in jobs or sales tax. The money is a reimbursement for infrastructure.

Mr. Earl continued to explain that the PD-34 zone was amended to allow additional retail,
office, and residential. The intention was for the project to stay largely retail and a provision was
included that the number of residential units that they could construct would be limited to 1.5
residential units per 1,000 square feet of retail space. They currently have about 1.2 million
square feet of retail space, which would entitle them to around 1,500 residential units. A
provision was included in this proposed amendment that whatever retail space they construct to
meet this new benchmark 3, will not be used to allow them to construct new residential units.

Mr. Lambson moved to amend by resolution the Participation Agreement for the
University Place Community Development Project Area, seconded by Mr. Killpack. Those
voting yes: David Young, LaNae Millett, Chris Killpack, David Spencer, Jeff Lambson, and Jenn
Gale. The motion passed.

ADJOURN MEETING
Ms. Millett moved to adjourn, seconded by Mr. Lambson. Those voting yes: David

Young, LaNae Millett, Chris Killpack, David Spencer, Jeff Lambson, and Jenn Gale. The motion
passed.

PASSED and APPROVED this 14" day of May 2024.

RDA Minutes —March 12, 2024, (pg.2) A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meeting
OWS CZ

David A. Young, Mayor” al

ATTEST:

Teresa McKitrick, City Recorder

COUNCIL MEMBER AYE NAY ABSTAIN
Mayor David A. Young 14 oO o
Chris Killpack yy Oo o
David Spencer 14 Oo Oo
Jeff Lambson yt o Oo
Jenn Gale a a o oO
LaNae Millett uw a oO
Tom Macdonald Qo o oO

RDA Minutes —March 12, 2024, (pg.3) A complete video of the meeting can be found at www.orem.org/meeling
