mN | ELECTED OFFICER
Elected officers of the City of West Jordan (“City”) are required to comply with the provisions and requirements outlined
in West Jordan Code § 1-11-1, ef seq. (including Article A), Utah Code §§ 10-3-1301, et seg. (Municipal Officers’ and
Employees’ Ethics Act), and Utah Code §§ 67-16-1, et seq. (Utah Public Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act). Elected
officials are required to complete this form and submit it to the City Recorder between January 1-31 each calendar
year. Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3-1313(5), any elected official who fails to complete and submit this form
within seven calendar days after receiving notice of their failure to do so is guilty of a class B misdemeanor,
will be reported to the attorney general, and is subject to a $100 fine.
HOUSEHOLD INFORMATION
Your name: _KentL Shelton
Your spouse’s name: Jenni N Shelton
The name of all adults residing in your household not related by marriage or blood:
DISCLOSURE OF EMPLOYMENT
For all individuals listed above, identify all current employers, and all employers during the preceding calendar
year, including a brief description of the employment, occupation, and job title:
Kent Shelton, Self Employed at Shelton Photography; Photographer. Kent Shelton and Jenni
Shelton, West Jordan City; City Council, Crossing Guard. Jenni Shelton, Jordan School District;
Teacher.
DISCLOSURE OF BUSINESS INTERESTS
Identify all entities that you currently, or did during the preceding year, own(ed), in whole or in part, or serve(d)
as an officer, including the business or activity the entity engage(d) in and your position in the entity:
Turret Enterprises, LLC., Member. Photography Business :
Lone Peak Property Group, Member. Real Estate Investment
DISCLOSURE OF EARNINGS
Identify all individuals or entities that paid you $5,000 or more during the preceding year, including a brief
description of the type of business or activity conducted by the individual or entity:
Obeo Inc., Real Estate Photography. Brim Properties, Property Management. West Jordan City.
Turret Enterprises LLC.

1


DISCLOSURE OF INVESTMENTS
Identify all entities in which you currently, or during the preceding year, own(ed) stock or bonds having a fair
market value of $5,000 or more (excluding funds managed by a third-party - i.e. blind trusts, managed
investment accounts, and mutual funds), including the entity and the type of business or activity the entity is
involved:
Turret Enterprises, LLC., Lone Peak Property Group
DISCLOSURE OF LEADERSHIP POSITIONS
If not listed above, identify all entities for you currently, or during the preceding year, serve(d) in a paid
leadership capacity or as a paid or unpaid director, including the name of the entity, the type of business or
activity the entity is involved, and your position:
a="
OTHER (optional)
Identify any other information, including real property interests, you believe may represent a conflict of interest:
snes
DISCLOSER ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
I acknowledge that I have read and understand West Jordan Code § 1-11-1, ef seg. (including Article A for
elected officials), Utah Code §§ 10-3-1301, et seg. (Municipal Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act), and Utah Code §§
67-16-1, et seg. (Utah Public Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act), 1 have included and made all required
disclosures, I have accurately and truthfully represented all information disclosed on this form, and I understand the
penalties for improper disclosure or otherwise violating applicable provisions of City and State law include criminal
removal from office.
Name KentL Shelton
Signature FL Zz Li , Date oy, Z z /pone
RECEIVED ‘
City Record Z Dat /
ity Recorder ate FO.
2
