Tyrone Fields
9/09/2021
FINAL: Only required for candidates eliminated in the Primary Election. Due by 5:00 PM on September
9", 2021, which is no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the Primary Election


7a CAMPAIGN FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORT
JORDAN 2021 MUNICIPAL ELECTION
UTAH Report of Contributions & Expenditures for Mayor and Council Members
Instructions: Only fill out the areas in blue and the checkbox(s). The rest of the form will auto-populate.
CANDIDATE INFORMATION
Last Name First Name Middle Name
Fields Tyrone B
Address City Zip Code
P| West Jordan 84084
Type of Campaign (check one)
I Mayor D4 At-Large Council Member ! District Council Member
REPORT PERIOD (Check Appropriate Box)
All days are calendar days
INTERIM: Required by all candidates. Due by 5:00 PM on August 3rd, 2021, which is seven (7) days
before the date of the primary election, if a primary election is held.
To include all contributions received and expenditures made, if any, up through five (5) days prior to the date this
Disclosure Report is due, excluding those previously reported.
¥ MNAL: Only required for candidates eliminated in the Primary Election. Due by 5:00 PM on September
Lu S h, 2021, which is no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the primary election, if any.
oO =~ [To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign, excluding those previously
> LL ies eported.
te) = ak his report confirms closure of the campaign account.
Q N
~ 9g mn $ a NTERIM: Required for all candidates who were successful in the Primary Election or who are otherwise
=r - roceeding to the municipal general election. Due by 5:00 PM on October 26, 2021, which is seven
ra} a a “>\7) days before the date of the municipal general election, if any.
Lu O xan 0 include all contributions received and expenditures made, if any, through five (5) days prior to the date this
oe c aia Report is due, excluding those previously reported.
(S) F FINAL: Required by all candidates who participated in the Municipal General Election. Due by 5:00 PM
on December 2nd, 2021, which is no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the municipal
To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign, excluding those previously
reported.
This report confirms closure of the campaign account.
CURRENT ELECTED OFFICIAL: Required by all elected officials for each calendar year in office. Due
no later than June 1st of each calendar year in elected office.
To include all contributions received and expenditures made since the immediately prior campaign financial
disclosure report was filled.
Mail or deliver this report to: Email this report to: For more information, contact:
West Jordan City Recorder's Office tangee.sloan@westiordan.utah.gov (801) 576-5000
8000 South Redwood Road
West Jordan, UT 84088
CANDIDATE CAMPAIGN FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Each blue area is required information. Other information will fill automatically from required Attachments A & B.
1. Balance carried forward from last report $ 45.00
Page 1


(Zero if first report, or Line 6 from previous report)
2. Total contributions of $50 or less per donor during this reporting period $ *
(Automatic entry from Attachment A, line 1)
3. Total contributions of more than $50 per donor during this reporting period $ -
(Automatic entry from Attachment A, line 2)
4. Total contributions as of this report. $ F
(Automatic calculation, line 2 plus line 3)
5. Total expenditures or obligations incurred during this reporting period. $ =
(Automatic entry from Attachment B)
6. Ending Balance for this reporting period $ 45.00
(Automatic calculation, Line 1 plus line 4, less line 5)
By my signature, | certify: (1) all contributions and expenditures not previously reported have been reported; (2) there
are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in this disclosure; (3) the disclosure represents my
good faith effort to comply with West Jordan City Ordinances and Utah State Law; (4) | understand that pursuant to state
law failing to timely file a full and complete Campaign Financial Disclosure Report will result in the removal of my name
from the ballot or a bar on counting any votes cast for me, and (5) the information contained in this disclosure is, to the
best of my knowledge, true, accurate and complete.

i, ii Pitas A, 9/8/2021
Candf/ate Signature Date

Page 2


(9)
(a) If a candidate fails to timely file a campaign finance statement required under Subsection (3), the municipal clerk
or recorder shall inform the appropriate election official who:
(i) shall:
(A) if practicable, remove the candidate’s name from the ballot by blacking out the candidate’s name before the
ballots are delivered to voters; or
(B) if removing the candidate’s name from the ballot is not practicable, inform the voters by any practicable
method that the candidate has been disqualified and that votes cast for the candidate will not be counted; and
(ii) may not count any votes for that candidate.

(b) Notwithstanding Subsection (9)(a), a candidate who timely files each campaign finance statement required under
Subsection (3) is not disqualified if:

(i) the statement details accurately and completely the information required under Subsection (4), except for
inadvertent omissions or insignificant errors or inaccuracies; and
(ii) the omissions, errors, or inaccuracies are corrected in an amended report or in the next scheduled report.

(c) A candidate for municipal office who is disqualified under Subsection (9)(a) shall file with the municipal clerk or
recorder a complete and accurate campaign finance statement within 30 days after the day on which the candidate is
disqualified.

Name of Candidate Fields, Tyrone, B
Date of Report 9/8/2021
Page 5


ATTACHMENT A - CONTRIBUTIONS
Contribution means:
Any of the following when done for Political Purposes:
A. Agift, subscription, donation, loan, advance, transfer of funds, or deposit of money or anything of value given to a Candidate;
B. An express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement to make a gift, subscription, donation, forgivable or partially
forgivable loan, advance, transfer of funds, or deposit of money or anything of value to a Candidate;
C. Compensation paid by any person or Reporting Entity on behalf of the Candidate for personal services provided to the Candidate;
D. Aloan made by a Candidate to the Candidate's own campaign;
E. An in-kind contribution;
F. The Candidate's use or Expenditure of Personal Funds in furtherance of his own campaign.
Contribution does not include:
A. Non-professional volunteer services for which compensation is not customarily provided, such as door-to-door or telephonic
canvassing, provided by an individual on behalf of the Candidate if the services are in fact provided without compensation by the
Candidate or any other person;
B. Money lent to the candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business;
C. Goods or services provided for the benefit of a Candidate at less than fair market value that are not authorized by or coordinated
with the Candidate. For purposes of this Paragraph, “coordinated with” means the goods or services were provided: with the
Candidate's prior knowledge, if the Candidate does not object by agreement with the Candidate; in coordination with the Candidate; or
using official logos, slogans, and similar elements belonging to a Candidate.
1. Total of all contributions of $50 or less received from any individuals
since the last report $ 2
2. Total of all contributions of_more than $50, including in-kind a +6E
contributions $ oo
(List the date received, name and address of the contributor, the amount received and the
purpose of the contribution on Attachment A-1).
ATTACHMENT A-1
Date Mailing Address, City & Zip Amount of
Received Contribution
7/23/2021 |Women's Democratic Club of Utah P.O. Box 91184 Millcreek, UT 84109 | $ 70.00
Page 6


TOTAL] $ 70.00
(Attach additional sheets if necessary)
Name of Candidate Fields, Tyrone, B
Date of Report 9/8/2021
Page 7


ATTACHMENT B - EXPENDITURES OR OBLIGATIONS
Expenditure means:
Any of the following when done for Political Purposes:
A. Any disbursement from contributions, receipts, or from an account established by a campaign.
B. Apurchase, payment, donation, distribution, Loan, transfer of funds, advance, or gift of money or anything of value made by a
Candidate or Reporting Entity to a Person;
C. Anexpress, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement entered into by a Candidate or other Reporting Entity that
obligates him/it to make a purchase, payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, gift of money, transfer of funds, or
anything of value to a Person;
D. Payment by a Candidate or other Reporting Entity for goods or personal services;
E. Atransfer of funds by a Reporting Entity to another Reporting Entity.
F. ACandidate or Reporting Entity providing goods or services to or for the benefit of a Candidate or Issue at less than fair market
value.
G. The use or disbursement of Personal Funds in furtherance of a Candidate's own campaign.
Expenditure does not include:
A. Providing non-professional volunteer services for which compensation is not customarily provided, such as door-to-door or
telephonic canvassing, when compensation is in fact not provided; or
B. Money lent to a Candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business.
Date Person/Organization to Whom Mailing Address, City & Zip Purpose of
Received Disbursement Was Made Distribution
Pr
Bie oa eee eee TO
Page 8


a (317 TBF
(Attach additional sheets if necessary)
Name of Candidate Fields, Tyrone, B
Date of Report 9/8/2021
IN-KIND Contributions -A contribution to a Candidate or Reporting Entity of anything of value, other than money, that is accepted by
or coordinated with a Candidate or Reporting Entity.
ATTACHMENT C - IN-KIND AND OTHER NONMONETARY CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED
Date Name of Doner re
| macatea | “"Ymustbe provided) | __Contibution | Notes [Amount
Page 9


TOTAL IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS $0.00
(Attach additional sheets if necessary)
Page 10


Tyrone Fields
8/03/2021
INTERIM: Required by all candidates. Due by 5:00 PM on August 3rd, 2021, which is seven (7) days
before the date of the primary election, if a primary election is held.


7am CAMPAIGN FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORT
JORDAN 2021 MUNICIPAL ELECTION
UTAH Report of Contributions & Expenditures for Mayor and Council Members
Instructions: Only fill out the areas in blue and the checkbox(s). The rest of the form will auto-populate.
CANDIDATE INFORMATION
Last Name First Name Middle Name
Fields Tyrone B
Address City Zip Code
a West Jordan e40ed
Type of Campaign (check one)
! Mayor 3 At-Large Council Member ! District Council Member
REPORT PERIOD (Check Appropriate Box)
All days are calendar days
INTERIM: Required by all candidates. Due by 5:00 PM on August 3rd, 2021, which is seven (7) days
before the date of the primary election, if a primary election is held.
To include all contributions received and expenditures made, if any, up through five (5) days prior to the date this
Disclosure Report is due, excluding those previously reported.
| Ce FINAL: Only required for candidates eliminated in the Primary Election. Due by 5:00 PM on September
5 4 9th, 2021, which is no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the primary election, if any.
) >) To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign, excluding those previously
we py OM reported.
NG) S$ o This report confirms closure of the campaign account.
AJR oo AS
oreo 3 4 INTERIM: Required for all candidates who were successful in the Primary Election or who are otherwise
<— = ~ j= | proceeding to the municipal general election. Due by 5:00 PM on October 26, 2021, which is seven
mn" "RO 9 w (7) days before the date of the municipal general election, if any.
a < To include all contributions received and expenditures made, if any, through five (5) days prior to the date this
@ Disclosure Report is due, excluding those previously reported.
A FINAL: Required by all candidates who participated in the Municipal General Election. Due by 5:00 PM
on December 2nd, 2021, which is no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the municipal
To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign, excluding those previously
reported.
This report confirms closure of the campaign account.
CURRENT ELECTED OFFICIAL: Required by all elected officials for each calendar year in office. Due
no later than June 1st of each calendar year in elected office.
To include all contributions received and expenditures made since the immediately prior campaign financial
disclosure report was filled.
Mail or deliver this report to: Email this report to: For more information, contact:
West Jordan City Recorder's Office tangee.sloan@westiordan.utah.gov (801) 576-5000
8000 South Redwood Road
West Jordan, UT 84088
CANDIDATE CAMPAIGN FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Each blue area is required information. Other information will fill automatically from required Attachments A & B.
1. Balance carried forward from last report $ 06 0
Page 1


PROVISIONS OF WEST JORDAN MUNICIPAL CODE AND THE UTAH CODE ANNOTATED

Utah Code Annotated 10-3-208, in its entirety (select provision highlighted below), and West Jordan
Municipal Code 1-15-3 and 1-15-4

WEST JORDAN MUNICIPAL CODE 1-15-3: CAMPAIGN FUNDS

A. Candidates must establish as separate campaign account at a financial institution and may not deposit or co-mingle
and Contributions into any personal or business account.

B. Campaign Funds cannot be spent for a Candidate or Candidate’s family's personal use. If an expenditure is not
related to a campaign or officeholder’s duties but rather benefits the candidate or candidate's family, the expenditure is
prohibited.

C. Payments made from joint accounts are attributed to the party who signed the check unless the check is signed by all
parties on the check or a signed statement is provided that indicates the specific allocation to each person owning the
account. Funds that are not transferred by a check (e.g. cash, debit card, electronic transfer) are attributable to the
Candidate unless a signed statement is provided indicating a different allocation to each person owing the account.

D. Candidates may not use a campaign contribution if it is from an anonymous source and greater than $50. If a
Candidate receives an anonymous contribution greater than $50, the Candidate must gift the money to the state, county,
city, or a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization within 30 days of receiving the contribution.

WEST JORDAN MUNICIPAL CODE 1-15-4: DISCLOSURE OF CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS AND
EXPENDITURES

A. Disclosure Duty: Each candidate for elected municipal office shall report financial contributions and expenditures in
full compliance with this code, Utah code section 10-3-208, and title 20A, chapter 11, or their successor provisions. If the
City adopts stricter disclosure requirements than Utah Code the disclosure requirements of this Chapter shall apply.

B. Report Filing: The filings required by this section shall be made with the city clerk-recorder. The statements so filed
shall be public records

C. Campaign Finance Reports:

1. Campaign finance reports shall detail accurately and completely the information required concerning contributions
and expenditures.

2. Campaign finance reports shall identify the amount of each contribution, regardless of amount, and the name of the
contributor, if known. The monetary value of in-kind contributions should be estimated.

3. Campaign finance reports shall identify each expenditure, regardless of amount, and the name of the recipient of
the expenditure.

4. Campaign finance reports shall identify any anonymous donations. Campaign finance reports must include a
statement of the date of transfer to state, county, city, or a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization and identify the organization
funds were transferred to on any anonymous contributions greater than $50.00 as an Expenditure.

D. Current Elected Officials: Current elected officials must submit an updated campaign finance report no later than June
1st each year in office to disclose campaign contributions and expenditures made or received since the immediately
prior Reporting Period.

E. Campaign finance reports shall include a statement certifying that:

1. All contributions and expenditures not previously reported have been reported.

2. There are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in the campaign finance report.

3. The campaign finance report represents a good faith effort by the candidate to comply with West Jordan City
Ordinance and Utah State Law.

4. The information contained in the campaign finance report is, to the best of the Candidate or Reporting Entity’s
knowledge, true, accurate, and complete.

Page 3
