Pamela Bloom
12/2/2021
FINAL: Required by all Candidates who participated in the General
Election. Due by 5:00 p.m. on December 2"9, 2021, which is no later
than thirty (30) days after the date of the Municipal General Election.
To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire
campaign, excluding those previously reported.


7a CAMPAIGN FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORT
| Ret Ate 2021 MUNICIPAL ELECTION
uTan Report of Contributions & Expenditures for Mayor and Council Members
Instructions: Only fill out the areas in blue and the checkbox(s). The rest of the form will auto-populate.
Last Name First Name Middle Name
Bloom Pamela
City Zip Code
West Jordan 84081
Type of Campaign (check one)
I Mayor T™ At-Large Council Member I District Council Member
REPORT PERIOD (Check Appropriate Box)
All days are calendar days
INTERIM: Required by all candidates. Due by 5:00 PM on August 3rd, 2021, which is seven (7) days
before the date of the primary election, if a primary election is held.
To include all contributions received and expenditures made, if any, up through five (5) days prior to the date this
Disclosure Report is due, excluding those previously reported.
FINAL: Only required for candidates eliminated in the Primary Election. Due by 5:00 PM on September
9th, 2021, which is no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the primary election, if any.
To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign, excluding those previously
reported.
This report confirms closure of the campaign account.
INTERIM: Required for all candidates who were successful in the Primary Election or who are otherwise
Lu) procdeding to the municipal general election. Due by 5:00 PM on October 26, 2021, which is seven
O % (7) days before the date of the municipal general election, if any.
> va %,’ _ To incjude all contributions received and expenditures made, if any, through five (5) days prior to the date this
a (eo) § ee wisely ure Report is due, excluding those previously reported.
O
wer FI : Required by all candidates who participated in the Municipal General Election. Due by 5:00 PM
fa (£ ~° on December 2nd, 2021, which is no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the municipal
HH wW yr. . To incllide all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign, excluding those previously
tu © 7) —? reported.
oc é fa) This Sport confirms closure of the campaign account.
| a) =
oO CURRENT ELECTED OFFICIAL: Required by all elected officials for each calendar year in office. Due
no later than June 1st of each calendar year in elected office.
To include all contributions received and expenditures made since the immediately prior campaign financial
disclosure report was filled.
Mail or deliver this report to: Email this report to: For more information, contact:
West Jordan City Recorder's Office tangee.sloan@westjordan.utah.qov (801) 569-5116 e
8000 South Redwood Road
West Jordan, UT 84088
CANDIDATE CAMPAIGN FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Each blue area is required information. Other information will fill automatically from required Attachments A & B.
1. Balance carried forward from last report ESE ¥ 107.85.
(Zero if first report, or Line 6 from previous report)
2. Total contributions of $50 or less per donor during this reporting period S 50.00
Page 1


(Automatic entry from Attachment A, line 1)
3. Total contributions of more than $50 per donor during this reporting period $ 75.00
(Automatic entry from Attachment A, line 2)
4. Total contributions as of this report. $ 125.00
(Automatic calculation, line 2 plus line 3)
5. Total expenditures or obligations incurred during this reporting period. $ (207.23)
(Automatic entry from Attachment B)
6. Ending Balance for this reporting period $ 25.62
(Automatic calculation, Line 1 plus line 4, less line 5)
By my signature, | certify: (1) all contributions and expenditures not previously reported have been reported; (2) there are
no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in this disclosure; (3) the disclosure represents my good
faith effort to comply with West Jordan City Ordinances and Utah State Law; (4) | understand that pursuant to state law
failing to timely file a full and complete Campaign Financial Disclosure Report will result in the removal of my name from
the ballot or a bar on counting any votes cast for me, and (5) the information contained in this disclosure is, to the best of
my knowledae, pe: 4 curate and complete. ; . 7

: 27212001
Candidate Signature Date
PROVISIONS OF WEST JORDAN MUNICIPAL CODE AND THE UTAH CODE ANNOTATED
Utah Code Annotated 10-3-208, in its entirety (select provision highlighted below), and West Jordan
Municipal Code 1-15-3 and 1-15-4
WEST JORDAN MUNICIPAL CODE 1-15-3: CAMPAIGN FUNDS
A. Candidates must establish as separate campaign account at a financial institution and may not deposit or co-mingle
and Contributions into any personal or business account.
B. Campaign Funds cannot be spent for a Candidate or Candidate's family’s personal use. If an expenditure is not
related to a campaign or officeholder’s duties but rather benefits the candidate or candidate's family, the expenditure is
prohibited.
C. Payments made from joint accounts are attributed to the party who signed the check unless the check is signed by all
parties on the check or a signed statement is provided that indicates the specific allocation to each person owning the
account. Funds that are not transferred by a check (e.g. cash, debit card, electronic transfer) are attributable to the
Candidate unless a signed statement is provided indicating a different allocation to each person owing the account.
D. Candidates may not use a campaign contribution if it is from an anonymous source and greater than $50. If a
Candidate receives an anonvmous contribution areater than $50. the Candidate must aift the monev to the state. countv
WEST JORDAN MUNICIPAL CODE 1-15-4: DISCLOSURE OF CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS AND
A. Disclosure Duty: Each candidate for elected municipal office shall report financial contributions and expenditures in full
compliance with this code, Utah code section 10-3-208, and title 20A, chapter 11, or their successor provisions. If the City
adopts stricter disclosure requirements than Utah Code the disclosure requirements of this Chapter shall apply. = i
B. Report Filing: The filings required by this section shall be made with the city clerk-recorder. The statements so filed
shall be public records

Page 2


C. Campaign Finance Reports:

1. Campaign finance reports shall detail accurately and completely the information required concerning contributions
and expenditures.

2. Campaign finance reports shall identify the amount of each contribution, regardless of amount, and the name of the
contributor, if known. The monetary value of in-kind contributions should be estimated.

3. Campaign finance reports shall identify each expenditure, regardless of amount, and the name of the recipient of
the expenditure.

4. Campaign finance reports shall identify any anonymous donations. Campaign finance reports must include a
statement of the date of transfer to state, county, city, or a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization and identify the organization
funds were transferred to on any anonymous contributions greater than $50.00 as an Expenditure.

D. Current Elected Officials: Current elected officials must submit an updated campaign finance report no later than June
1st each year in office to disclose campaign contributions and expenditures made or received since the immediately prior
Reporting Period.

E. Campaign finance reports shall include a statement certifying that:

1. All contributions and expenditures not previously reported have been reported.

2. There are no bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in the campaign finance report.

3. The campaign finance report represents a good faith effort by the candidate to comply with West Jordan City
Ordinance and Utah State Law.

4. The information contained in the campaign finance report is, to the best of the Candidate or Reporting Entity's
knowledge, true, accurate, and complete.

F. City Recorder Notifications:

1. The City Recorder shall notify each candidate for municipal office upon declaration of candidacy and again 14 days
before each municipal election, of the provisions of this ordinance and Utah law that govern disclosure of contributions,
expenditures, and the penalties for failing to file a campaign finance report, including the statutory provisions that require
the removal of the candidate’s name from the ballot for failure to file required campaign finance reports.

2. The City Recorder shall notify all elected officials of their obligation to file an annual updated campaign finance
report by June 1st as required by this section and the penalties for failing to do so at least 14 days but no more than 21
days before such campaign finance report is due.

UTAH CODE ANNOTATED 10-3-208, sections 3 and 9
(3)
(a) Each candidate:
(i) shall deposit a contribution in a separate campaign account in a financial institution; and
(ii) may not deposit or mingle any campaign contributions received into a personal or business account.

(b) In a year in which a municipal primary is held, each candidate who will participate in the municipal primary shall file
a campaign finance statement with the municipal clerk or recorder no later than seven days before the day described in
Subsection 20A-1-201.5(2).

(c) Each candidate who is not eliminated at a municipal primary election shall file with the municipal clerk or recorder
a campaign finance statement:

(i) no later than seven days before the day on which the municipal general election is held; and
(ii) no later than 30 days after the day on which the municipal general election is held.

(d) Each candidate for municipal office who is eliminated at a municipal primary election shall file with the municipal

clerk or recorder a campaign finance statement within 30 days after the day on which the municipal primary election is
Page 3


(4) Each Campaign finance statement described in Subsection (3) shall:
(a) except as provided in Subsection (4)(b):
(i) report all of the candidate's itemized and total:

(A) contributions, including in-kind and other nonmonetary contributions, received up to and including five days
before the campaign finance statement is due, excluding a contribution previously reported; and

(B) expenditure made up to and including five days before the campaign finance statement is due, excluding an
expenditure previously reported; and

(ii) identify:
(A) for each contribution, the amount of the contribution and the name of the donor, if known; and
(B) for each expenditure, the amount of the expenditure and the name of the recipient of the expenditure; or
(b) report the total amount of all contributions and expenditures if the candidate receives $500 or less in contributions

and spends $500 or less on the candidate's campaign.
(5) Notwithstanding any provision of Title 63, Chapter 2, Government Records Access and Management Act, the
municipal Clerk or recorder shall:
(i) (A) posting an electronic copy or the contents of the statement on the municipality's website no later than seven
business days after the statement is filed; and
(B) verifying that the address of the municipality's website has been provided to the lieutenant governor in order to meet
the requirements of Subsection 20A-11-103(5A); or
(ii) submitting a copy of the statement to the lieutenant governor for posting on the website established by the lieutenant
governor under Section 20A-11-103 no later than two business days after the statement is filed.
(6) (a) If a candidate fails to file a campaign finance statement before the municipal general election by the deadline
(i) shall:
(A) if practicable, remove the candidate's name from the ballot by blacking out the candidate's name before the ballots
are delivered to voters.
(B) if removing the candidate's name from the ballot is not practicable, inform the voters by any practicable method that
(ii) may not count any votes for that candidate.
(9)

(a) If a candidate fails to timely file a campaign finance statement required under Subsection (3), the municipal clerk

or recorder shall inform the appropriate election official who:
(i) shall:
(A) if practicable, remove the candidate's name from the ballot by blacking out the candidate's name before the
ballots are delivered to voters; or
(B) if removing the candidate’s name from the ballot is not practicable, inform the voters by any practicable
method that the candidate has been disqualified and that votes cast for the candidate will not be counted; and
(ii) may not count any votes for that candidate.

(b) Notwithstanding Subsection (9)(a), a candidate who timely files each campaign finance statement required under
Subsection (3) is not disqualified if:

(i) the statement details accurately and completely the information required under Subsection (4), except for
inadvertent omissions or insignificant errors or inaccuracies; and
(ii) the omissions, errors, or inaccuracies are corrected in an amended report or in the next scheduled report.

(c) A candidate for municipal office who is disqualified under Subsection (9)(a) shall file with the municipal clerk or
recorder a complete and accurate campaign finance statement within 30 days after the day on which the candidate is
Name of Candidate Bloom, Pamela, L
Date of Report 42/2/2021
ATTACHMENT A - CONTRIBUTIONS
Contribution means:

Page 4


Any of the following when done for Political Purposes:
A. Agift, subscription, donation, loan, advance, transfer of funds, or deposit of money or anything of value given to a Candidate;
B. An express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement to make a gift, subscription, donation, forgivable or partially
forgivable loan, advance, transfer of funds, or deposit of money or anything of value to a Candidate;
C. Compensation paid by any person or Reporting Entity on behalf of the Candidate for personal services provided to the
Candidate;
D. A loan made by a Candidate to the Candidate's own campaign;
E. An in-kind contribution;
Contribution does not include: . :
A. Non-professional volunteer services for which compensation is not customarily provided, such as door-to-door or telephonic
canvassing, provided by an individual on behalf of the Candidate if the services are in fact provided without compensation by the
Candidate or any other person;
B. Money lent to the candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business;
C. Goods or services provided for the benefit of a Candidate at less than fair market value that are not authorized by or coordinated
with the Candidate. For purposes of this Paragraph, “coordinated with" means the goods or services were provided: with the
Candidate's prior knowledge, if the Candidate does not object by agreement with the Candidate; in coordination with the Candidate;
or using official logos, slogans, and similar elements belonging to a Candidate.
1. Total of all contributions of $50 or less received from any individuals
since the last report $ 50.00
2. Total of all contributions of more than $50, including in-kind
contributions $ 75.00
(List the date received, name and address of the contributor, the amount received and the
purpose of the contribution on Attachment A-1).
ATTACHMENT A-1
[Date | Contributor Mailing Address, City & Zip
10/29/2021 |Nancy Borgenicht SLC, UT $ 75.00
10/29/2021}H Zitting-Goeckeritz SLC, UT $ 50.00
Page 5


TOTAL] $ 125.00
(Attach additional sheets if necessary)
Name of Candidate Bloom, Pamela,
Date of Report 42/2/2021
Page 6


ATTACHMENT B - EXPENDITURES OR OBLIGATIONS
Expenditure means:
Any of the following when done for Political Purposes:
A. Any disbursement from contributions, receipts, or from an account established by a campaign.
B. Apurchase, payment, donation, distribution, Loan, transfer of funds, advance, or gift of money or anything of value made by a
Candidate or Reporting Entity to a Person;
C. Anexpress, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement entered into by a Candidate or other Reporting Entity that
obligates him/it to make a purchase, payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, gift of money, transfer of funds, or
anything of value to a Person;
D. Payment by a Candidate or other Reporting Entity for goods or personal services;
E. A transfer of funds by a Reporting Entity to another Reporting Entity.
F. A Candidate or Reporting Entity providing goods or services to or for the benefit of a Candidate or Issue at less than fair market
value.
G. The use or disbursement of Personal Funds in furtherance of a Candidate's own campaign.
Expenditure does not include:
A. Providing non-professional volunteer services for which compensation is not customarily provided, such as door-to-door or
telephonic canvassing, when compensation is in fact not provided; or
B. Money lent to a Candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business.
Person/Organization to Whom | Mailing Address, City & Zip
Received Disbursement Was Made Distribution
10/26/2021} Starbucks West Jordan Campaign Meeting $13.42
40/30/2021 |Dollar Tree West Jordan $1.07
10/30/2021 West Jordan $2.12
11/5/2021 Hustle 548 Market Street, PMB 19841,9 Texting | $25.00
11/5/2021] Olive Garden South Jordan Supplies/food $165.62
Page 7


TOTAL $207.23
(Attach additional sheets if necessary)
Name of Candidate Bloom, Pamela,
Date of Report 42/2/2021
IN-KIND Contributions -A contribution to a Candidate or Reporting Entity of anything of value, other than money, that is accepted by
or coordinated with a Candidate or Reporting Entity.
ATTACHMENT C - IN-KIND AND OTHER NONMONETARY CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED
Page 8


ES ——SS—E ee eS ee |S eee
TOTAL IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS $0.00
(Attach additional sheets if necessary)
Page 9


Pamela Bloom
10/26/2021
INTERIM: Required for all candidates who were successful in the Primary Election
or who are otherwise proceeding to the municipal general election. Due by 5:00
p.m. on October 26, 2021, which is seven (7) days before the date of the
municipal general election, if any.


yaa CAMPAIGN FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORT
JORDAN 2021 MUNICIPAL ELECTION
UTAH Report of Contributions & Expenditures for Mayor and Council Members
Instructions: Only fill out the areas in blue and the checkbox(s). The rest of the form will auto-populate.
CANDIDATE INFORMATION
to aco oa ce
Last Name First Name Middle Name
Bloom Pamela
City Zip Code
West Jordan 84081
Type of Campaign (check one)
!~ Mayor KeatLarge Council Member I District Council Member
REPORT PERIOD (Check Appropriate Box)
pS aA eh LA chet eld a ol ned eh SL Se ee
All days are calendar days
(INTERIM: Required by all candidates. Due by 5:00 PM on August 3rd, 2021, which is seven (7) days
before the date of the primary election, if a primary election is held.
To include all contributions received and expenditures made, if any, up through five (5) days prior to the date this
Disclosure Report is due, excluding those previously reported
(FINAL: Only required for candidates eliminated in the Primary Election. Due by 5:00 PM on September 9th,
2021, which is no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the primary election, if any.
To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign, excluding those previously
reported.
tu ) This report confirms closure of the campaign account
oO :
Ss iL { INTERIM: Required for all candidates who were successful in the Primary Election or who are otherwise
toe xs) proceeding to the municipal general election. Due by 5:00 PM on October 26, 2021, which is seven (7)
Q © =| >! days before the date of the municipal general election, if any.
Lu 2 ; €Q To include all contributions received and expenditures made, if any, through five (5) days prior to the date this Disclosure
= i 7) Report is due, excluding those previously reported
On _ 9 LJ} FINAL: Required by all candidates who participated in the Municipal General Election. Due by 5:00 PM on
Fe Oo = 4e December 2nd, 2021, which is no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the municipal general
& *~ ®° To include all contributions received and expenditures made during the entire campaign, excluding those previously
AS reported.
Oo This report confirms closure of the campaign account.
(J CURRENT ELECTED OFFICIAL: Required by all elected officials for each calendar year in office. Due no
later than June 1st of each calendar year in elected office.
To include all contributions received and expenditures made since the immediately prior campaign financial disclosure
report was filled.
Mail or deliver this report to: Email this report to: For more information, contact:
West Jordan City Recorder's Office tangee.sloan@westjordan.utah.gov (801) 569-5116
8000 South Redwood Road
West Jordan, UT 84088
CANDIDATE CAMPAIGN FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Each blue area is required information. Other information will fill automatically from required Attachments A & B.
1. Balance carried forward from last report $ 872.87
(Zero if first report, or Line 6 from previous report)
2. Total contributions of $50 or less per donor during this reporting period $ 205.00
Page 1
