Am CAMPAIGN FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REPORT
JORDAN 2021 - 2022 Fiscal Year
UTAH Report of Contributions & Expenditures for Mayor and Council Members
Instructions: Only fill out the areas in blue and the checkbox(s). The rest of the form will auto-populate.
CANDIDATE INFORMATION
Last Name First Name Middle Name
McConnehey Christopher
Address City Zip Code
West Jordan ee
Type of Campaign (check one)
[~ Mayor ‘~ At-Large Council Member District Council Member
REPORT PERIOD (Check Appropriate Box)
All days are calendar days
=
CURRENT ELECTED OFFICIAL: Required by all elected officials for each calendar year in office. Due no
later than June 1st of each calendar year in elected office.
To include all contributions received and expenditures made since the immediately prior campaign financial disclosure
report was filled.
Mail or deliver this report to: Email this report to: For more information, contact:
West Jordan City Recorder's Office tangee.sloan@westjordan.utah.gov (801) 569-5116
8000 South Redwood Road
West Jordan, UT 84088
CANDIDATE CAMPAIGN FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Each blue area is required information. Other information will fill automatically from required Attachments A & B.
1. Balance carried forward from last report $ 54.97
(Zero if first report, or Line 6 from previous report)
2. Total contributions of $50 or less per donor during this reporting period $ :
(Automatic entry from Attachment A, line 1)
3. Total contributions of more than $50 per donor during this reporting period $ -
(Automatic entry from Attachment A, line 2)
4. Total contributions as of this report. $ -
(Automatic calculation, line 2 plus line 3)
5. Total expenditures or obligations incurred during this reporting period. $ (55.51)
(Automatic entry from Attachment B)
6. Ending Balance for this reporting period $ (0.54)
(Automatic calculation, Line 1 plus line 4, less line 5)
By my signature, | certify: (1) all contributions and expenditures not previously reported have been reported; (2) there are no
bills or obligations outstanding and unpaid except as set forth in this disclosure; (3) the disclosure represents my good faith
effort to comply with West Jordan City Ordinances and Utah State Law; (4) | understand that pursuant to state law failing to
timely file a full and complete Campaign Financial Disclosure Report will result in the removal of my name from the ballot or a
bar on counting any votes cast for me, and (5) the information contained in this disclosure is, to the best of my knowledge, true,
accurate and complete. A
7
5/31/2022
Candidate Signature Date
Name of Candidate McConnehey Christesrer,
Date of Report 5/31/2022
Page 1


ATTACHMENT A - CONTRIBUTIONS
Contribution means:
Any of the following when done for Political Purposes:
A. Agift, subscription, donation, loan, advance, transfer of funds, or deposit of money or anything of value given to a Candidate;
B. An express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement to make a gift, subscription, donation, forgivable or partially forgivable
loan, advance, transfer of funds, or deposit of money or anything of value to a Candidate;
C. Compensation paid by any person or Reporting Entity on behalf of the Candidate for personal services provided to the Candidate;
D. Aloan made by a Candidate to the Candidate’s own campaign;
E. An in-kind contribution;
F. The Candidate’s use or Expenditure of Personal Funds in furtherance of his own campaign.
Contribution does not include:
A. Non-professional volunteer services for which compensation is not customarily provided, such as door-to-door or telephonic
canvassing, provided by an individual on behalf of the Candidate if the services are in fact provided without compensation by the
Candidate or any other person;
B. Money lent to the candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business;
C. Goods or services provided for the benefit of a Candidate at less than fair market value that are not authorized by or coordinated with
the Candidate. For purposes of this Paragraph, “coordinated with” means the goods or services were provided: with the
Candidate's prior knowledge, if the Candidate does not object by agreement with the Candidate; in coordination with the Candidate; or
using official logos, slogans, and similar elements belonging to a Candidate.
1. Total of all contributions of $50 or less received from any individuals since
the last report
2. Total of all contributions of more than $50, including in-kind contributions
(List the date received, name and address of the contributor, the amount received and the
purpose of the contribution on Attachment A-1).
ATTACHMENT A-1
Date Received Contributor Mailing Address, City & Zip
Contribution
TOTAL|$ -
(Attach additional sheets if necessary)
Name of Candidate McConnehey, Christopher,
Date of Report 5/31/2022
Page 2


ATTACHMENT B - EXPENDITURES OR OBLIGATIONS
Expenditure means:
Any of the following when done for Political Purposes:
A. Any disbursement from contributions, receipts, or from an account established by a campaign.
B. Apurchase, payment, donation, distribution, Loan, transfer of funds, advance, or gift of money or anything of value made by a
Candidate or Reporting Entity to a Person;
C. An express, legally enforceable contract, promise, or agreement entered into by a Candidate or other Reporting Entity that obligates
him/it to make a purchase, payment, donation, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, gift of money, transfer of funds, or anything of value to
a Person;
D. Payment by a Candidate or other Reporting Entity for goods or personal services;
E. A transfer of funds by a Reporting Entity to another Reporting Entity.
F. A Candidate or Reporting Entity providing goods or services to or for the benefit of a Candidate or Issue at less than fair market value.
G. The use or disbursement of Personal Funds in furtherance of a Candidate’s own campaign.
Expenditure does not include:
A. Providing non-professional volunteer services for which compensation is not customarily provided, such as door-to-door or telephonic
canvassing, when compensation is in fact not provided; or
B. Money lent to a Candidate by a financial institution in the ordinary course of business.
Date Received] Person/Organization to Whom Mailing Address, City & Zip | Eurposeot =| Amount |
Disbursement Was Made Distribution
6/15/2021|GoDadd Poe ste $19.17
8/10/2021 |GoDadd po Nee site $36.34
a I ( (
a a ( (
eee ee ee ee ee
a (O(n
A ( (
a (S(O
a BR  ( (
es ee ee Se
a  ( (
a Be  ( (
a (O(n
a I ( (
a ( (
(O(n
a Be (O(n
rs a eee Ss
a Be (S(O
a (O(n
a ( (
a C(O
TOTAL] «$55.51
(Attach additional sheets if necessary)
Name of Candidate McConnehey, Christopher,
Date of Report 5/31/2022
Page 3
