                            BUSINESS LICENSING AGREEMENT

        This Business Licensing Agreement (“Agreement”) is entered into by the Magna Metro
Township (“Magna”), a municipality incorporated under the laws of the State of Utah, and Bird
Rides, Inc. (“Bird Rides, Inc.”), a Delaware Corporation, as of the date executed by the Parties
(“Effective Date”). For the purposes of this Agreement, Magna and Bird Rides, Inc. will be referred
to individually as “Party” or “Parties” as the context may require.

                                           RECITALS

      A.     WHEREAS, in January 2017, Magna incorporated as a new form of municipal
government known as a metro township; and

        B.     WHEREAS, as a metro township, Utah Code Ann. § 10-2a-414(3) provides that
each Salt Lake County ordinance in effect on the date of Magna's incorporation will remain in
effect and function as part of the Magna Metro Township Code (the “MMC”) until “the metro
township council amends or repeals the ordinance;” and

      C.      WHEREAS, MMC § 5.02.010 of the MMC, requires all businesses operating
in Magna to obtain a business license before beginning operations; and

        D.      WHEREAS, in response to persistent violations of its business license requirements,
the Magna Metro Township Council adopted Ordinance #20-02-03, which directed its business
license staff and code enforcement officers to “use any and all legal means to ensure that business
owners comply with Magna’s business license requirements, including but not limited to denial of
business license applications for those businesses that begin operations before securing a business
license;” and

        E.      WHEREAS, Bird Rides, Inc. desires to obtains a business license from Magna to
operate a shared mobility device system consisting of motor-assisted scooters within Magna’s
jurisdictional boundaries; and

        F.      WHEREAS, among other provisions, Utah Code Ann. § 41-6a-1115.1 authorizes
Magna to regulate the operation of motor-assisted scooters within its jurisdiction, to authorize the
use of motor-assisted scooters on sidewalks, to designate locations where scooter-share operators
may not store shared scooters subject to certain requirements, and to indemnify Magna for certain
legal actions, provided that such regulations may not be unduly restrictive and must be consistent
with the regulation of bicycles and Title 41 of the Utah Code; and


                                    Business License Agreement
                                            Page 1 of 7
       G.      WHEREAS, Title 41 of the Utah Code imposes various requirements on the
operation and use of motor-assisted scooters, scooter-share operators, and scooter-share programs,
including but not limited to maintaining certain types of insurance coverage and limits; and

       H.      WHEREAS, MMC § 14.20.040(A) states that it is “unlawful to…place…upon any
sidewalk, curb ramp or highway…any…vehicle…or other obstruction; provided [that]
vehicles…may be placed temporarily in such manner…as not to impede or obstruct ordinary traffic,
but no such…vehicles…will be permitted to remain on such highways contrary to instructions
from the operations division of the public works department;” and

       I.    WHEREAS, the Parties desire to execute this Agreement to outline the process by
which Bird Rides, Inc. may obtain a business license to operate its scooter sharing system in
Magna.

                                          AGREEMENT

        1.      SCOPE: This Agreement and its terms apply to any proposed deployment of a
shared mobility device system within Magna's jurisdictional boundaries. Neither Bird Rides, Inc.
nor its officers, employees, agents, or affiliates will deploy a shared mobility system or operate
shared mobility devices in Magna or on public rights-of-way subject to Magna’s jurisdiction
in violation of this Agreement.

         2.     DEFINITIONS. For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions will
apply:

                a.     Shared Mobility Device: Bicycles and motor-assisted scooters operated by
         a shared mobility device system.

                 b.     Shared Mobility Device System: any transportation service that involves
         the commercial use of shared mobility devices by users, either concurrently or sequentially
         after one another.

         3.     BUSINESS LICENSE APPLICATION AND ADMINISTRATION:

                a.     Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (“MSD”): The Parties agree
         and understand that Magna contracts with the MSD to provide business license services,
         code enforcement, planning and zoning, and other municipal services, and that the MSD




                                     Business License Agreement
                                             Page 2 of 7
acts on behalf of and under the direction of Magna. As such, the MSD will serve as Magna's
agent and business license official in processing, regulating, and enforcing any business
license it may issue to Bird Rides, Inc. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term
“Magna” includes the MSD, although the MSD is not a party to this Agreement.

       b.       Application:

             i. Before beginning operation of any shared mobility system, Bird Rides, Inc.
                will file a complete business license application with the MSD, which will
                process the application as Magna's agent and pursuant to the MMC. To
                be considered complete, the application must include the information
                and documents required by MMC § 5.02.030. Bird Rides, Inc. will also
                pay to Magna all applicable business licensing fees as set forth in Chapter
                5.02 of the MMC and as further described in the Magna Consolidated Fee
                Schedule.

            ii. MMC Section 5.02.030(A)(9) requires applicants to submit their sales tax
                identification number from the Utah State Tax Commission, Bird Rides, Inc.
                to ensure that sales tax associated with licensed businesses in Magna are
                appropriately linked with Magna. If Bird Rides, Inc. will have a physical
                address in Magna, it will submit a TC-69B form (“Additional Business
                Locations for a Sales Tax Account”) to the Tax Commission listing its
                physical address in Magna. If, however, Bird Scooters, Inc. will not have a
                physical address in Magna, it will file with the Tax Commission a TC-62M
                Schedule J form by the end of each month to report its sales tax revenue
                from the preceding month and will list Magna as the point of sale.

        c.      Review of Application: Upon receipt of a complete application and all
       applicable fees, Magna will process the application pursuant to the timelines set
       forth in Title 5 of the MMC. The Parties understand and agree that nothing in this
       Agreement obligates Magna to approve the Application, that Magna must review
       the application to determine compliance with the criteria set forth in Chapter 5.02
       of the MMC, and that Magna will be required to deny an application if the
       conditions of MMC § 5.02.140 apply; namely, that Bird Rides, Inc. has:
            i. Been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude;

            ii. Obtained a license by fraud or deceit;

            iii. Failed to pay personal property taxes, Utah state sales taxes, or other
                 required fees;

                               Business License Agreement
                                       Page 3 of 7
             iv. Violated the laws of the state, the United States Government, Magna
                 ordinances, or the rules and regulations of any local government or Utah
                 state agency governing operation of the business holding the license or
                 permit; or

             v. An outstanding warrant for its arrest.

        d.      Terms and Conditions: If Magna approves a business license application, the
business license will incorporate and require compliance with the terms and conditions set
forth in Exhibit 1, the emergency management plan set forth in Exhibit 2, the
deployment/parking plan set forth in Exhibit 3, and the operations and maintenance plan
set forth in Exhibit 4, which are incorporated as part of this Agreement as if fully set forth
herein.

        e.     Renewals: Bird Rides, Inc. understands and agrees that it must renew any
business license it may receive annually pursuant to the requirements of Chapter 5.02 of the
MMC and that a business license will lapse if it is not renewed in a timely manner. Business
license renewals will be reviewed and processed in accordance with the applicable laws,
regulations, ordinances, and policies in effect at the time of the renewal. Nothing in this
Agreement, however, will prohibit Magna from modifying the terms and conditions in a
business license renewal if such modifications are needed to protect public safety, health,
and welfare or to ensure compliance with the terms of the business license or applicable
laws, regulations, ordinances, policies, and business licenses.

         f.      Compliance: Bird Rides, Inc. and its officers, employees, agents, and
affiliates will comply with the terms of the business license, including but not limited to the
terms and conditions set forth in Exhibit 1, the plans set forth in Exhibits 2 – 4, and all
applicable laws, regulations, ordinances, and rules applying to bicycles, including but not
limited to Title 5 and Chapters 11.32, 14.32, and 14.30 of the MMC.

        g.      Violations: Nothing in this Agreement supersedes, modifies, abrogates, or
changes in any way Magna’s authority to enforce and abate violations of the
MMC, including but not limited to Titles 5 and 12, and violations of the terms of business
license issued to Bird Rides, Inc., its officers, employees, agents, and affiliates. Chapter
5.07 of the MMC, or applicable successor ordinance, will govern any action to suspend or
revoke a business license issued to Bird Rides, Inc.

        h.       Mandatory Waiting Period: Bird Rides, Inc. further agrees and understands
that:

                              Business License Agreement
                                      Page 4 of 7
                   i. Operating a business, including but not limited to a shared mobility device
                      system, before securing a business license will qualify as mandatory
                      grounds for denial under MMC § 5.02.140(A)(4); and

                  ii. When a business license application is denied for the reasons set forth in
                      MMC § 5.02.140 or when a business license is suspended or revoked
                      pursuant to Chapter 5.07 of the MMC, Magna will impose a mandatory six-
                      month waiting period before a business license may be granted for the same
                      purpose pursuant to MMC §§ 5.02.180 and 5.07.060.

              i.    Appeals: Nothing in this paragraph 2 will waive or alter any rights to appeal
      that Bird Rides, Inc. may have, including but not limited to the appeal process set forth in
      Chapters 5.02 and 5.07 of the MMC, should Magna deny, suspend, or revoke a business
      license application or business license.

       4.     TERM: Provided Bird Rides, Inc. has an active business license that is in good
standing with Magna, this agreement shall remain in effect until 12/31/2023 and shall renew for
successive 12 month periods unless either party provides written notice to the other of its intention
not to renew at least ninety (90) days prior to the end of the then-current term, or unless otherwise
terminated by a loss of the active business license or material breach of the terms and conditions
of such business license or of this agreement.

    5.   REPRESENTATIONS REGARDING ETHICAL STANDARDS FOR
MAGNA’S OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES AND FORMER MAGNA’S OFFICERS AND
EMPLOYEES: Bird Rides, Inc. represents that it has not:

            a.      Provided an illegal gift or payoff to a Magna officer or employee or former
      Magna officer or employee, or their relative or business entity;

             b.     Retained any person to solicit or secure this contract upon an agreement or
      understanding for a commission, percentage, or brokerage or contingent fee, other than
      bona fide employees or bona fide commercial selling agencies for the purpose of securing
      business; and

              c.     Knowingly breached any of the ethical standards set forth in the Utah Public
      Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act, Title 16, Chapter 16 of the Utah Code, or any of the
      ethical standards set forth in Magna’s Ethics Code set forth in Chapter 2.07 of the MMC.

      6.      BUSINESS LOGISTICS PROVIDERS: The Parties acknowledge that Bird

                                    Business License Agreement
                                            Page 5 of 7
Rides, Inc. may utilize independent business logistics providers to facilitate local operations. Bird's
use of these logistics providers does not constitute a transfer or assignment of this Agreement, and Bird
Rides, Inc. remains responsible for all obligations and requirements under this Agreement.

        7.      NOTICES: All notices and other communications, required or permitted to be
given as part of this Agreement will be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given and
delivered as of the date the notice is sent, if delivered by mail or email to the following, which
Parties may change from time to time in writing. The point of contact for Bird Rides, Inc. will be
the business agent for Bird Rides, Inc., and must be authorized to receive service of process on
behalf of Bird Rides, Inc. and to receive any communication on behalf of Bird Rides, Inc. regarding
this Agreement any business license that Magna may issue pursuant to this Agreement.

                If to Magna Metro Township:

                        Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                        c/o Deborah Garner
                        Permitting and Licensing Supervisor
                        2001 S. State, #N 3-600
                        Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
                        dgarner@msd.utah.gov
                        (385) 468-6686

                        With Copy to:
                        Rori Andreason
                        via e-mail at
                        rori.andreason@magnacity.
                        ord

                If to Bird Rides, Inc.:

                        Austin Marshburn
                        550-552 W. 100 S.
                        Salt Lake City, Utah 84101
                        amarshburn@bird.co
                        (866) 205-2442

        8.      NO PARTNERSHIP: Nothing herein will be interpreted or intended to create a
partnership, joint venture, employment, agency, franchise or other form of agreement or
relationship.

        9.      APPLICABLE LAW AND VENUE: This Agreement will be construed in

                                      Business License Agreement
                                              Page 6 of 7
accordance with the laws of the State of Utah, and any actions between the Parties arising out of
the relationship contemplated by this Agreement will be brought in Salt Lake County, Utah. By
executing this Agreement Bird Rides, Inc. consents and agrees that it is subject to
Magna’s jurisdiction for the purposes of administering and enforcing this Agreement and any
business license that may be issued pursuant to this agreement.

        10.      ENTIRE AGREEMENT: This Agreement, including exhibits, constitutes the
entire agreement of the Parties and supersedes all prior oral or written agreements,
communications, understandings, representations, or discussions between the Parties involving the
issues that are the subject of this Agreement.

       11.      AMENDMENT: This Agreement may only be amended by a writing signed by
both Parties.

       12.    SEVERABILITY: If any provision of this Agreement or the application of any
provision of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or
unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.

       13.    WARRANTY OF AUTHORITY: The signers of this Agreement warrant that
they are duly authorized to execute this Agreement on behalf of the entity for which they are
signing.

       14.    COUNTERPARTS: This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts
each of which is an original of this Agreement and all of which, when taken together is the same
agreement.

        15.     RECITALS, HEADINGS AND, CAPTIONS: The recitals, headings, and
captions in this Agreement and its exhibits are inserted for convenience and identification only and
are in no way intended to describe, interpret, define, or limit the scope, extent, or intent of this
Agreement or any provision.

        16.     ASSIGNMENT: Bird Rides, Inc. will not transfer, assign, or delegate any of its
rights or obligations under this Agreement to another entity without the Metro Township’s prior
written approval, which approval will not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed.

        17.     LEGAL REVIEW: The Parties represent and agree that they had full opportunity
to review this Agreement and that they accept the terms hereof. The rule that such an agreement is
to be construed against its drafter does not apply to this Agreement.



                                    Business License Agreement
                                            Page 7 of 7
        18.    NO THIRD-PARTY BENEFICIARY: This Agreement is not intended to be a
third-party beneficiary contract for the benefit of any third parties.

        19.    GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY ACT: The Parties agree and understand that
Magna is a governmental entity entitled to the protections and safeguards of the Governmental
Immunity Act of Utah, Utah Code Section 63G-7-101 et. seq. and that Magna neither waives nor
relinquishes any applicable provision or protection of that Act.

Magna Metro Township                                    Bird Rides, Inc.

Signed By:                                              Signed By:


Signature:                                              Signature:
Print Name: Dan W. Peay                                 Print Name:
Title: Mayor                                            Title:
Date:                                                   Date:


ATTEST:



Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder


Approved by Metro Attorney


_____________________________
Paul Ashton, Attorney




                                 Business License Agreement
                                         Page 8 of 7
                                        EXHIBIT 1
                   BUSINESS LICENSE TERMS AND CONDITIONS

I.      USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY SUBJECT TO MAGNA’S JURISDICTION:

     1. Use of Shared Mobility Devices: Shared mobility devices may be operated on those
        public rights-of-way (e.g., streets, sidewalks, paths, and bike lanes) that are subject to
        Magna’s jurisdiction and are depicted in the attached “Magna Guide to E-Scooter
        Riding 2021,” which includes and depicts the following limitations:

            a. Shared mobility devices will not be operated on streets with speed limits of 30
               mph or more unless the street has a bike lake or a shoulder of at least 14 feet in
               width; and

            b. Shared mobility devices will not be operated on sidewalks that abut streets with
               speed limits of less than 30 mph if the road has a bike lane or a shoulder of at
               least 14 feet in width.

     2. Side of the Road: Shared Mobility Devices are to stay to the right of street lanes and to
        offer the right of way to bicycles in bike lanes and on bike paths.

     3. Age Requirement: Users of shared mobility devices will be 18 or older.

     4. Violations: Magna may fine users of shared mobility devices who violate these
        provisions consistent with applicable fines for cyclists.

     5. Free Standing Shared Mobility Device Deployment and Placement Restrictions. Any
        shared mobility devices that is not in use must be secured to a permitted dock rack or
        corral described or otherwise placed as required below:

            a. Shared mobility devices may not, at any time, for any reason, impede the free
               flow of pedestrian traffic.

                     i. Shared mobility devices may not be deployed, on a daily basis, in any of
                        the following locations:
                            1. Within ten (10) feet of any Utah Transit Authority (“UTA”) bus
                                stop sign;



                                               Exhibit 1
                      2. Within fifteen (15) feet of any traffic signal pole or pedestrian
                         crossing; or
                      3. Within twenty (20) feet of any existing dock, rack or corral used
                         exclusively for dock-based stand-up scooters, bikes, or ebikes.

              ii. Shared mobility devices may not be temporarily placed or left in the
                  following areas in such a way as to impede their normal operation or the
                  free flow of pedestrians and traffic:
                      1. Any multi-use path;
                      2. Any vehicle travel lane;
                      3. Any vehicle parking space;
                      4. Within ten (10) feet of any UTA bus stop;
                      5. Anywhere that impedes safe access to or egress from a UTA bus;
                      6. Within fifteen (15) feet of any building access or egress, including
                          driveways, or in any way that impedes building access or egress.
                      7. Within thirty (30) feet of any ADA ramp or access of any kind;
                      8. Anywhere that impedes the use of an existing permitted docking
                          system device dock, rack, or corral for a shared mobility device or
                          other shared vehicle; and
                      9. On private property, including but not limited to residential yards.

6. Photographs: Licensee shall require shared mobility device operators to take a photograph
   of their properly parked shared mobility device, or otherwise verify that the operator has
   properly parked the shared mobility devices, as part of the process for completing a shared
   mobility device transaction.

7. Relocations: Upon notification, Licensee has four hours to move shared mobility devices
   that have not been placed in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the
   business license. If not moved within four hours during business hours, defined as 9:00 am
   through 6:00 pm Monday through Friday, and with ten hours outside of business hours.
   Magna may impound improperly placed shared mobility devices at Licensee’s expense.

8. Deployment and Operations: Licensee shall conduct its deployment of shared mobility
   devices as follows and shall deploy such devices in groupings of not more than ten (10)
   shared mobility devices pursuant to the parking/deployment plan in Exhibit 3.

       a. Number of Shared Mobility Devices at Launch: Licensee will provide a minimum
          of 75 shared mobility devices at launch. Magna may approve the deployment of
          additional shared mobility devices in its sole discretion and may revoke this license



                                        Exhibit 1
          if Licensee does not deploy a minimum of 25 shared mobility devices within
          90 days of the date Magna issues the license.

       b. Maximum Number of Shared Mobility Devices:75.

       c. Changes in Number of Shared Mobility Devices: Licensee may request permission
          from Magna to deploy less than 25 shared mobility devices or more than 75 shared
          mobility devices pursuant to these terms and conditions. Magna may, in its sole
          discretion, grant or deny such requests in writing.

       d. Fleet Size: Magna will only count shared mobility devices that are operational and
          currently available for use in the public right-of-way in determining compliance
          with the minimum and maximum numbers set forth above. Magna will not count
          shared mobility devices that are inoperable, damaged, unsafe, or in maintenance
          towards the above minimum and maximum numbers. Magna may reduce the fleet
          size by three shared mobility devices per violation of these Terms and Conditions.

       e. Identifying Information: Each shared mobility device should include a unique
          identifier number in a prominent location and should be equipped with on-board
          GPS, capable of providing real-time location data.

       a. Safety: At a minimum, each shared mobility device should include brakes, reflectors,
           and lighting and shall comply with all applicable safety standards established by
           the Consumer Product Safety Commission, such as CPSC Public Law “107-319.”

       f. Hours of Operation: Shared mobility devices will be made available to rent from
          4:00 a.m. to midnight (local time).

       g. Speed Limit: 15 mph.

9. Damage to Shared Mobility Devices: Magna will not be responsible or liable for any
   damage to the shared mobility devices.

10. Removal and Relocation of Shared Mobility Devices:

       a. Licensee will take the following actions within 24 hours of each occurrence, unless
          Magna grants an extension in writing:




                                        Exhibit 1
               i. Remove inoperable, damaged, or unsafe shared mobility devices from the
                  public right-of-way;

              ii. Remove shared mobility devices that interfere with, impede, or obstruct
                  clear passage or accessibility on the public right-of-way; and

             iii. Recover shared mobility devices that are irretrievable by the general public
                  (e.g., shared mobility devices that are located in waterways or in restricted
                  or difficult to access areas).

       b. If Licensee learns of or receives notice of an issue of an unknown scale that affects
          the safe operation of five or more shared mobility devices, Licensee will remove
          the potentially affected vehicles from the public rights-of-way subject to
          Magna’s jurisdiction within 24 hours and notify Magna in writing until further
          investigations can be completed. Magna's must approve re-deployment of affected
          shared mobility devices.

       c. Licensee will remove all shared mobility devices and all related equipment within
          seven days of the date it ceases operations.

       d. Magna reserves the right to move, remove, or permanently dispose of shared
          mobility devices at the Licensee’s expense if the shared mobility devices pose a
          public safety risk, the Licensee fails to comply with the above timelines.

11. Compliance with Plans and Standards: Licensee will comply with the terms of the
    emergency management plan, deployment/parking plan, and the operations and
    maintenance plan, and with any applicable standard by Underwriters Laboratories or an
    equivalent safety rating agency.

12. Customer Service:

       a. Licensee should provide a customer service feature (hotline, webchat, app feature,
          etc.) to respond in real-time to customer concerns in English and Spanish during
          normal hours of operation (4:00 a.m. to midnight) regarding:

               i. Pricing information, cash access and discount member services;

              ii. Account troubleshooting and information on policies and terms and
                  conditions for use; and



                                         Exhibit 1
                 iii. Ways for customers to report unsafe operations.

III.   COMPLIANCE WITH ALL LAWS AND ORDINANCES:

          a. General: Bird Rides, Inc. and its officers, employees, agents, and affiliates will
             comply with the terms of the business license and all applicable laws, regulations,
             ordinances, and rules applying to bicycles, including but not limited to Title 5 and
             Chapters 11.32, 14.32, and 14.30 of the Magna Metro Township Code (“MMC”).

          b. Tax Commission Reports: If Bird Scooters, Inc. does not have a physical address
             in Magna, it will file with the Tax Commission a TC-62M Schedule J form by the
             end of each month to report its sales tax revenue from the preceding month and will
             list Magna as the point of sale.

IV.    CONTACT INFORMATION AND COORDINATION:

          a. Information on Shared Mobility Device: Licensee will provide easily visible
             contact information, including a toll-free phone number, e-mail address, and/or app
             feature on each shared mobility device for members of the public to make relocation
             requests and to report safety, maintenance, or other issues with shared mobility
             devices.

          b. Point of Contact: Licensee will provide Magna with the name, email address, and
             telephone number for a senior-level local staff person who can liaise with Magna
             at any time (24/7) to address operational and emergency issues.

V.     SAFETY EDUCATION: Bird Rides will provide materials, videos, signage to promote
       safe riding and educate riders on rider responsibilities and encourage safe and courteous
       riding and parking.

VI.    DATA SHARING: Bird Rides, Inc. will provide data to Magna when requested and as
       necessary to assist with monitoring program usage, including but not limited to:

          a. The location of docking stations;
          b. The number of shared mobility devices deployed;
          c. The status of each phase deployment;
          d. Data showing user demographics, trip duration, origin and destination, and whether
             users are repeat vs. first-time riders; and
          e. A monthly report of maintenance activities performed pursuant to the maintenance
             plan or any safety issues associated with the shared mobility devices and system.


                                           Exhibit 1
VII.   INDEMNIFICATION: Bird Rides, Inc. agrees to indemnify, save harmless, and defend
       Magna, its officers, employees, agents, and affiliates from all claims, liens, damages,
       demands, actions, costs, and charges, including attorney fees, arising out of negligent,
       reckless or intentional acts, errors or omissions of Bird Rides, Inc., its officers, employees,
       agents, and affiliates. If Magna’s tender of defense, based upon this indemnity
       provision, is rejected by Bird Rides, Inc., and Bird Rides, Inc. is later found by a court of
       competent jurisdiction to have been required to indemnify Magna, then in addition to
       any other remedies Magna may have, Bird Rides, Inc. shall pay Magna’s reasonable
       costs, expenses, and attorney fees incurred in proving such indemnification, defending
       itself, or enforcing this provision. Bird Rides, Inc. shall not be liable for claims,
       demands, costs, losses, or damages that arise out of Magna’s negligence or willful
       misconduct.

VIII. INSURANCE:

          a. Bird Rides, Inc. will maintain continuous coverage in the following amounts as an
             express condition of its business license and cancellation of any such insurance will
             result in the automatic suspension of a business license until Bird Rides, Inc.
             provides proof of coverage in the amounts and manner specified below.

                   i. Comprehensive commercial general liability insurance coverage with a
                      limit of no less than $1,000,000.00 per occurrence with a $5,000,000.00
                      general aggregate;

                  ii. Automobile insurance coverage with a limit of no less than $1,000,000.00
                      per occurrence with a $1,000,000.00 aggregate; and

                  iii. Umbrella or excess liability coverage with a limit of at least $5,000,000 per
                       each occurrence and $5,000,000 aggregate; and

                  iv. Where Bird Rides, Inc. employs persons within Magna, Workers’
                      Compensation coverage of no less than required by law.

          b. Bird Rids, Inc. will provide the Magna Recorder a current certificate of insurance,
             approved by the Magna Attorney, to be kept on file verifying the above continuing
             insurance coverage and naming Magna as an additional insured on a primary and
             non-contributory basis in comparison to all other insurance including Magna’s
             own policy or policies of insurance. The certificate shall contain a special
             endorsement to the effect that Magna will be notified at least thirty (30) days prior
             to cancellation or reduction in the limits.
                                              Exhibit 1
IX.   PAYMENT OF FEES AND COSTS: If Bird Rides, Inc. incurs fees and costs related to
      its business license, Magna will provide Bird Rides, Inc. with a written statement outlining
      any fees or costs incurred pursuant to these terms and conditions within thirty
      (30) days of the date such fees or costs are incurred. Bird Rides, Inc. will pay such fees and
      costs within thirty (30) days of the date of a written statement, unless Bird Rides, Inc.
      appeals such fees and costs pursuant to KMC § 2.82.040. Failure to pay duly invoiced fees
      and costs or to file a timely appeal of such fees and costs will result in the accrual of
      interest at the judgment rate established by Utah Code Ann. § 15-1-4, which Magna
      may collect pursuant to any lawful means.




                                            Exhibit 1
                                          EXHIBIT 2
                                        EMERGENCY PLAN

Utah’s terrain is vulnerable to direct heavy snow and winds, heavy rain and from time to time, earthquakes.
In addition to enhancing our batteries' safety - with a superior resistance against dust, water up to 30 feet,
and a sophisticated humidity sensor that communicates risk or distress to our servers - we have put in place
a rigorous response plan. Our emergency management plan, including removal and re-deployment as well
as our standard operating procedure for emergencies--with an example being our work during a riot with
the Charlotte DOT-- and natural disasters is below. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to ask.

Emergency Management Plan in case of severe weather (blizzards, floods, hurricanes)

Prepare & Plan. Our local Emergency Management Plan will be developed in conjunction with our
global operations team. This includes:

    ●   Business continuity plan containing all of the information related to managing an incident or
        crisis
    ●   Risk management plan with business impact analysis
    ●   Incident response plan, with plan activation, incident response team, communications and contact
        list, a recovery plan, a test, evaluate and update schedule

Staying Informed.
Bird has a dedicated team that monitors weather patterns across every municipality in which we operate.
This team works closely with our on-ground operations, providing as advanced notice as possible if a
fleet reduction is necessary prior to a severe local weather event.




Weather alerts and warnings issued by the national authorities and agencies will be actively monitored by
our global and regional operations teams and our operations adjusted accordingly. Additionally, we are a
global partner of OpenWeather, one of the leading digital weather information providers to ensure our
teams can implement rapid response to developing weather situations, keeping riders and the community
safe.

Responses to inclement weather may range from in-app notifications, push notifications, to email
warnings notifying users to take particular care or practice increased awareness of changing weather
conditions. For example, in extreme rain, we might issue a reminder to wear a raincoat and send
notification of pauses in services until extreme weather passes.

In the event of a weather emergency or natural disaster, including, hurricane strikes, high winds, heavy
snowfall, potential tornados, storm surges, flooding, and landslides, we will disable our services
immediately by remote locking our scooters and removing them from the in-app map.



                                                  Exhibit 2
Bird’s central Emergency Preparedness team monitors expected weather patterns across cities and notifies
local teams about significant events. During extreme weather warnings like snow, ice, hale, wind and
tornados, we notify our riders of increased risk and keep Birds indoors in anticipation of an oncoming
weather event. Our local operations team follows strict protocols based on local weather conditions.

Report & Engage

Our proactive approach to engaging the community extends to outreach to local emergency services
which will include briefing sessions for representatives from Magna Police, Ambulance Services, and
Fire Service.

Recovery & Response

 Weather Condition                                    Response

 Winds of 15 mph                                      We issue a warning for the local team and at 30
                                                      mph we pull our fleet from the streets.


 Heavy snow, hale or icy conditions                   We will not deploy or will pull our fleet from the
                                                      streets.


 Heat waves                                           Our local team monitors temperature and heat
                                                      absorption of concrete and asphalt. We issue
                                                      warnings at 115 degrees Fahrenheit and make
                                                      deployment determinations for the safety of our
                                                      riders.

 Torrential rain that causes flooding                 We rapidly remove all Birds from the streets,
                                                      beginning with the lowest areas in high impact
                                                      zones.




Community minded.
As a member of the local community we will report non e-scooter related events and support essential or
state emergency services in response to local incidents. In consultation with the Magna team and where
evaluated as safe to continue operations, we are committed to maintaining our e-scooter services for
essential service employees during response and recovery phases of emergency events such as the
COVID-19 pandemic and response.

Service Pause.
Should a decision be made by the Municipality to temporarily pause our operations. In consultation with
local emergency services, Bird’s team will remotely lock vehicles to prevent new rides from starting.
Users with rides in progress will be notified via in-app notification to complete their ride.




                                                Exhibit 2
Long Term Hibernation
When a long term or permanent end of services is required, recovery of vehicles from the operating area
will occur in close consultation with Magna. Bird vehicles will be removed, checked and stored securely
in hibernation at our local partner’s facility (located at 550-552 W. 100 S. Salt Lake City, Utah 84101).

Outreach
Julian Landen will be Bird’s designated point of contact for local emergency services authorities. Julian
can be reached at julian.landen@bird.co or 707.540.2042

Local Fleet Manager
   ● Gabriela Paz
   ● (951) 660-9625
   ● victoria_gpaz@yahoo.com

Other Emergencies
Bird stays up to date on large events and situations that may require temporary operations pauses such as
the recent protests and civil unrest seen across the United States. We closely monitor every event that
could disrupt our operations and we implement tailor-made emergency protocols based on local
circumstances. We develop operational plans in conjunction with municipal officials and local
stakeholders to meet fluctuations in demand and adequately staff events.

For example, in Charlotte when large protests occurred over several days in the Uptown area, Bird
worked closely with the City of Charlotte and Charlotte PD to act quickly to temporarily pause service
and remove our vehicles from the public right of way within 12 hours.


Bird’s Customer Service Channels
 ● Phone Number: 1-866-205-2442. Our staffed, toll-free customer service line provides support 24
    hours per day, 365 days a year. It also accommodates TTY relay services.
 ● Website: http://www.bird.co
 ● Email: hello@bird.co
 ● Twitter: @BirdRide
 ● Instagram: @Bird
 ● Online Form: http://www.bird.co/contact-us/
 ● Live Text-to-Chat: Available in the Bird app
 ● Community Mode: This in-app feature allows both riders and non-riders to report unsafe behavior,
    including irresponsible riding or improper parking, in real time.




                                                 Exhibit 2
                                         EXHIBIT 3
                               DEPLOYMENT/PARKING PLAN

After Magna has issued a business license pursuant to this Agreement, Bird will deploy 25 scooters at the
locations depicted in the below map within 90 days of the date of the date the business license is issued
pursuant to paragraph 8 of Exhibit 1, where its local partner (Fleet Manager) will deploy in the morning,
as well as rebalance as vehicles are used throughout the day. An additional 50 scooters will be added after
1-2 weeks of operations. Bird will modify these deployments, where at that time Bird can better
understand areas of high demand. Below is a screenshot of our deployment map, as well as a link to this
map.




Bird is committed to educating riders and the community about safety rules and regulations at the time of
sign-up and before every ride. Each Bird scooter has a permanent sticker listing safety and responsible
riding information. This reminds riders to obey all applicable vehicle code requirements, park in appropriate
locations, and strongly encourages use of helmets.

Bird will explicitly instruct riders on the proper way to park scooters (such as in the furniture zone, not
blocking driveways, entrances, access ramps, etc.) in the Bird app, on our website, and through outbound
communications (email, splash screens, push and in-app notifications). The Bird app features a
comprehensive, animated safety video that all Bird riders are required to watch and engage with. The video
is always accessible in the app as well as in the safety section of the Bird website.



                                                 Exhibit 3
As a continued effort of educating our users, Bird will ensure the above rules are provided to riders
through all our communication channels. Below please find some examples of Bird’s in-app education
messaging.




Staging
Bird stages scooters each morning in nests. Nests are virtual and dynamic, meaning our team can work with
the municipality to change and reposition them at any time to best meet the municpality’s needs.

Bird AI, our proprietary operations software, analyzes more than 50 rider demand signals and regulatory
requirements by geohash, enabling us to accurately determine where Birds should be deployed or
rebalanced throughout the day.

Our platform will automatically determine which locations to populate based on vehicle concentration, time
of day and specific requirements to ensure broad and equitable vehicle coverage across the service area.



                                                Exhibit 3
Bird’s local operations team actively monitors and redistributes our e-scooters across the service area during
operational hours. Our deployment and pickup times are designed to ensure the best availability of our
vehicles, guaranteeing, in every zone of the service area, our riders can find nearby scooters available during
the peak hours of demand and that the scooters are charged and ready-to-go.

We deploy local teams to patrol throughout the service area where ride and pedestrian density is greatest.
Local teams also respond to requests from the public for rebalancing. Using Zendesk, our customer service
representatives flag all such requests in our system before alerting local teams via the “Operator” mode of
the Bird app, allowing them to view the location of the issue and address it quickly and efficiently.

When our local team receives such an alert, a team member is dispatched to rebalance vehicles as needed.
Our local team is committed to keeping the sidewalks and roadways free from e-scooter clutter and
misparked or damaged vehicles.

Education
Once a parking strategy is finalized, Bird will educate users to help set expectations and ensure compliance.




In addition, we will instruct users to park scooters upright and stabilized with the kickstand. Bird will also
remind users that sidewalk parking shall be limited to allowed areas within the furnishing zone, and outside
the pedestrian path of travel.

Bird will be proactive to prevent and deter improper parking or dumping of scooters on private property or
other public property not owned or controlled by the municipality. Finally, Bird will educate users to make
sure scooters are not parked in or blocking:

   ●   Building/property entrances                            ●   Driveways


                                                  Exhibit 3
   ●   Loading zones                                              ●   Crosswalks
   ●   Accessibility (a.k.a. handicap or disability               ●   Street furnishings   (benches,   parking
       only) parking stalls                                           meters, etc.)]
   ●   Bus transit stops


Fleet Manager
Fleet Managers are responsible for rebalancing scooters on a daily basis. Across all markets, Bird commits
to, complies with, and exceeds SLAs regarding device relocation, removal and repair. Bird acknowledges
that the municipality will not be responsible for monitoring scooter parking or dumping on private property.
Bird shall act swiftly and exercise due diligence in responding to complaints of unauthorized fleet scooters
leaning against, blocking, dumped or left unattended on private property.

Geofencing
Our geofenced slow, no-ride, and no-parking zones can be easily adjusted, and the municipality’s
dedicated Account Manager will be able to quickly modify them if necessary. The Account Manager will
also schedule regular check-ins with the municipality based on an agreed upon schedule where any
adjustments can be made regarding geofenced areas, no-ride zones, no parking zones, etc.

Bird is able to govern e-scooter speed and in targeted areas by using geolimiting, geofencing and
location-based speed restrictions. We have multiple location-based speed strategies throughout campuses
and cities in which we operate, including varying speed zones in different areas of a campus and on
specific streets.

Bird’s geofencing technology can implement a range of location-based speed limits, from 1 mph to 15 mph,
on a temporary or more permanent basis. If a rider enters one of these zones, Bird alerts the rider via the
individual’s mobile phone that the vehicle’s speed is about to be slowly and safely reduced.




                                                      Exhibit 3
No-Ride Zones
Bird has a tremendous amount of experience operating on campuses and
can create permanent as well as temporary no-ride zones, concerts or
other events. Additional safeguards we can implement to ensure a
seamless experience, include:
  ● Event-specific parking locations.
  ● Team members to support rebalancing needs.
  ● In-app notifications.
  ● Educational emails prior to large events that inform riders of new
     rules and regulations.

Riders who enter a no-ride zone will receive notifications and messages educating them on proper event-
specific riding and parking procedures.




                                               Exhibit 3
                                        EXHIBIT 4
                      OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PLAN


In response to the effects of COVID-19 on the economy, Bird spent spring of 2020 working closely with
municipal officials and local stakeholders to determine how we could help restart impacted communities
around the world. With support and guidance from cities, entrepreneurs and small-business owners across
the U.S., we developed our Fleet Management Program. The program provides local economic opportunity
and bespoke block-by-block operational expertise, care and consideration.

We identify and recruit our Fleet Managers directly from the community, focusing on providing
opportunities to small, locally owned businesses and entrepreneurs impacted by COVID-19 as well as
Certified Women- or Minority-Owned Businesses. Before partnering with a prospective Fleet Manager, we
ensure they meet and exceed our standards for operational excellence using a rigorous vetting process and
the following criteria.

Candidates must:
    ● Be a trusted member of the local community with strong references.
    ● Prioritize long-term staffing arrangements with advancement opportunities and a real living
       wage as opposed to short-term, temporary work.
    ● Have existing local infrastructure (e.g., warehouse with ample space for charging and storage)
       certified for safe use by local workplace safety standards.
    ● Have experience managing logistics or operations, with a strong preference for shared
       micromobility.

As well as demonstrate commitment to:
    ● Providing the safest and most reliable service.
    ● Hiring locally.
    ● Developing or expanding any existing diversity and inclusivity policies in recruitment and
        retention.
    ● Using renewable energy to charge vehicles.
    ● Using zero-emission vehicles for deployment, rebalancing and collection.


When we execute a contract with a Fleet Manager, we commit to providing long-term support and
resources as well as initial guidance on operational setup and mandatory training.




                                               Exhibit 4
Maintenance

Maintenance Standards: Preventative maintenance is performed weekly. Additionally, our latest vehicles
are equipped with industry-leading self-diagnostics programmed for 400 different fault codes. When
triggered, the systems can take a vehicle off the road immediately if a safety issue is detected or create
information for later consumption by a technician. We keep a record of maintenance performed on
each vehicle and station, which is available upon request.

Field Vehicle Inspection: Our local operations team conducts frequent field inspections of our vehicles
to assess:

    ●   Drivetrain                                                ●    Contact Points
    ●   Tires                                                     ●    Front/Rear Brakes
    ●   Steering                                                  ●    Battery and motor
    ●   Brakes                                                    ●    Stickers and labels


Maintenance and Service Level Agreements (SLAs)
We establish SLAs in coordination with local authorities. The chart below provides an overview of our high
standards for removing and repairing damaged, deficient, unclean or unusable vehicles in all our markets.


 Concern         Standard                                                              Resolution Time

 Deficient/      Identified and removed (if necessary) through the methods             Made unavailable for rental
 Damaged         described below.                                                      immediately and removed
                                                                                       within 12 hours.

 Minor Field     Minor repairs that can be addressed in the field include: replacing   Repaired in the field within:
 Repair          a kickstand, tightening the handlebars, and fixing minor cosmetic     five minutes for kickstand;
                 damage.                                                               20 minutes for all others.
                 Minor repairs requiring removal include: changing a brake,
                 changing an accelerator, and replacing a brain.

 Major Repair    Major repairs include: changing tires, replacing the stem/neck,       At least one repair
                 replacing the lights, and fixing major cosmetic damage. If a          completed per hour.
                 vehicle cannot be repaired, it is recycled. All operations staff      Recycled within 72 hours.
                 complete recycling training during onboarding.


Customer Service: Bird is committed to making it as easy as possible for the community to provide
feedback regarding improperly parked devices, equipment issues, or other concerns. We have several
customer service channels (see below) and use Zendesk, a leading customer service software suite, to
receive, log and resolve customer complaints. Our customer service representatives process all complaints
submitted via our various channels, prioritizing those related to improperly parked devices to ensure we
repark them within two hours of


                                                    Exhibit 4
notification. We alert our local team via the “Operator” mode of the Bird app, allowing them to view the
location of the vehicle and address it quickly and efficiently.


Bird’s Customer Service Channels
 ● Phone Number: 1-866-205-2442. Our staffed, toll-free customer service line provides support 24
    hours per day, 365 days a year. It also accommodates TTY relay services.
 ● Website: http://www.bird.co
 ● Email: hello@bird.co
 ● Twitter: @BirdRide
 ● Instagram: @Bird
 ● Online Form: http://www.bird.co/contact-us/
 ● Live Text-to-Chat: Available in the Bird app
 ● Community Mode: This in-app feature allows both riders and non-riders to report unsafe behavior,
    including irresponsible riding or improper parking, in real time.




                                               Exhibit 4
