Magna City, Utah
RESOLUTION NO.: 2025-11
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL APPROVING AN INTERLOCAL
AGREEMENT BETWEEN MAGNA ON BEHALF OF MAGNA CTC AND UTAH STATE
UNIVERSITY
WHEREAS, Magna City is a municipality in accordance with Utah Code §§ 10-1-201.5 ; and
WHEREAS, the Magna City Council desires to enter into the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement,
attached hereto, marked Attachment "A," by and between Magna City ("City") on behalf of
Magna United Communities That Care Coalition ("Magna CTC") and Utah State University
("USU"). The purpose of this Agreement is to memorialize, clarify, define, and describe the
responsibilities of the Parties in the funding of services for Granite Community Youth Court
programming in Magna,
WHEREAS, the attached agreement, Attachment "A" was negotiated, duly noticed and
approved by the Magna City Council on August 26, 2025;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL as follows:
SECTION 1. The Magna City Council hereby approves the attached Interlocal Cooperation
Agreement, marked as Attachment “A” to this resolution, for the benefit of Magna City and Magna
CTC, and authorizes the Mayor to sign the same.
SECTION 2. This Resolution shall take effect on September 1, 2025, which date is set forth in the
agreement.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 26" day of August, 2025 by the Magna City Council, Magna City,
Utah. ?
BY
ERIC ,M
ATTEST
. APPROVED AS TO FORM: ,
pee BAUN ! Kuk Lb if—
CLERK/RECORDER
PAUL H. ASHTON
ATTORNEY
VOTE BY COUNCIL: AYE NAY
Mayor Barney voting x
Council Member Pierce voting —-———-Qlosernt-
Council Member Hull voting _¥
Council Member Sudbury voting _ X
Council Member Prokopis voting _ ¥

ATTACHMENT “A”

INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
between
MAGNA CITY
For its Magna United Communities That Care Coalition
and
UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY

This INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) is made and entered
as of the last date set forth on the signature page(s), whether signed in counterparts or otherwise,
with an effective date of September 1, 2025, by and between Magna City, a political subdivision
of the State of Utah (hereafter "Magna"), on behalf of the Magna United Communities That Care
Coalition (hereafter "Magna United CTC"), and Utah State University (hereafter “USU”), a local
education agency with offices at 920 W Levoy Dr, Taylorsville, UT 84123. Magna and USU may
each be referred to herein as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties”. The purpose of this
Agreement is to memorialize, clarify, define, and describe the responsibilities of the Parties in the
funding of services for Granite Community Youth Court programming in Magna.

RECITALS

WHEREAS, Magna is a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah; and

WHEREAS, Utah State University a local education agency; and

WHEREAS, the Parties are authorized by the Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act, §11-13-
101, et seq., U.C.A. (the Act), to enter into agreements with each other which will enable them to
make the most efficient use of their powers; and

WHEREAS, the Parties desire to enter in an agreement whereby Magna, a Subgrantee to a
federal grant, will provide funding so that USU may provide programming in Magna that will help
build community capacity to address youth incidences of violence through an integrated
community, public health, and public safety approach.

NOW THEREFORE, the Parties hereto agree as follows:

1. Magna Responsibilities:

1.1 Magna through Magna United CTC will work with the Salt Lake County Mayor's
Office of Homelessness & Criminal Justice Reform to execute the U.S. Department of Justice
Office of Justice Programs Community Based Violence Intervention and Prevention Initiative
grant deliverables and reporting requirements.

1.2 Magna through Magna United CTC will engage in a strategic planning process,
utilizing an outcomes-based assessment framework to create and develop a strategic violence
reduction plan, this includes developing and finalizing a community assessment. The community
assessment will include but is not limited to the assessment of risk and protective factors that
contribute to youth substance abuse and violence to determine priority focus areas for intervention
and service delivery.

1.3 Magna through Magna United CTC will work with USU to build community
capacity to address youth incidence of substance abuse and violence through an integrated
community, public health, and public safety approach.

1.4 Magna through Magna United CTC will host community board and workgroup
meetings at least monthly to review progress and collaborate on sharing information and barriers.

1.5 Magna through Magna United CTC will complete a minimum of one site visit per
year.

2. Utah State University Responsibilities:

2.1 USU, using its own discretion, will hire and supervise two part-time youth court
staff to oversee the preparation and execution of the Magna youth court location and work with
the Cyprus Network and Magna UPD. The youth court will work within the 84044 zip code of the
Magna City and will include Cyprus High School, Matheson Jr. High, Copper Hills Elementary,
Elk Run Elementary, Lake Ridge Elementary, Magna Elementary, and Pleasant Green Elementary.

2.1.1 The USU staff shall be:
2.1.1.1 Employees of USU
2.1.1.2 Trained in prevention and intervention sciences.
2.1.1.3 Trained in restorative justice and youth court principles.

2.1.1.4 Complete grant recommended training and continuous improvement
requirements.

2.2 A representative of USU will attend and participate in monthly community board
and workgroup meetings and work in collaboration with group projects and services.

2.3. One or both youth court staff will attend and participate in the quarterly Magna
Juvenile Intelligence meetings and SLCo Peer Courts meetings.

2.4 USU will oversee the preparation of and the execution of youth court hearings, this
includes but is not limited to processing new referrals, researching, and securing dispositions, and
training and managing staff, volunteers, and interns.

2.5 USU will share data and work in collaboration with the Utah Criminal Justice
Center (UCJC) which is contracted through the Safety & Success initiative to complete an
evaluation on youth court.

2.6 | USU will work with Magna United CTC to ensure federal grant measures are met
and all necessary data is provided.

2.6.1. Quarterly reporting requirements shall be submitted by the 10" of every
quarter to the Safety and Success Coordinator which includes but is not limited to
referral and offense numbers, date of services provided, service hours, number and
demographics of participants served, number and demographics of mentors,
outcomes, pre and post participant surveys, and descriptions on culturally specific
interventions and services.

2.6.2 Annual reporting requirements shall be submitted to the Safety and Success
Workgroup Coordinator which includes but is not limited to summaries of the
year’s efforts and outcomes.

2.7. USU will submit an invoice by the 10" of every month which includes:

2.7.1 Detailed expenditure report that details how funds were used to support
interventions and events related to the work, including, but not limited to costs of
supplies and materials, reimbursements and time spent by personnel and/or
contractors. The report must be sufficiently detailed such that Magna CTC and its
agents can be assured of their accuracy and to meet federal auditing requirements.

2.8  USU will complete determination of suitability and background check on each
employee and volunteer
2.8.1 The determination of suitability includes completing checks on the public
sex offender and child abuse websites/registries (Utah Department of Corrections,
National Sex Offender Public Website, and registry for each state the individual
presently or has lived, worked, or gone to school at any time during the past five
years), Criminal history registries and similar repositories of criminal history
records (current and previous names), (18 and older) Finger print search (if legally
unable to complete fingerprint then a name based search), Adult Close-Supervision
with Juveniles & Mandatory Reporting Requirements reviewed and signed, and
Confidentiality Notice reviewed and signed.
2.8.2 USU will assure that each employee or volunteer involved with services and
activities rendered under this Agreement will agree to and sign a copy of the DHHS
Provider Code of Conduct, Adult Close-Supervision with Juveniles & Mandatory
Reporting Requirements, and Confidentiality Notice; and that signed copies will be
maintained in the employee’s or volunteer’s file.
2.9 USU will submit to site visits as requested to demonstrate evidence-based
program implementation and contract compliance.
2.10 Asasubgrantee to a federal grant, USU shall adhere to the following:
2.8.1 Grant Terms, attached.
2.8.2 Conflicts of Interest
2.8.2.1 Subgrantee shall maintain written standards of conduct governing
conflicts of interest and governing actions of its employee engaged
in the selection, award, and administration of contracts and grants
under this Agreement.
2.8.2.2 Noemployee, officer, or agent of the subgrantee may participate in
the selection award, or administration of this Agreement, or any subaward or

subcontract, if they have a real or apparent conflict of interest, as further defined

and described in 2 CFR 200.318(c)(1).

2.8.2.3 The officers, employees, and agents of the subgrantee may neither
solicit nor accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value
from contractors or parties to subcontracts. However, subgrantee
may set standards for situations in which the financial interest is not
substantial, or the gift is an unsolicited item of nominal value.

2.8.2.4 Subgrantee’s standards of conduct must provide for disciplinary
actions to be applied for violations of such standards by officers,
employees, or agents of the subgrantee.

2.8.3 Monitoring

2.8.3.1 Magna CTC, Salt Lake County, the United States Department of
Justice, and any other authorized oversight body including but not
limited to the Government Accountability Office, will have the
right at any time and for any reason to monitor subgrantee’s use of
the grant funds under this Agreement, or any of subgrantee’s
subcontractors. Monitoring of subgrantee’s use of the grant funds
will be at the complete discretion of Magna CTC, Salt Lake
County, the United States Department of Justice or any other
authorized oversight body which will include but is not limited to
subgrantee’s fiscal operations and compliance with the terms,
conditions, and attachments of this Agreement. Monitoring
includes access to any and all records created and maintained
under this Agreement, and financial statements related to this
Agreement.

2.8.4 Record Keeping

2.8.4.1 Magna CTC, Salt Lake County, the United States Department of

Justice or any other authorized representatives, will have access to

and the right at any time during normal business hours to examine,
monitor, audit, excerpt, transcribe, and copy any records or files of
the subgrantee involving transactions relating to this Agreement,
including any agreements, contracts, purchase orders, or similar
transactions between subgrantee and any partner or subcontractor
related to this Agreement in any way. The subgrantee agrees to
permit any of the forgoing parties to reproduce by any means or
copy excerpts or transcriptions as reasonably needed and agrees to
cooperate with all such aspects.

2.8.4.2 The subgrantee agrees to provide Magna, Salt Lake County, the
United States Department of Justice or any other authorized
representative of either, with access to construction or other work
sites pertaining to work being completed under this Agreement.

2.8.4.3 Subgrantee shall keep detailed records of all expenditures
subgrantee or its subcontractors make of the grant funds. Records
must be sufficient to detail how the expenditure complies with this
Agreement and the Grant Terms.

2.8.4.4 Subgrantee agrees that the reporting and record keeping
requirements specified in this Agreement are a material element of
performance and that if, in the opinion of Magna, subgrantee’s
record keeping practices and/or reporting to Magna are not
conducted in a timely and satisfactory manner, Magna may
demand the return of grant funds.

2.8.4.5 Subgrantee shall retain all records and documents relevant in
anyway to this Agreement for at least eight (8) years after the close
of the award from which the subgrantee’s award was funded.

2.8.4.6 | In amanner substantially similar to subgrantee’s record keeping
obligations found in this Agreement, subgrantee shall contractually
require that all subcontractors document and track uses of the grant

funds, or determinations of eligibility for grant funds, and provide
all such documentation to Magna.

2.8.4.7 If the subgrantee fails to document any expenditure of grant funds
as provided in this Agreement, subgrantee shall repay to Magna all
grant funds spent on unsupported or undocumented expenditures.

2.8.4.8 Subgrantee shall fully cooperate with Magna, Salt Lake County,
the United States Department of Justice or any other authorized
federal entity, in any investigations or audits into the use of grant
funds.

2.8.5 Reporting and Certification

2.8.5.1 Subgrantee shall collaborate with Magna and Salt Lake County as
needed to submit quarterly reports required by the United States
Department of Justice including the information currently required
by the United States Department of Justice as shown on
Attachment C, which may be modified from time to time.

3. Consideration:

USU shall be reimbursed by Magna City in a total amount not to exceed $18,000 for costs
authorized by this Agreement. Funding for this Agreement comes from pass through funds from
the FY 2022 Department of Justice Community Based Violence Intervention and Prevention
Initiative (CVIPI).

4, Payment:
USU shall be reimbursed as detailed in Exhibit 1 — Payment Schedule.
Payment may be withheld due to lack of data submission.
5. Payment Schedule:
‘Wages
[statt 1 | wages ~ $9,000 | Benefits $0] Total $9,000]

OTAL COSTS FOR ALL STAFF
$18,000
6. General Provisions:

6.1 Term. This Agreement shall be effective on September 1, 2025, and shall terminate
on September 30, 2026.

6.2 Termination. This Agreement may be terminated by either Party without cause
upon thirty (30) days advance written notice to the other Party.

6.3 Amendment. This Agreement may be modified, but only by an instrument in
writing signed by the Parties hereto.

6.4 Representatives. The Parties designate the following representatives to administer
this Agreement and for the purpose of written notice:

MAGNA CITY: UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY:

Name Name

Email Email

Title Title Director

Division/Workplace n/a Division/Workplace

Address Magna City Address

8952 W Magna Main St South Salt Lake, UT 84115
Magna, UT 84044

6.5 Notices. Any notice required hereunder shall be deemed sufficient, if given in
writing to the Parties’ designated representatives.

6.6 Compliance with Applicable Laws. The Parties shall comply with all applicable
statues, laws, rules and regulations, licenses, certificates and authorizations of any governmental
body or authority in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement.

6.7 Interlocal Cooperation Act. In satisfaction of the requirements of the Interlocal
Act in connection with this Agreement, the Parties agree as follows: (a) the Agreement shall

be approved by each Party pursuant to §11- 13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act, (b) the Agreement
shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance with applicable law by a duly authorized
attorney in behalf of each Party, (c) a duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement
shall be filed immediately with the keeper of records of each Party, (d) except as otherwise
specifically provided herein, each Party shall be responsible for its own costs of any action
done pursuant to this Agreement, and for any financing of such costs pursuant to Section I1-
13-209 of the Interlocal Act, and (e) no separate legal entity is created by the terms of this
Agreement.

6.8 Laws of Utah. It is understood and agreed that this Agreement will be governed by
the laws of the state of Utah both as to interpretation and performance. The venue for any and all
legal actions arising hereunder shall lie in the District Court in and for the County of Salt Lake,
State of Utah.

6.9 Governmental Immunity, Insurance, and Indemnification. The Parties are
governmental entities as defined by the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah (“GIA”), Utah Code
Ann. §§ 63G-7-101 to -904. Consistent with the terms of the GIA, and as provided herein, it is
mutually agreed that each Party is responsible and liable for its own wrongful or negligent acts
which are committed by it or by its agents, officials, or employees. Neither Party waives any
defenses otherwise available under the GIA and all other appliable law nor does any party waive
any limits of liability currently provided by the GIA. Both Parties maintain all privileges and
immunities, and other rights granted by the GIA and all other applicable law. To the extent, and
the event of, the GIA being held by a Court to not be applicable, each party shall maintain insurance
or self-insurance coverage sufficient to meet the obligations and liabilities arising from this
Agreement and each Party agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the other Party, against any and
all claims, losses, damages, liabilities, penalties, punitive damages, expenses, reasonable legal fees
and costs of any kind or amount whatsoever, which result from or arise out of any act or omission
of the indemnifying party that occurs in connection with this Agreement. This indemnification will
survive the termination of this Agreement.

6.10 Third Parties. Nothing herein expressed or implied is intended or shall be
construed to confer upon or give any person, board, or entity, other than the Parties hereto and
their successors and assigns, any right or remedies by reason of this Agreement, as a third-party

beneficiary or otherwise.

6.11 Relationship of the Parties. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall constitute
or be construed to create any partnership or agency relationship between the Parties, or to create
any new entity.

6.12 Entire Agreement. This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the
Parties and no statements, promises, or inducements not contained in this Agreement shall be
binding or valid.

6.13. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is found to be illegal or
unenforceable in a judicial proceeding, such provision will be deemed inoperative and
severable, and, provided that the fundamental terms and conditions of this Agreement remain
legal and enforceable, the remainder of this Agreement shall remain operative and binding on
the Parties.

6.14. Anti-Waiver Provision. This Agreement may not be enlarged, modified, or
altered, except by written amendment, signed by the Parties. Recipient understands that only the
Salt Lake County Mayor or designee by executive order (available on the County’s website) can
execute an amendment to this Agreement. The failure of County to insist, in any one or more
instances, upon a strict performance of any term or provision of this Agreement shall not be
construed as a waiver or relinquishment thereof, but the same shall continue and remain in full
force and effect, unless expressly waived in a written and signed amendment.

6.15 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, and all so
executed will constitute one agreement binding on all the Parties, it being understood that all
Parties need not sign the same counterpart. Further, executed copies of this Agreement
delivered by facsimile or email will be deemed an original signed copy of this Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement on the day and year
first written above.

a
Approved as to Form
BY

Date: September 9, 2025 f I
City Attorney
MAGNA UNITED COMMUNITIES THAT CARE COALITION
By
Dates
Attest:
Clerk/Recorder
UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY
By: —
Approved as to Form: Printed Name:
Title:
—— Daten
