Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4F C9-816D-0A18A1918C72
MAGNA CITY, UTAH
Ordinance No. 2025-0-04 Date: April 22, 2025
AN ORDINANCE OF MAGNA CITY COUNCIL AMENDING TITLE 8 OF
THE MAGNA CITY MUNICIPAL CODE, ALJ PROCESS

WHEREAS, Magna City ("Magna City") adopted each county ordinance in effect at the

time of its incorporation as a Metro Township pursuant to Utah Code Ann. Subsection 10-2a-

414(3)(2023), which ordinance continued in force upon its conversion to a City, pursuant

to Utah Code Ann. § 10-1-201.5(6)(2024), and Magna City has authority to amend or repeal

such ordinance when it determines it is necessary; and

WHEREAS, Magna City is a municipality and has authority to regulate and enforce its

code pursuant to Utah Code; and

WHEREAS, Magna City has authority to adopt ordinances and land use controls necessary

for the use and development of land within its municipal boundaries in accordance with the

Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, (“MLUDMA”), Title 10,

Section 9a, Utah Code, to protect public health, safety, and welfare; and

WHEREAS, the Magna City Council deems it necessary to amend sections of Title 8 of

the Magna City Municipal Code re: the ALJ Process in order to ensure compliance with

State Statute, encourage conformity with the Magna City General Plan, promote ease of

use for residents and staff, and preserve the unique character of the Magna City community;

and for the protection and preservation of the public health, safety and general welfare.

BE IT ORDAINED BY MAGNA CITY COUNCIL as follows:

1. The attached Sections of Title 8 are hereby repealed and replaced in their entirety
as set forth in the attached Attachment 1, all other non-amended sections of Title 8
to remain the same until such time as dealt with by Magna City.

Px, Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of these
Ordinances is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion(s) of these Ordinances,
or specific application of these Ordinances, shall be severed from the remainder,
which shall continue in full force and effect.

3. Implementation. Magna City staff are instructed to take administrative steps needed
to incorporate the amended sections, as set forth in Attachment 1, for publication in Municode,
including but not limited to making any formatting, grammatical, or other non-
substantive changes to the Ordinances that may be needed.

4. Posting and Effective Date. After Magna City staff have prepared Attachment
1 for publication to Municode, the staff shall post the attached summary pursuant
to Utah Code § 10-3-711(1)(b); and publish Attachment 1 to Municode. This
ordinance will become effective as of the date the summary is posted and
Attachment 1 is published to Municode.

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
PASSED AND ADOPTED this 22" day of April, 2025.
Signed by:
IOSBathiey, Mayor
ATTEST:
Signed by:
ane Bau’ City Recorder
Voting
Mayor Barney voting _ Aye
Council Member Hull voting _ Aye
Council Member Pierce voting _ Absent.
Council Member Prokopis voting Aye
Council Member Sudbury voting Aye
Date ordinance summary was posted on the Utah Public Notice Website:
CecDoer 11,2015
Effective date of ordinance: W al V\_ 22,2025

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4F C9-816D-0A18A1918C72
SUMMARY OF MAGNA CITY ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-04
On the 22nd day of April, 2025 the Magna City Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-
0-04 that adopts amended sections of Titles 8 (Animals) of the Magna City Municipal Code
(“MCMC”) and repeals and replaces in their entirety the prior versions of said sections
of Title 8.
MAGNA CITY COUNCIL
Signed by:
[ex Davy
rie G’Batney, Mayor
ATTEST
Signed by:
[rors Phun
ian BaGnYCity Recorder
APPROVED L4ip—
CITYATTORNEY  —™
Voting
Mayor Barney voting Aye
Council Member Hull voting Aye
Council Member Pierce voting ansent —
Council Member Prokopis voting Aye
Council Member Sudbury voting Aye
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-0-04 is available in the office of the
Magna City Clerk, 860 Lavoy Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah.

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
ATTACHMENT 1

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4F C9-816D-0A18A1918C72
TITLE 8 ANIMALS
Chapter 8.01 DEFINITI
Chapter 8.02 ADMINISTRATION
: MMER D :

r 8.04 ANIMAL | AL
Chapter 8.05 RABIES CONTROL
Chapter 8.06S ANIMAL BITES AND NUISANCES
Chapter 8.07 IMPOUNDMENT
Chapter 8.08 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS

rg. | D R ANDE
Chapter 8.10 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
Chapter 8.11 NOTICE OF VIOLATION AND STIPULATION PROCEDURES
Chapter 8.12 DOMESTIC FOWL
Chapter 8.13 FERAL CATS
Chapter 8.14 DOG BREEDERS

Docusign Envelope 1D: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
CHAPTER 8.01 DEFINITIONS

8.01.010 Definitions
As used in Chapter 8 the following terms shall have the definitions provided herein.
"Abandonment" means placing an animal in an environment where the animal is separated
from basic needs such as food, water, shelter or necessary medical attention, for a period
longer than twenty-four hours or if an animal is found to be an Animal at Large 3 or more
times in any 7-day period. Abandonment includes failure to reclaim an animal seventy-two
hours beyond the time agreed upon with a kennel, grooming service or similar facility.
Abandonment includes failure to reclaim a pet from an animal shelter beyond seventy-two
hours of notification or refusal to sign relinquishment authorization.
"Adequate space” means that when a dog is fixed to a tether, fastener, chain, tie, or other
restraint, the dog is able to easily stand up, sit down, turn around, lay down, and make all
normal bodily movements and interact safely with the environment and with other animals
that may be in the immediate area.
"Allow," for the purposes of this Title 8, shall include human conduct that is intentional,
deliberate, careless, inadvertent or negligent in relation to the actions of an animal.
"Animal" means every nonhuman species, both domestic and wild.
"Animal at large.”

A. "Animal at large" means any animal, whether licensed or unlicensed, which is not
under physical restraint imposed by the owner or handler (i.e., caged, enclosed or
on a leash), or is not capable of being immediately controlled by the owner or
handler when off the premises of the owner. Cats are excluded from this definition.

B. An animalis considered an "animal at large," regardless of whether the animalis
under physical restraint or capable of being immediately controlled, unless:

1. The owner or handler has in his or her possession instruments necessary to
clean up after the animal; and

2. The owner or handler does remove the animal's feces to a proper trash
receptacle.

C. An animalis considered an "animal at large," regardless of whether the animal is
under physical restraint or capable of being immediately controlled, if the animal is

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
not vaccinated and licensed in accord with federal, state and local laws and is
wearing or displaying all tags required by law to evidence such licensing and
vaccination. The owner or handler must be in possession of instruments necessary
to physically restrain the animal.

D. Adogis not an “animal at large" in areas not specifically prohibited or restricted by
Section 8.04.170 so long as the owner or handler is capable of being in immediate
control and has the means to physically control the animal.

"Animal boarding establishment" means any commercial establishment that takes in
animals for the purpose of providing temporary shelter or care and charges a fee for such
service.

"Animal control officer" means any person designated by the state of Utah as a peace
officer as defined in Utah Code § 53-13-101, (1953) et seq., as amended; or individual
otherwise designated by Magna City mtnicipatgevernmentor by Salt Lake County;through
the-divisior-of-animatserviees; as an officer who is authorized by law to perform the duties
specified by this Title 8.

"Animal exhibition" means any display of, event or contest involving animals.

"Animal grooming parlor" means any commercial establishment maintained for the
purpose of offering cosmetological services for animals for a fee.

"Animal shelter" means any facility owned, operated or maintained for the care and
custody of seized, stray, homeless, quarantined, abandoned, unwanted animals or animals
held for the purpose of protective custody under the authority of this Title 8 or state law.
“Animal under physical restraint."

A. "Animal under physical restraint" means any animal under the physical control of its
owner or person over the age of twelve years having charge, care, custody or control
of the animal, by the means of a leash, tether, or other physical control device or
enclosure. A leash or tether shall not exceed eight feet in length when in close
proximity to animals or people. Animals confined in or upon a motorized vehicle
shall be considered physically restrained; provided, that the animal's body parts
cannot extend beyond two inches from the vehicle when the vehicle is not in motion
and not more than the length of the distance from the animal's shoulders to the tip
of its muzzle when the vehicle is in motion. Animals upon the real property of their
owner, or upon the property of another (with prior written permission of the property
owner) and under direct adult supervision shall be considered under physical
restraint.

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
B. "An animal capable of being immediately controlled" shall mean an animal within

the sight of the owner or handler and which responds to command of said owner or
handler and that is subject to being immediately placed under physical restraint by
said owner or handler. An animal is subject to being immediately placed under
physical restraint only if the owner or handler is in possession of a leash and the
animalis wearing a collar, harness or similar device to which said leash may be
attached.

"Bite" means an actual puncture, tear or abrasion of the skin, inflicted by the teeth of an

animal.

"Cat" means any feline of the domesticated types more than four months of age. Any feline

of the domesticated types less than four months of age is a kitten.

"Cattery" means an establishment where cats are boarded, bred, bought, sold or groomed

for a fee.

“Commercial animal establishment" means any pet shop, animal grooming parlor, guard

dog location or exhibition, riding school or stable, zoological park, circus, rodeo, animal

exhibition, cattery, kennel or animal breeding or housing facility.

“Coop" means a free-standing building for the feeding, watering and sheltering of fowl.

“Dangerous animal" means any animal, including invertebrate species, that would be a

hazard to public health and safety should the animal escape. "Dangerous animal" includes

those animals meeting the definition of "vicious animal" as set forth in this title and

constrictor snakes in excess of ten feet in length.

"Director" means the director of the Salt Lake County division of animal services or other

individual designated by Magna City.

"Division" means the Salt Lake County division of animal services.

"Dog" means any canis familiaris more than four months of age. Any canis familiaris less

than four months of age is a puppy.

"Dog breeder" means any person within unincorporated Salt Lake County who, having the

care of or responsibility for one or more female dogs, permits the whelping of litter of dogs.

A veterinarian providing services within a veterinarian-client-patient relationship, and has

no ownership interest in the animals, is not included in this definition.

“Domesticated animals" means animals accustomed to living in or about the habitation of

man, including but not limited to cats, dogs, ferrets and livestock. "Domesticated animal,"

however, shall not include "exotic animals."

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72

"Domestic fowl" means any of a variety of ducks or adult female domesticated chickens
and baby ducks or chickens of either gender, not over 20 weeks in age, but not to include
adult male chickens or other bird species, unless otherwise permitted by law.
"Enclosure."

A. For fowl, "Enclosure" means a fenced or sturdy wire pen containing a coop that

allows domestic fowl access to the coop while remaining in an enclosed pen.
B. For all other animals, "Enclosure" means any structure of sufficient strength and
height to prevent an animal from escaping its primary confines.

"Euthanasia" means the humane destruction of an animal accomplished by a method
approved by the most recent report of the American Veterinary Medical Association Panel
on Euthanasia that results in unconsciousness and immediate death, or by a method that
causes painless loss of consciousness and death during such loss of consciousness.
"Exotic animal" means any animal whose native habitat is not indigenous to the continental
United States, excluding Alaska, except tropical fish, fur-bearing animals commercially
bred for the furrier trade, and birds. Constrictor snakes in excess of ten feet in length are
defined as dangerous animals.
"Extreme weather conditions" means weather conditions of extreme heat or cold that are
likely to endanger an animal confined in such temperatures.
"Feral Cat" means any free roaming, homeless, wild or untamed cat.
"Feral Cat Colony” means a group of free roaming, homeless, wild or untamed cats living
together in an area.
"Ferret" means any domestic Mustela putorius (except the black footed ferret) more than
three months of age. Any Mustela putorius less than three months of age is a kit.
“Found” means to be personally observed by an animal cont rol officer or to be
documented by photograph or video recording.
"Guard dog” means any dog that will detect and warn its handler that an intruder is present
in or near an area that is being secured and will attack a human pursuant to training or its
handler's command.
"Handler" is any person who has physical control, i.e., the charge, care, control, custody or
possession, or responsibility for the same, of an animal at any given time. An "owner" shall
be presumed to have ultimate responsibility for the physical control of the animal and may
divest himself/herself of such responsibility only by the transferring of, or giving permission

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
for, actual physical control of the animal to a legally responsible adult person of age
eighteen or more. Whenever such other person of the requisite age has responsibility for
physical control of the animal, such person shall be the "handler." At all other times, the
"owner" shall be presumed to be the "handler."
"Holding facility" means any pet shop, kennel, cattery, animal grooming parlor, riding
school, stable, animal shelter, veterinary hospital, or any other such facility used for
holding animals.
"Kennel" means a commercial establishment having three or more dogs for the purpose of
boarding, breeding, buying, grooming, letting for hire, training for fee, or selling such dogs.
“Leash" or "lead" means any chain, rope, or device of sufficient strength used to restrain an
animal.
"Livestock" means animals kept for husbandry, including but not limited to fowl, ratites,
horses, mules, burros, asses, cattle, sheep, goats, llamas, swine and other farm, hoofed
domesticated animals, excluding dogs, cats and ferrets.
"Nuisance."

A. "Nuisance" means any animal or animals that unreasonably annoy humans,
endanger the life or health of other animals or humans, or substantially interfere
with humans; other than their owner's, enjoyment of life or property.

B. The term "public nuisance animal" shall mean and include, but is not limited to, any
animal that:

| 1. Is repeatedty found at large;
2. Damages the property of anyone other than its owner;
| 3. RepeatedtymMolests or intimidates neighbors, pedestrians or passersby by
lunging at fences, chasing, or acting aggressively towards such person(s), unless
provoked by such person(s);

4. Chases vehicles;

5. Makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited to, continued and repeated
howling, barking, whining, or other noise which causes unreasonable
annoyance, disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or others;

6. Causes fouling of the air by odors and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance
or discomfort to neighbors or others;

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72

7. Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings where the animal is
kept or harbored;

8. Defecates on any public sidewalk, park or building, or on any private property
without the consent of the owner of such private property, unless the handler of
such animal shall have in his or her possession the instruments to clean up after
his or her animal and removes the animal's feces to a proper trash receptacle;

9. !s offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare by virtue of the
number and/or types of animals kept or harbored;

10. Attacks people or other animals, whether such attack results in actual physical
harm to the person or animal to whom or at which the attack is directed;

11. Has been found by a court, any other commission or board lawfully established
under Utah law, or hearing officer of Magna City, to be a public nuisance under
any other provision(s) of Utah law, common law, or based on the circumstances
ora combination of circumstances described in this section;

12. Cannot be restrained by normal restraints, such as standard leashes, standard
chains or muzzles; or

13. Cannot be effectively controlled by its owner or handler.

C. The fact, or evidence of the fact, that the factors alleged to have caused the animal
to be a nuisance are inherent and/or natural behavior for such animal, or the action
of the owner or animal are otherwise legal, shall not negate or excuse a charge of
nuisance.

"Owner" means any person, partnership, corporation or any other type of entity or
association having title to, or custody of, or keeping, or harboring one or more animals. An
animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed and sheltered for a period of twenty-four
consecutive hours or more, or fed for a period of two or more days.

"Performing animal exhibition" means any spectacle, display, act or event in which animals
are used to provide a performance, whether a fee is charged or not.

"Pet" or "companion animal" means any animal of a species that has been domesticated to
live in or about the habitation of humans, is dependent on humans for food and shelter and
is kept by its owner for pleasure rather than utility and/or commercial purposes.

"Pet shop" means any commercial establishment containing cages or exhibition pens
wherein dogs, cats, birds or other pets, are kept, displayed and sold.

Docusign Envelope iD: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
“Provoked" means any deliberate act by a person towards a dog or any other animal done
with the intent to tease, torment, abuse, assault or otherwise cause a reaction by the dog
or other animal; provided, however, that any act by a person done with the intent to
discourage or prevent a dog or other animal from attacking shall not be considered
provocation.
“Quarantine” means the isolation of an animal in an enclosure so that the animal cannot
have physical contact with other animals or persons without recognized authority to be
near or about the quarantined animal.
"Riding school" or "stable" means an establishment which offers boarding and/or riding
instruction for any horse, pony, donkey, mule or burro, or which offers the use of such
animals for hire.
“Single-Family residential lot" means a single parcel in a primarily residential zone that is
occupied by one single-family detached home. For the purposes of Chapter 8.12 of these
ordinances single family residential lots shall also include single parcels ina primarily
residential zone occupied by a lawful duplex.
"Species subject to rabies" means any species that has been reported to the Center for
Disease Control and Prevention to have contracted the rabies virus and become a host for
that virus.
"Stray" means any animal at large, as defined in this chapter.
"Tether" means any chain, rope, cable, or device attached to a fixed object and used for
restraining a dog. The tether must be of sufficient strength to restrain the dog and be
appropriate to the breed, age, size, and weight of the dog and is attached to the dog bya
properly applied collar, halter or harness configured so as to protect the dog from injury or
entanglement with objects or other animals.
"Veterinarian" means any person properly licensed under the laws of the state of Utah to
practice veterinary medicine.
"Veterinary hospital" means any establishment operated by a licensed veterinarian for
surgery, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and injuries of animals.
"Vicious animal" means:
A. Any animal which, in a threatening and terrorizing manner, approaches any person
upon the streets, sidewalks or any public grounds or places in an apparent attitude
of attack;

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4F.C9-816D-0A18A1918C72
B. Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack or to cause
injury or otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or animals; or
C. Any animal which bites, inflicts injury, assaults or otherwise attacks a human being
or domestic animal on public or private property.
Whether an animal has been properly licensed under the provisions of this title shall have
no relevance to the determination of whether an animalis a "vicious animal" as defined in
this section.
"Wild animal" means any animal of a species that in its natural life is usually untamed and
undomesticated, including hybrids and animals which, as a result of their natural or wild
condition, cannot be vaccinated effectively for rabies. These animals, however
domesticated or tamed, shall include, but are not limited to:
A. Alligators and crocodiles;
B. Bears (Ursidae). All bears, including grizzly bears, brown bears, black bears, etc.;
C. Cat Family (Felidae). All except the commonly accepted domesticated cats,
including cheetah, leopard, lion, tynx, panther, mountain lion, tiger, wildcat, etc.;
D. Dog Family (Canidae). All except domesticated dogs, including wolf, part wolf, fox,
part fox, coyote, part coyote, dingo, etc.;
E. Porcupine (Erethizontidae);
F. Primate (Hominidae). All nonhuman primates;
G. Raccoon (Procyonidae). All raccoons, including eastern raccoon, desert raccoon,
ring-tailed cat, etc.;
H. Skunks;
|. Venomous fish and piranha;
J. Venomous snakes or lizards;
K. Weasels (Mustelidae). All including martens, wolverines, black-footed ferrets,
badgers, otters, ermine, mink, mongoose, etc.
For the purpose of this section, animals that are kept commercially or ranched shall
not be wild animals.
"Zoological park" means any facility, properly and lawfully licensed by applicable federal,
state or local law, operated by a person, partnership, corporation or government agency,

Docusign Envelope iD: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
other than a pet shop, kennel or cattery, displaying or exhibiting one or more species of
nondomesticated animals.

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
CHAPTER 8.02 ADMINISTRATION
8.02.010 Division Of Animal Services Created
There is created a division of animal services as a division of the Salt Lake County
department of public works.
8.02.020 Director--Powers and Duties
The division shall be under the direction of a director, who shall:

A. Enforce this chapter and perform other responsibilities inherent thereto;

B. Supervise the municipal animal shelter(s) under his/her jurisdiction;

C. Keep records of all animals impounded in such shelter(s);

D. Keep accounts of all moneys collected and received and follow the Uniform Fiscal
Procedures Act for Counties in accordance therewith in the administration of the
division;

E. Establish, in cooperation with the Salt Lake Valley health department and other
interested governmental agencies, measures for the control of, and immunization of
animals against, rabies;

F. Negotiate interlocal cooperation agreements with other interested governmental
agencies for the purpose of establishing animal control services throughout Salt
Lake County;

G. Establish rules and regulations for the training of all persons hired as animal control
officers to assure professional conduct of said persons and compliance with the
division's policies and with governing law;

H. Pursuant to duly adopted policies and procedures, waive or reduce impound-
related fees if warranted, or waive fees and penalties otherwise authorized in this
title; and

|. Pursuant to duly adopted policies and procedures, provide for deferred payments of
impound-related fees if warranted.

8.02.030 Director and Officers--Enforcement Authority
The director, his/her authorized deputies, assistants and animal control officers, or others
authorized by Magna City, are empowered to apprehend, and transport and impound any

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72

animal found in violation of this title, including licensable animals for which no license has
been procured in accordance with this title, or any licensed or unlicensed animals for any
other violation thereof and issue criminal citations and/or notice of violation and
stipulation for violations of this title.

8.02.040 Animal Control Officers--Powers and Duties

The director shall employ and designate those employees and volunteers of his/her
division who shalt perform the duties of animal control officer. Animal control officers shall
be authorized to enforce this chapter in all respects, including, but not limited to, the
apprehension and impoundment of animals found to warrant such action and issue
criminal citations and/or notice of violation and stipulation for violations of this title. Such
officers shall further carry out all lawful duties prescribed or delegated by the director. For
the purpose of this section, "volunteers" shall be defined as persons working without
compensation who have met the minimum training standards to perform the duties as set
forth by the director.

8.02.050 Right of Entry for Enforcement

In the enforcement of this title, any peace officer, animal control officer, or the director or
his/her assistants are authorized to enter into the open premises of any person to secure or
take possession of any animal which is reasonably deemed by such officer to then and
there, in the presence of such officer or official, be in violation of this title and issue
criminal citations and/or notice of violation and stipulations for violations of this title to the
owner or handler of such animal.

8.02.060 Interfering with Officers Prohibited

It is unlawful for any person to knowingly and intentionally interfere with the director or any
animal control officer in the lawful discharge of his/her duties as prescribed in this title. For
the purpose of this section, interfering with officers shall include, but not be limited to,
failing to hand over to or release to an officer an identifiable animal which has been
pursued but not captured by such officer, failing to make payment of agreed upon fees that
have been deferred by the director, failing to meet the agreed upon conditions of a fee
waiver, reduction or deferment, knowingly and intentionally failing to comply with an
abatement order lawfully issued by the director or failing to meet the conditions imposed
by a notice of violation and stipulation.

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4F C9-816D-0A18A1918C72
CHAPTER 8.03 COMMERCIAL PERMITS AND FANCIER'S PERMITS

8.03.010 Commercial Permit Requirements
It is unlawful for any person to operate or maintain a commercial holding facility or any
similar establishment, except a licensed veterinary hospital or clinic, unless such person
first obtains a regulatory permit from the division, in addition to all other required licenses.
All applications for permits to operate such establishments shall be submitted, together
with the required permit fee, on a printed form provided by the division. Before the permit is
issued, approval must be granted by the Salt Lake Valley health department, appropriate
zoning authority and the division.
8.03.020 Regulatory Authority of Division
The director shall have the authority to promulgate regulations for the issuance of permits
and shall include requirements for humane care of all animals and for compliance with the
provisions of this Title 8 and other applicable laws. The director may amend such
regulations from time to time as deemed desirable for public health and welfare and for the
protection of animals. Regulations promulgated under this delegation of authority shall not
extend the power of the division beyond that reasonably necessary to carry out the
requirements of this tittle. Regulations will not go into effect without the giving of prior
notice to the public of the proposed rule or regulation and of a public hearing to be held
thereon, through publication at least once in a newspaper with general circulation in Salt
Lake County, and the holding of a public hearing no sooner than fifteen days after the
publication of notice. The hearing officer shall be appointed by the director. Such officer
may be an officer or employee of Salt Lake County, but not of the division. Regulations shall
not become effective until approved and adopted by Salt Lake County.
8.03.030 Procedures

A. Allapplications for permits to operate a commercial animal establishment or
animal shelter shall be submitted to the division on a printed form provided by the
division.

B. Upon submission of an application, the division will verify with the Salt Lake Valley
health department, appropriate zoning authority, and appropriate business
licensing division that the applicant is in compliance with applicable rules,
regulations, ordinances and laws.

C. Applications must be accompanied by the fee established in Appendix A to this title,
attached hereto and/or incorporated by reference. The appendix may be modified

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4F C9-816D-0A18A1918C72
from time to time as deemed necessary by the director and upon approval of Salt
Lake County. The current appendix shall be available from the division.

D. Each permit issued under this section shall expire as outlined in Section 8.03.170.

E. Permits issued pursuant to this section are nontransferable.

F. Apermit issued under this section shall be prominently displayed in the business
office of the commercial animal establishment or animal shelter.

G. Late applications for the permits required by this section shall be subject to the late
fee set forth in Appendix A, attached to the ordinance codified in this Title 8 and
adopted by reference.

8.03.035 Sale of Dogs, Cats and Rabbits at Commercial Animal Establishments

A. Itis unlawful for any person to display, offer for sale, deliver, barter, auction, give
away, transfer, or sell any live dog, cat, or rabbit in any pet shop, retail business, or
other commercial animal establishment located in the county, unless the dog, cat,
or rabbit was obtained from an animal shelter. All pet shops, retail businesses, or
other commercial animal establishments selling dogs, cats, or rabbits shall
maintain a certificate of source for each of the animals and make it available upon
request to animal control officers, law enforcement, code compliance officials or
any other county or other employee charged with enforcing the provisions of this
section.

B. For purposes of this section, a certificate of source is defined as any document from
the source animal shelter declaring the source of the dog, cat, or rabbit on the
premises of the pet shop, retail business or other commercial animal
establishment.

C. This section shall not apply to the display, offer for sale, delivery, bartering, auction,
giving away, transfer, or sale of dogs, cats or rabbits from the premises on which
they were bred and reared.

D. Nothing in this section shall prevent the owner, operator, or employees of a pet
shop, retail business, or other commercial animal establishment located in the
county from providing space and appropriate care for animals owned by an animal
shelter and maintaining those animals at the pet shop, retail business, or other
commercial animal establishment for the purpose of public adoption.

8.03.040 Requirements for Catteries And Kennels

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
In addition to obtaining the permit required by this section, all catteries and kennels within
the jurisdiction of the division shall:

A. Be operated in such a manner as not to constitute a nuisance;

B. Provide an isolation area for boarded animals which are sick or diseased;

C. Retain for a period of one year the name, address and telephone number of the
owner and license number of each dog or cat boarded;

D. Retain for a period of three years the name and address of each person selling,
trading or giving any animal to the kennel or cattery;

E. Keep all boarded animals caged or under control of the owner or operator of the
kennel or cattery;

F. Care for all animals in the kennel or cattery, whether or not owned by the kennel or
cattery, shall comply with all the requirements of this chapter for the general care of
animals;

G. Comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws and all regulations
respecting kennels and catteries which are adopted by the division and in effect
from time to time; and

H. Supply the purchaser, residing in the licensing authority of this title, of any dog, cat
or ferret with an application for animal license, the form of which is prescribed by
the division.

8.03.050 Requirements of Pet Shops
In addition to obtaining the permit required by this section, all pet shops within the
jurisdiction of the division shall:

A. Be operated in such a manner as not to constitute a nuisance;

B. Provide an isolation area for animals which are sick or diseased, sufficiently
removed so as not to endanger the health of other animals;

C. Keep all animals caged or under the control of the owner or operator of the pet
store;

D. With respect to all animals in the pet shop, comply with all provisions of this chapter
providing for the general care of animals;

E. Notsell animals which are unweaned or so young or weak that their sale poses a
serious risk of death or inadequate development to them;

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72

F, Comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws and all regulations
respecting pet shops that are adopted by the division and in effect from time to
time;

G. Supply any purchaser, residing within the jurisdiction of this code, of any dog, cat or
ferret with an application for animal license, the form of which is prescribed by the
division; and

H. Provide the purchaser of an animal with written instructions as to the proper care
and control of that species.

8.03.060 Requirements for Stables
In addition to obtaining the permit required by this section, all stables within the
jurisdiction of the division shall:

A. Be operated in such a manner as not to constitute a nuisance;

B. Provide an isolation area for animals which are sick or diseased, sufficiently
removed so as not to endanger the health of other animals;

C. Keep all animals confined or under the control of the owner or operator of the
stable;

D. Care for all animals in the stable; shall comply with all the requirements of this
chapter for the general care of animals; and

E. Comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws, and all regulations
respecting stables that are adopted by the division and in effect from time to time.

8.03.070 Requirements for Animal Exhibitions

A. itis unlawful for any person to own, operate, sponsor or conduct an animal
exhibition within the jurisdiction of the division unless an animal exhibition permit
issued by the division, is first obtained therefor.

B. No animal exhibition shall occur within the jurisdiction of the division in which any
animal is exhibited, paraded or allowed to participate in a contest:

. Under conditions which cause physical injury to such animal;

. Under conditions that place spectators at risk of being harmed; or

. Unless all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and
standards adopted by reputable, nationally-recognized associations organized

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
for the operation of such exhibitions and acceptable to the division are complied
with by the operator of the exhibition.

C. Aperson owning, operating or sponsoring an animal exhibition within the
jurisdiction of the division without first obtaining the permit therefor required by this
section shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. Each day of violation of this
section shall be a separate offense. The division may also seek to obtain an
injunction against an animal exhibition through a court with jurisdiction over the
matter.

D. The application for an animal exhibition permit required by this subsection shall:

1. Describe the type of exhibition or contest and the kind and number of animals to
be on exhibition or involved in the contest and list the sites and dates of the
event(s); and

2. Contain such other information as may be required under regulations
established by the director; and include a sworn statement by the applicant that
the provisions of this title pertaining to animal exhibitions will be complied with
at all times.

E. No permit required by this subsection shall be issued until the applicant completes
the application form, pays the applicable fees as set forth in the then-current
Appendix A to this title, and receives the written approval of the division of the
provisions made for the safety, well-being and comfort of the animals involved.

F. Animal exhibition permits issued pursuant to this subsection shall be effective only
for the period specified in the permit, not to exceed thirty days.

G. Apermit issued pursuant to this subsection shall not be transferable.

H. Apermit issued pursuant to this subsection shall be displayed prominently at the
site of the animal exhibition.

|. The director may waive the permit fee for an animal exhibition that is sponsored by a
bonafide nonprofit organization, a governmental entity or a school if the purpose is a
county public purpose or a charitable purpose.

J. Animat exhibitions permitted under this section shall provide immediate access to
peace officers, animal control officers, and agents of the health department or Utah
State officials for the purpose of compliance inspections.

8.03.080 Requirements for Guard Dogs

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72

A. Itis unlawful for any person to own a guard dog without first obtaining a guard dog
permit as provided hereafter. It is unlawful for any person to hire the use of a guard
dog that has not been issued a guard dog permit.

B. Apermit required by this section shall be obtained from the division. The application
shall set forth the type of dog, the site(s) where such dog shall be used, the hours of
use of such dog, and any other information the director deems appropriate.

C. Permits are not transferable from one owner to another, nor from one site to
another.

D. Onthe premises where a guard dog is used, conspicuous warning signs shall be
posted at each door or gate that give access to the guard dog, and shall contain the
following wording: "Warning: A guard dog is guarding this property. Entry herein may
cause said dog to attack your person and cause significant injury, even death. To
reach the handler for said dog, call (enter telephone number)." The telephone
number contained in the warning required by this subsection must provide a twenty-
four-hour per day access to the guard dog's owner or handler.

E. Aguard dog shall not be allowed to become a nuisance.

F. A guard dog shall, in addition to licensing, be microchipped and the microchip
number shall be registered with the division. The license shall be attached to a one-
inch wide red or orange collar with the word "Danger" written or embroidered in
black lettering three-fourths inch in height. The collar must be on the dog at all
times.

G. Any person violating any provision of this section shall be guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor. Each day a guard dog is deployed for use by any person for the
detection of intruders and/or protection of premises, in violation of any provision of
this section, shall be deemed a separate offense.

8.03.090 Fancier's Permit--Authorized When

A. Where permitted by the zoning ordinances, owners of purebred dogs and cats may
obtain a permit to keep more than two dogs or cats in a residential area; provided:
1. Such pets are individually licensed;

2. Such pets are registered with a national registry, such as, but not limited to the
AKC, UKC or Field Dog;

3. Approvalis granted by the appropriate zoning authority, health department and
division of animal services;

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4F C9-816D-0A18A1918C72
4. Adequate confinement areas are provided;
5. Other provisions of this title are complied with, and no pet or premises is
deemed to be a nuisance.

B. The holder of a permit issued under this section may keep one litter intact until the
animals reach six months of age; one animal from the litter may be retained until it
reaches twelve months of age. At no time may the holder of a permit retain more
animals than is indicated on the permit.

8.03.100 Hobby Permit
Where permitted by the zoning ordinances, owners of dogs, cats and ferrets may obtain a
permit to keep more than two dogs, cats or ferrets in a residential area; provided:

A. Such pets are individually licensed;

B. Such pets are rendered sterile;

C. Approvalis granted by the appropriate zoning authority, health department and
division of animal services;

D. Adequate confinement areas are provided; and

E. Other provisions of this title are complied with, and no pet or premises is deemed to
be a nuisance.

8.03.110 Permit for Foster Animals
Where permitted by the zoning ordinances, owners of dogs and cats may obtain a permit to
keep more than two dogs or cats in a residential area; provided:

A. Such pets are the property of a local city or county operated animal shelter or a
Section 501 (c)(3), United States Internal Revenue Code, animal welfare
organization;

B. Such pets are awaiting adoption;

C. Approval is granted by the appropriate zoning authority, health department and
division of animal services;

D. Adequate confinement areas are provided; and

E. Other provisions of this title are complied with, and no pet or premises is deemed to
be a nuisance.

8.03.120 Exotic Animal Permit

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
It is unlawful for any person to own or keep an exotic animal without a permit. Unless
prohibited by Zoning or other ordinances or laws, any person, over the age of eighteen years
of age, may obtain an exotic animal permit upon:

A. Demonstrating sufficient knowledge of the species to provide adequate care;

B. Presenting proof of adequate caging appropriate for the species;

C. Presenting proof that the animal poses no threat to the health and safety of the
community in the event that the animal should escape. The director may consult
with a review board comprising federal, state and local public health authorities in
considering a request for an exotic animal permit; and

D. Presenting proof of required, if any, state or federal permits.

For the purpose of this section, to demonstrate "sufficient knowledge" of a species,
a person must show that he/she has adequate knowledge of a species to provide for
its basic needs to maintain the animal's health and welfare. The director may
consider the person's experience, education, apprenticeship or by examination
administered by the division when determining that a person has sufficient
knowledge of a species.

8.03.130 Dangerous Animal Permit

It is unlawful for any person to own or keep a dangerous animal without a permit. Unless

prohibited by zoning or other ordinances or laws, any person, over the age of eighteen years

of age, may obtain a dangerous animal permit upon:

A. Demonstrating sufficient knowledge of the species so as to be an expert in the care
and control of the species;

B. Presenting proof of adequate primary caging appropriate for the species and a
sufficient secondary system of confinement so as to prevent unauthorized access
to the animal and to prevent the animal's escape;

C. Presenting proof that adequate measures have been taken to prevent the animal
from becoming a threat to the health and safety of the community;

D. Presenting a plan of action in the event of the animal's escape. The director may
consult with a review board comprising federal, state and local public health
authorities in considering a request for a dangerous animal permit;

E. Presenting proof of required, if any, state or federal permits;

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72

F. Presenting proof of liability insurance in an amount of at least fifty thousand dollars.
For the purpose of this section, to demonstrate "sufficient knowledge" of a species,
a person must show that he/she has specialized knowledge of a species to provide
for its basic needs to maintain the animal's health, welfare and confinement. The
director may consider the person's experience, education, apprenticeship or by
examination administered by the division when determining that a person has
sufficient knowledge of a species.

8.03.140 Feral Cat Colony Permit

It is unlawful for any person to maintain a feral cat colony without a permit. Unless
prohibited by zoning or other ordinances or laws, any person over the age of eighteen years
of age, may obtain a feral cat colony permit upon:

A. Presenting proof that the cats in the maintained colony have been sterilized, given
their initial vaccinations and ear-tipped or are being actively trapped so as to
perform sterilization, vaccination and ear-tipping;

B. Presenting a detailed description of each cat in the colony with vaccination history;

C. Presenting proof of property owner and/or landlord permission at the site that the
colony is being maintained; and

D. Providing contact information, in the event that complaints are received by the
division concerning management of the colony.

8.03.150 Exemptions

Research facilities where bona fide medical or related research is being conducted,
501(c)(3) animal welfare shelters, and other animal establishments operated by state or
local government, or which are licensed by federal law, are excluded from the permit
requirements of Sections 8.03.040 through 8.03.060 of this title.

8.03.160 Permits--Display Requirements

Avalid permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place in any establishment for which such
permit is required, and such permit shall be considered as appurtenant to the premises
and not transferable to another location. The permittee shall notify the division within thirty
days of any change in his/her establishment or operation, which may affect the status of
his/her permit. In the event of a change in ownership of the establishment, the permittee
shall notify the division immediately. Permits shall not be transferable from one owner to
another.

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
8.03.170 Permit Fees--Expiration--Renewal

A. Apermit issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire one year after it is issued by the
division and shall be renewable upon acceptance by the division of a new
application. Renewal applications shall not be available until thirty days prior to the
expiration date of the current permit. A permit may only be issued after the
appropriate fee has been paid. Application must be accompanied by the fee
established in the permit and fee schedule, Appendix A attached to the ordinance
codified in this title and incorporated by reference into this chapter.

B. The permit and fee schedule may be modified from time-to-time as deemed
appropriate by the director and upon approval of Salt Lake County. The then current
permit fee schedule shall apply to all permit applications. A copy of the then-current
fee schedule shall be available at the division.

C. Permits are not transferable from one owner to another, from one site to another or
from one animal to another.

8.03.180 Establishments--Rules and Regulations

A. The director with approval of Salt Lake County may, from time to time, adopt rules
and regulations governing the operation of kennels, catteries, animal grooming
parlors, pet shops, riding stables or other animal-related establishments.

B. Such rules and regulations may provide for:

1. The type of structures, buildings, pens, cages, runways or yards required for the
animals sought to be kept, harbored or confined on such premises;

2. The manner in which food, water, and sanitation facilities will be provided to
such animals;

3. Measures relating to the health of such animals, the control of odors, noise, and
the protection of persons or property on adjacent premises; and

4. Such other matters as Salt Lake County shall deem necessary.

C. Such rules and regulations shall, upon publication and following adoption by Salt
Lake County, have the effect of law, and violation of such rules and regulations shall
be deemed a violation of this title, subject to the penalties provided for in Section
1.12.010, Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances, and grounds for revocation of a
permit issued by the division. Copies of the rules and regulations, when adopted,
shall be filed for public inspection in the office of the county clerk and the division.

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4F C9-816D-0A18A1918C72
8.03.190 Establishments--Inspections and Reports
All establishments required to have permits under this title shall be subject to periodic
inspections, and the inspector shall make a report of such inspection, which shall be given
to the establishment and will be filed at the administration section of the division.
8.03.200 Unlawful Activities--Notice Requirements
lf an inspection of kennels, catteries, animal grooming parlors, pet shops, riding stables,
similar establishments, or the premises of the holder of a permit reveals a violation of this
title, the inspector shall notify the permit holder or operator of such violation by means of
issuance of a citation as provided in Chapter 8.10 or issuance of a notice of violation and
stipulation as provided in Chapter 8.11. If the notice of violation and stipulation is used, the
notice shall:

A. Set forth the specific violation(s) found;

B. Establish a specific and reasonable period of time for correction of the violation(s)
found;

C. State that failure to comply in the specified period of time with any notice issued in
accordance with the provisions of this section may result in immediate suspension
of the permit and/or issuance of a citation; and

D. State that an opportunity for a hearing upon any grievance the owner or operator
may have concerning the inspection findings and corrections ordered by the animal
control officer may be processed according to the provisions of Chapter 8.11 of this
title.

8.03.210 Permits--Suspension or Revocation--Grounds
A permit may be suspended or revoked or a permit application rejected on any one or more
of the following grounds:

A. Falsification of facts in a permit application;

B. Material change in the conditions upon which the permit was granted;

C. Violation of any provisions of this title or any other law or regulation governing the
permittee's establishment, including, but not limited to, noise and/or building and
zoning ordinances; or

D. Conviction on a charge of cruelty to animals.

8.03.220 Permits--Suspension or Revocation--Procedure

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72

A. Any permit granted under this title may be suspended or revoked by the division for
violations of any of the requirements of this title. A permittee aggrieved by the
suspension or revocation of his/her permit may petition the director for review of
such grievance. Upon consideration of such grievance and upon good cause
showing, the director may, at his or her sole discretion, uphold or modify the
suspension or revocation, or reinstate the permit.

B. Anew permit shall not be issued to any person whose prior permit was suspended
or revoked by the division until the applicant has satisfied the director that he/she
has the means and the will to comply with the requirements of this title in the future.
An application for another permit must comply with the requirements for an
application for an initial permit, including application fee.

8.03.230 Emergency Suspension of Permits

Notwithstanding any other provisions of this title, when the inspecting officer finds
unsanitary or other conditions in the operation of kennels, catteries, animal grooming
parlors, riding stables, pet shops, or any similar establishments, or premises of the holder
of a permit obtained under this title, which in his/her judgment constitute an immediate
and substantial hazard to public health or the health and safety of any animal, he/she may
order the immediate seizure of any animals whose health and safety are at risk and order
the owner or operator of the establishment to immediately cease operations. It is unlawful
for any person to whom such an order is given to fail to obey the same. Any animals seized
under this section shall be impounded or otherwise cared for as the director of animal
services deems necessary. Persons whose permit has been suspended by such action may
petition the director for review of said suspension. Upon consideration of such petition and
upon good cause showing, the director may, at his or her sole discretion, uphold or modify
the emergency suspension or reinstate the permit.

8.03.240 Notice Of Suspension Of Permits--Service Procedures

Notice shall be deemed to have been properly served when the original of the inspection
report form or other notice has been delivered personally to the permit holder or person in
charge, or such notice has been sent by certified mail to the last known address of the
permit holder. A copy of such notice shall be filed with the records section of the division of
animal services.

Docusign Envelope !D: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
Chapter 8.04 ANIMALS REQUIRING A LICENSE

8.04.010 License--Required--Age and Residence Requirements For License Holder
All cats, dogs and ferrets must be licensed each year, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, to a person of the age of eighteen years or older who has a residence, with street
address, within the county.
8.04.020 License--Required--Age of Animals
Any person owning, possessing or harboring any cat, dog or ferret within the county shall
obtain a license for such animal within thirty days after the animal reaches the age of four
months, or, in the case of a cat, dog or ferret over four months of age, within thirty days of
the acquisition of ownership or possession of the animal by such person.
8.04.030 License--Application
License applications must be submitted to the division, utilizing a standard form which
requests name, address and telephone number of the applicant; breed, sex, color and age
of the animal; previous license information, rabies and sterilization information, and the
number, location or other identification applicable to a tattoo or implanted microchip of
the animal. The application shall be accompanied by the prescribed license fee and bya
rabies vaccination certificate current for a minimum of six months beyond the date of
application. A license shall not be issued for a period that exceeds the expiration date of
the rabies vaccination. A licensed veterinarian shall give rabies vaccinations with a vaccine
approved by the current compendium of animal rabies control.
8.04.040 Additional Requirements for Licensing Of Ferrets
First time applicants for ferret licenses must present, in addition to the requirements of
Section 8.04.030, proof of applicant's satisfactory completion of a ferret ownership class.
The class must have the approval/certification of the director and must, at a minimum,
include the following:

A. Explanation of the dangers ferrets present to people and other animals; and

B. Explanation of the dangers of owning a ferret in a household with infants and small

children.

The division encourages owners to sterilize and de-scent their ferrets.
8.04.050 Veterinary Verification

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
No dog, cat or ferret will be licensed as spayed or neutered without veterinary verification
that such surgery has been performed.
8.04.060 License--Fees--Senior Citizens
A person sixty years of age or older on the date of license application may, upon proof of
that person's age, obtain a senior citizen dog, cat or ferret license for an unsterilized animal
for an annual fee as set forth in Appendix A to the ordinance codified in this title. A person
sixty years of age or older may obtain a senior citizen dog, cat or ferret license for the life of
a spayed or neutered animal for a one-time fee as set forth in Appendix A to the ordinance
codified in this title, but such person shall nevertheless obtain a license tag, as needed,
without fee thereafter. This section shall not be construed to relieve any person from
meeting all licensing requirements not specifically exempted, including late fees and
required vaccinations, nor is any license issued hereunder transferable to any other animal
or owner other than that for which the license was issued.
8.04.070 License--Term and Renewal
The license shall be issued for one year, two years or three years, and be effective from the
date of purchase, through the end of the same month of the expiration year as the monthin
which the license is purchased, or at the end of the rabies vaccination period current for
the animal at the time the license is obtained, whichever date occurs first. Renewals must
be obtained prior to the expiration of the immediately preceding license. Applications for
renewals made after the expiration of the immediately preceding license must be
accompanied by a late fee as set forth in Appendix A to the ordinance codified in this title.
8.04.080 License--Revocation
If the owner of any dog(s), cat(s) or ferret(s) is found to be in violation of this title on three or
more different occasions within a twelve-month period, the director of animal services may
seek a court order pursuant to Chapter 8.10, revoking for a period of one year any and alt
license(s) such person may possess, and providing for the animal services division to pick
up and impound any animal kept by the person under such order. Any animal impounded
pursuant to such an order shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of this title
for impounded animals, except that the person under the order of revocation shall not be
allowed to redeem their pet, unless successfully making reapplication of the license with
the director. Persons seeking reapplication of such animals must comply with conditions
as set forth by the director that may include, but not limited to, sterilization of the
animal(s), enclosure requirements and confinement conditions.
8.04.090 License--Tag Requirements

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4F C9-816D-0A18A1918C72

A. Upon payment of the license fee, the division shall issue to the owner a receipt and
a tag for each pet licensed. The tag shall have stamped thereon the license number,
corresponding with the tag number on the receipt. The owner shall attach the tag to
the collar or harness of the animal and see that the animal constantly wears the
collar and tag. Failure to attach the tag as provided shall be a violation of this title,
except that dogs or cats which are kept for show purpose are exempt from wearing
the collar and tag while participating in an animal exhibition.

B. Tags are not transferable from one animal to another unless authorized by the
director. No refunds shall be made on any dog, cat or ferret license fee for any
reason whatsoever. Replacement for lost or destroyed tags shall be allowed upon
payment to the division of the replacement tag fee set forth in Appendix A to the
ordinance codified in this title.

C. Any person who removes, or causes the removal, of the collar, harness or tag from
any licensed dog, cat or ferret without the consent of the owner or keeper thereof,
except a licensed veterinarian or animal control officer who removes such for
medical or other reasons, shall violate this title.

D. Owners may have an identifying microchip implanted in their animals. If owners
take such action, they shall be exempt from the requirement that such animals wear
identifying tags at all times while off the premises; provided, that the microchip
information has been registered with the division. Owners shall assume the risk of
the loss or destruction of an unrestrained animal whose microchip either cannot be
located after a reasonable search therefor or owner information cannot be found
after a reasonable records search.

E. Itis the responsibility of any vendor of microchips to provide information to the
division as to the identification of the owner of an animal that has been
microchipped by such vendor.

8.04.100 License--Exemptions

A. The provisions of Sections 8.04.010 through 8.04.090 shall not apply in the following
circumstances:

1. The dog, cat or ferret is properly licensed in another jurisdiction and the owner
thereof is within the county temporarily, for a period not to exceed thirty
consecutive days. If the owner shall be within the county temporarily, but for a
period longer than thirty consecutive days, he/she may transfer the dog, cat or
ferret to the local license required by this chapter by payment of the fee set forth

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
in Appendix A to the ordinance codified in this title, and upon presentment of
proof of a current rabies vaccination for the animal;
2. Individual dogs or ferrets housed within a properly permitted facility or other
such establishment when such animals are held for resale.

B. The fee provisions of Sections 8.04.010 through 8.04.080 shall not apply to:

1. Seeing-eye dogs trained and certified to assist blind persons, if such dogs are
actually used by blind persons to assist them in moving from place to place;

2. Hearing dogs trained and certified to assist deaf persons to aid them in
responding to sounds and in use for that purpose;

3. Assistance dogs trained and certified to assist persons with a physical disability
and in use for that purpose; or

4. Dogs trained to assist officials of government agencies in the performance of
their duties and which are owned by such agencies.

C. Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to exempt any dog, cat or ferret
located within the county from having a current rabies vaccination.

8.04.110 License Vendors

The division director may contract with veterinary hospitals, veterinarians, pet shops,
animal grooming parlors, and similar institutions or individuals for the issuance of license
application forms.

8.04.120 Harboring Stray Animals, Unlawful Confinement or Concealment Of Animals

A. Itis unlawful for any person, except an animal welfare society incorporated, or
otherwise qualified to do business within the state of Utah and licensed under this
title, to harbor or keep any lost or stray pet, unless otherwise allowed by the laws of
the state of Utah. A person who assumes and maintains control of a lost or strayed
pet longer than twenty-four hours, without notifying the division of the presence and
location of such animal, shall be presumed to have violated this section.

B. Itis unlawful for any person to take an animal, without the permission of the owner
or handler thereof, and/or to confine an animal in a place unknown to the owner or
handler; or to conceal an animal's whereabouts from the owner or handler thereof.
The offense described herein is committed irrespective of the period of time of such
unlawful confinement or concealment. This section shall not apply to animal

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
control officers legally taking an animal in an emergency or under protection from its
owner or handler.
8.04.130 Dogs or Ferrets Running At Large--Owner Liability

A. Itis unlawful for the owner or handler of any dog or ferret to allow such dog or ferret
at any time to run at large. The owner or handler of a dog or ferret shall be liable in
damages for injury committed by such dog or ferret and it shall not be necessary in
any action brought therefore to allege or prove that such dog or ferret was of a
vicious or mischievous disposition or that the owner or keeper thereof knew that it
was vicious or mischievous.

B. The owner or handler of any dog or ferret shall be strictly liable for all damages
and/or injury committed by said dog or ferret and shall indemnify and hold the
county harmless from said damage or injury. In order to establish that an owner or
handler is liable for and/or bound to indemnify the county from damage or injury
done by said dog or ferret, it shall not be necessary to allege or prove that such dog
or ferret was of a vicious or mischievous disposition or that the owner or handler
thereof knew that it was vicious or mischievous.

8.04.140 Animal Trespass

It is unlawful for the owner or handler of an animal to allow such animal to trespass on the
property of another.

8.04.150 Staking Dogs Improperly

A. Itis unlawful for any person to chain, stake out or tether any dog on any unenclosed
premises in such a manner that the animal may go beyond the property line unless
such person has permission of the owner of the affected property.

B. Itis unlawful for any person to chain, stake out or tether any dog on any premises in
a manner that prevents the dog from having access to food, water or shelter.

8.04.160 Female Dogs in Heat

Any owner or person having charge, care, custody or control of any female dog in heat
shall, in addition to restraining such dog from running at large, cause such dog to be
constantly confined in a building or other structure so as to prevent it from attracting by
scent or coming into contact with other dogs and creating a nuisance.

8.04.170 Animals Prohibited or Restricted In Designated Areas

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72

A. Itis unlawful for any person to take or permit any animal, whether loose or ona
leash or in arms, in or about any establishment or place of business where food or
food products are sold or displayed, or served, including but not limited to
restaurants, grocery stores, meat markets and fruit or vegetable stores.

B. Itis unlawful for any person keeping, harboring or having charge or control of any
dog to allow such dog to be within protected watershed areas as designated by
either the Salt Lake Valley health department or any public water district.

C. In accord with Section 8.06.040, dogs that qualify as vicious or dangerous animals,
shall not be permitted off the premises of the owner or handler unless such animal
is under physical restraint and muzzled or confined so as to prevent it from injuring
any person, animal or property.

D. In accord with Title 13, Parks and Recreation, Section 13.04.100C, unless otherwise
established pursuant to subsection G below, all dogs in county parks, as defined
under 13.04.020, shall be under physical restraint.

E. Unless otherwise established dogs shall be under physical restraint in all developed
areas of the county, which include but are not limited to: residential neighborhoods;
streets; sidewalks; areas that result in concentrated use, including campgrounds,
picnic areas, playgrounds, parking lots and ski resorts; county parks unless
otherwise designated and the Jordan River Parkway.

F. Itis unlawful to possess an unleashed dog on even-numbered days in Millcreek
Canyon.

G. This section shall not apply to dogs provided for in subsection B of Section 8.04.100,
or when the Salt Lake Valley board of health adopts rules and regulations which set
forth the times and places where dogs may be allowed, with or without physical
restraint, without compromising the health and safety of humans, causing a
nuisance or damaging property.

H. Itis unlawful for any person to take any dog into or permit any dog to be at large in
Parley's Historic Nature Park in any way contrary to any rules or regulations adopted
by Salt Lake City setting out designated areas and trails where dogs may be either
on-leash or off-leash.

8.04.180 Attacks by Animals--Owner Liability--When Destruction Shall Be Authorized

A. !tis unlawful for the owner or person having charge, care, custody or control of any
animal to allow such animal to attack, chase or worry any human, domesticated
animal, any species of hoofed wildlife protected by any law or ordinance, or any pet

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
or companion animal. "Worry," as used in this section, means to harass or
intimidate by barking or baring of teeth, growling, biting, shaking or tearing with the
teeth; or approaching any person in an apparent attitude of attack or any aggressive
behavior which would cause a reasonable person to feel they were in danger of
immediate physical attack.

B. Any penalty imposed as a result of prosecution of a person under subsection A of
this section shall be in addition to any penalties or liabilities imposed upon such
person by any other law or ordinance.

C. Defenses. The following shall be considered in mitigating the penalties or damages,
or in dismissing a charge brought under subsection A of this section:

1. Thatthe animal was properly confined on the premises; or
2. That the animal was deliberately or maliciously provoked.

D. Animals May Be Killed. Any person may kill (or take other protective action) an
animal while it is committing any of the acts specified in subsection A of this section
or while such animal is being pursued thereafter or to protect him/herself, or
members of the public from any threat of death or personal injury then being posed
by the animal.

8.04.190 Dog and Cat Limits

There is no limitation on the numbers of dogs and cats that can be owned by a resident,
provided that all dogs and cats are properly licensed and cared for. Dog and cat owners
must abide by all applicable sections of Title 8 of these ordinances including, but not
limited to, ordinances regarding proper care and maintenance, medical attention, and
animal cruelty. Owners are required to prevent their animals from causing, and shalt abate,
any nuisances caused by animals including, but not limited to, noise and odor.

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
Chapter 8. BIES CONTROL
8.05.010 Dog, Cat and Ferret Rabies Vaccination Requirements

A. The owner or person having charge, care, custody and control of a ferret, cat or dog
four months of age or older shall have such animal vaccinated against rabies and
shall thereafter ensure that such animal is revaccinated as often as is required to
maintain the animal in a current rabies vaccination status. Any person permitting
any animal to habitually be on or remain, or be lodged or fed within such person's
house, yard or premises shall be responsible for the vaccinations of the animal.
Unvaccinated ferrets, dogs or cats over four months of age acquired by the owner or
moved into the jurisdiction must be vaccinated within thirty days of acquisition or
arrival. Every dog, cat and ferret shall have a current rabies vaccination with a rabies
vaccine approved by the current compendium of animal rabies control.

B. Veterinarians, cattery and kennel operators shall be responsible for determining
that dogs, cats and ferrets are currently vaccinated for rabies prior to accepting the
animal from their owners or caretakers for temporary housing on their premises.

C. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a veterinarian providing emergency
medical care to a sick or injured animal.

8.05.020 Rabies Vaccination--When Valid

A. Animals that have had a valid vaccination for rabies will not be considered to have a
current vaccine until thirty days following the first vaccination and will be
considered unvaccinated the day following the expiration of the last documented
valid vaccination.

B. For the purpose of management of bite cases, an owner may, within the six months
of expiration of the last vaccine, submit proof of protection against rabies. Such
proof shall be in the form of a written statement from a veterinarian based upon a
blood titer paid for by the owner, drawn after the bite and prior to, or within ten days
of, any revaccination.

8.05.030 Rabies Vaccination--Veterinarian Duties--Certification and Tags

A. It shall be the duty of each veterinarian, when vaccinating any animal for rabies, to
complete a certificate of rabies vaccination, in duplicate, which includes the
following information:

1. Owner's name and address;

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4F C9-816D-0A18A1918C72
2. Description of the animal (breed, sex, markings, age, name);
3. Date of vaccination;
4. Rabies vaccination tag number;
5. Type of rabies vaccine administered; and
6. Manufacturer's serial number of vaccine.

B. Acopy of the certificate shall be distributed to the owner and the original retained by
the issuing veterinarian. The veterinarian and the owner shall retain their copies of
the certificate for the interval between vaccinations specified in this chapter.

C. Additionally, a metal or durable plastic rabies vaccination tag, serially numbered,
may be securely attached to the collar or harness of the animal. An animal
discovered in public view and not wearing a rabies tag, or current license tag, shall
be deemed to be unvaccinated and may be impounded or seized in accordance
with law and dealt with pursuant to this title.

8.05.040 Impoundment Of Animals Without Valid Vaccination Tags

A. Any vaccinated animal impounded because of a lack of a rabies vaccination tag
may be reclaimed by its owner upon the owner furnishing proof of rabies
vaccination and payment of all fees attributable to said animal's apprehension and
impoundment accrued up to the date of release.

B. Any unvaccinated animal may be reclaimed by its owner prior to disposal of such
animal under the procedures set forth hereafter in Section 8.07.040 of this title by
payment of all fees attributable to said animal's apprehension and impoundment
and by the owner posting a rabies deposit as found in Appendix A to the ordinance
codified in this title. Such deposit may be recovered by owner upon showing proof of
rabies vaccination within seventy-two hours of release.

C. Any animal not reclaimed prior to the period specified in Section 8.07.050 of this
title shall be disposed of pursuant to that section.

8.05.050 Rabid Animal Reports

A. Any person having knowledge of the presence or whereabouts of an animal known
to have been exposed to or reasonably suspected of having rabies and any person
having knowledge of an animal or person bitten by a wild or domestic carnivorous
mammal or bat shall report such knowledge and all pertinent information available
to the division and/or Salt Lake Valley health department. Any person having

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72

custody of such animal shall confine the animal pending direction from the division

or health department.

B. Itis unlawful under this title for any person having knowledge of the presence or
whereabouts of an animal known to have been exposed to, or reasonably suspected
of having, rabies; or of an animal or person bitten by such an animal; to harbor,
protect or otherwise interfere with the apprehension or identification of such animal
or persons by wilfully withholding such knowledge from an animal control officer,
peace officer, or any officer of the Salt Lake Valley health department or the Utah
State Department of Health.

C. Itis a violation of this title for an owner, or other person having the care, custody and
control of an animal known, suspected or deemed to have been exposed to rabies
as set forth in this section to fail to surrender such animal immediately upon
demand by any peace officer, animal control officer, or officer of the Salt Lake Valley
health department or Utah State Department of Health.

8.05.060 Animals Exposed to Rabies
Any animal potentially exposed to rabies virus by a wild or domestic carnivorous mammal
or a bat that is not available for testing shall be regarded as having been exposed to rabies.

A. Unvaccinated dogs, cats and ferrets exposed to a rabid animal shall be euthanized
immediately. If the owner is unwilling to have this done, the animal shall be placed
in strict isolation for six months under a veterinarian's supervision, at the owner's
expense, and vaccinated one month before being released.

B. Dogs, cats and ferrets that are currently vaccinated shall be revaccinated
immediately, kept under the owner's control and observed for forty-five days.

C. Livestock shall be handled as per the current compendium of animal rabies control.

8.05.070 Management of Animals That Bite Humans
A. An apparenily healthy dog, cat or ferret that bites a person or another animal shall
be quarantined and the following provisions shall apply:

1. The animal shall be observed for a period of not less than ten days by the
division and/or the Salt Lake Valley health department, and the owner of the
animal shall be responsible for the cost of such quarantine.

2. The normal place for such quarantine shall be the division's animal shelter;
however, other arrangements suitable to the division's director may be made for

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
the period of observation specified herein upon the condition that the biting
animal had a current rabies vaccination at the time the bite was inflicted.

3. Aperson having custody of an animal under quarantine at a place other than the
division's animal shelter shall immediately notify the division if the animal shows
any signs of sickness or abnormal behavior, or ifthe animalescapes from.
quarantine.

4. Itis unlawful for any person who has custody of a quarantined animal to fail or
refuse to allow an officer of the division, the Salt Lake Valley health department
or a veterinarian designated by them, to make an inspection or examination of
the animal during, and/or at the end of the period of quarantine.

5. Ifthe quarantined animal dies within ten days from the date of the bite for which
the animal was quarantined, the person having custody of such animal shalt
immediately notify the division of such fact and immediately deliver the animal
to their veterinarian or the division for the removal and delivery of the head of
such animal to a laboratory specified by the Utah State Department of Health for
examination for rabies.

6. Atthe end of the quarantine period, the director or designee shall examine the
quarantined animal and if no sign of rabies is present in the animal, the animal
may be released to its owner. Stray animals shall be disposed of as provided in
Section 8.07.050.

7. If, during the quarantine, the animal exhibits symptoms of rabies, it shall be
immediately destroyed and tested.

8. Any stray or unwanted dog, cat or ferret that bites a person may be euthanized
immediately and submitted for rabies examination, if an immediate examination
is determined necessary by the Salt Lake Valley health department.

B. Animals other than dogs, cats or ferrets that might have exposed a person to rabies
shall be reported immediately to the Salt Lake Valley health department. Case
management will be a collaborative effort between the health department and the
division.

Docusign Envelope ID: FACFD282-0A93-4FC9-816D-0A18A1918C72
Chapter 8.06 ANIMAL BITES AND NUISANCES
8.06.010 Nuisance--Penalties for Allowing
An owner or person having charge, care, custody or control of an animal or animals
| creating a nuisance or which constitute a “public nuisance animal” as defined in this title
shall be guilty of allowing a nuisance in violation of this title and subject to the penalties
provided in this title.
-06. imal Nuisan t t

A. Ifthe director has reasonable grounds to believe that an animal constitutes a
"public nuisance animal," as defined in this title, and that such nuisance
necessitates immediate abatement, he/she may issue an abatement order, by mail
or posting, giving the animal owner or keeper seven days to abate the animal
nuisance. lf the animal nuisance is not abated within seven days after delivery of the
abatement notice, the division may seize the animal(s) pending delivery of an order
concerning the disposition of the animal(s) by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Each day that an owner or keeper allows an animal nuisance to persist beyond
seven days following delivery of an abatement notice will constitute a separate
violation of this title.

B. Ifthe court determines that the animal in question is not a nuisance and/or need not
be abated for the public health and safety, the division shall return the animal to the
owner or handler forthwith, and shall assume the responsibility for the costs
incurred while the animal is under the care and keeping of the division. If the court
determines that the animal in question constitutes a public nuisance, the owner or
handler shall be liable to the division for the cost incurred by the division for the
animal's care and keeping while the matter is before the courts, and for the cost of
destroying the animal.

8.06.030 Animal Bites--Reporting Requirements

A. Persons who obtain knowledge that an animal has bitten another animal or a human
shall report the fact(s) to the division within twenty-four hours of the bite, regardless
of whether the biting animal is of a species subject to rabies.

B. Aphysician, or other medical personnel, who renders professional treatment to a
person bitten by an animal shall report that fact to the division or the Salt Lake
Valley health department within twenty-four hours of his/her first professional
attendance. Such report shall include the name, sex and address of the person
