ORDINANCE 2025-0-11
Ordinance No.2025-O-11 Date: September 9, 2025
AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL AMENDING SECTION
19.42.020 OF THE ZONING ORDINANCE TO WAIVE SPECIFIC USE
STANDARDS PERTAINING TO LOT SIZE, BUILDING ORIENTATION,
STREET FRONTAGE, AND BUILDING HEIGHT FOR USES THAT WILL
OCCUPY PRE-EXISTING COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES.
RECITALS
WHEREAS, Magna City is a municipality and has authority to adopt land use
regulations pursuant to Utah Code § 10-9a-501 in accordance with the Municipal Land
Use, Development, and Management Act, Title 10, Section 9a, Utah Code; and
WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to amend its land use ordinances to
accommodate for the re-use of existing commercial buildings while maintaining the
specific use standards necessary to protect the public health, safety and general welfare;

WHEREAS, the Magna City Planning Commission held a public hearing on

August 14, 2025, to consider the proposed amendment to Section 19.42.020 of the Specific
Use Standards chapter of the zoning ordinance (the “Proposed Action”) in accordance with
Utah Code §§ 10-9a-205 and 10-9a-502; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has recommended that the Council adopt

the amendment as submitted.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL as follows:
1. Section 19.42.020 of the Magna City zoning ordinance is hereby revised to read as

follows:

19.42.020 APPLICABILITY

A. This Chapter contains the specific and additional regulations for permitted and
conditional uses identified in the Schedule of Uses for each of the zones
contained in this Title. Any use not listed as permitted or conditional in the
applicable zone shall be prohibited.

B. Except as outlined in subsection C below, [C]compliance with specific use
standards, as applicable, as well as all other requirements of this Ordinance, and
all other land use ordinances, and all other Federal, State, and Local
requirements are required for any land use application approval required by this

Ordinance, or any other approval, permit, or license required by other land use
ordinances.

C. Specific _use standards of this chapter pertaining to lot size, building
orientation, street frontage, and/or building height do not apply to
commercial land uses that will occupy pre-existing non-residential
(commercial) structures. However, all other specific use standards apply
including without limitation: noise _and odor mitigation, vehicular
circulation and parking, hours of operation, property management, day to
day operations, minimum spacing between the proposed use and other land
uses, Visual screening, and all other health, safety, and welfare protection
standards.

2. Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or specific
application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue
in full force and effect.

3. Direction to Staff. Staff are authorized and directed to take such steps as may be needed:
(a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law, including but not limited to
compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711; and (b) to finalize and post
the ordinance to Municode, including but not limited to making non-substantive edits
to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.

4. Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting pursuant to
Utah Code § 10-3-712.

{Signatures on Following Page}

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 9" day of September 2025.
MAGNA CI UNCIL
By: Eri éy, Mayor
ATTEST
api Baun, alsa
Voting:
Council Member Barney _ voting QUAg
Council Member Hull voting Dh
Council Member Pierce _ voting Oh
Council Member Prokopis voting
Council Member Sudbury voting
(Complete as Applicable)
Date ordinance summary was posted to the Magna City website,
the Utah Public Notice website, and in a public place within Magna City
per Utah Code §10-3-711:__September 11, 2025
Effective date of ordinance: September 11, 2025

SUMMARY OF
MAGNA CITY
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-11
On September 9, 2025, the Magna City Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-
O-11, amending Section 19.42.020 of the zoning ordinance to waive specific use
standards pertaining to lot size, building orientation, street frontage, and building height
for uses that will occupy pre-existing commercial structures.
ZY ul
y: Eric Barney, or

ATTEST
yu Baun, Retorder
Voting:
Council Member Barney voting
Council Member Hull voting
Council Member Pierce _ voting
Council Member Prokopis voting
Council Member Sudbury voting
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-11 is available in the office of the Magna City
Recorder, 860 West Levoy Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah.

SUMMARY OF
MAGNA CITY
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-11

On September 9, 2025, the Magna City Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-
O-11, amending Section 19.42.020 of the zoning ordinance to waive specific use
standards pertaining to lot size, building orientation, street frontage, and building height
for uses that will occupy pre-existing commercial structures.
Lass shor
ATTEST
ay, Baun, 0
Voting:
Council Member Barney _ voting OUAp
Council Member Hull voting
Council Member Pierce _ voting aite
Council Member Prokopis voting
Council Member Sudbury voting ade.
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-11 is available in the office of the Magna City
Recorder, 860 West Levoy Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah.

Ts MAGNAS) mk Ordinance Amendment
A
Meeting Body: City Council PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Meeting Date: August 26, 2025 This ordinance amendment is to exempt from the specific use standards
only those standards intended to pertain to land uses being established
File Number & Project Type: through a new land development application. One example in 19.42 is a
OAM2025-001462 requirement that childcare centers be located on lots 20,000 square feet
Amend Section 19.42.020 to or larger. However, this would preclude a small commercial day care from
waive specific use standards operating within one of the existing commercial buildings on Magna Main
pertaining to lot size, building Street. Another example is a requirement that Hotels contain at least 3
orientation, street frontage, and stories. Conversion of an existing 2-story building into hotel space would
building height for uses that will not be allowed under that standard. The ordinance also specifically
occupy existing commercial exempts standards related to lot size, building height, street frontage, and
structures. building orientation for the re-use of an existing commercial structure. The
Planner: Curtis Woodward, proposed text goes on to specifically state that all other specific use
Senior Planner standards still apply.
Key Findings: It is also worth noting that because the exemption is limited to the
applicability of the use standards in 19.42, it does not apply to standards
e Of the many Specific Use found elsewhere in the code, such as parking, landscaping, or signs; nor
Standards in Chapter 19.42, a does it change the requirement that a land use be listed as a permitted or
few appear to be aimed at conditional use in the underlying zone in order to be approved.
new development sites.
e Waiving a limited number of
use standards for existing ISSUES/CONCERNS
commercial structures will
allow re-use of buildings Issue: In many cases, new land uses are established at the time
while not jeopardizing health vacant ground is developed. It is evident that some of the specific
and safety. use standards were written with that application type in mind.
P.C. Recommendation: However, Magna has a number of existing non-residential buildings
Approval that do meet those standards and would therefore not be usable
for those land uses.
Exhibits:
A. Proposed ordinance Analysis:
In reviewing the code, it became apparent that by waiving those
standards specific to lot size, configuration, building height, etc. but
enforcing other key standards related to critical health, safety, and
welfare concerns, the adaptive re-use of existing buildings can be
accommodated without sacrificing the safety of the residents or the
intent and purpose of the Magna City zoning ordinance.
Ordinance amendment application number: OAM2025-001462 _—— Date: August 26, 2025 | Page 1 of 3

GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
Under “Future Land Use Considerations” for the Magna Main Street historic district, the Magna
General Plan states, “The community has invested resources into improving the streetscape
and encouraging preservation and reuse of the buildings.” (pg. 36)
Economic Sustainability is one of the key factors identified in the “Sustainability” section of the
Magna General Plan. Page 92 of the general plan states, “As Magna moves towards full city
status, a broad economic base will contribute to long-term fiscal stability. A broad economic
base is a result of adding employment, retail and other tax generating uses to the City ina
balanced proportion as new residents move in.” Accommodating a diversity of commercial uses
in existing non-residential buildings will contribute towards establishing and maintaining this
“broad economic base.”
APPLICABLE FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION
Table 19.16.080 includes the following guidelines a planning commission and Council may consider in
deciding zoning map and text amendments:
GUIDELINES FOR CONSIDERING ZONING TEXT AMENDMENTS
The proposed amendment is compatible with the Adopted General Plan.
The proposed amendment promotes the public health, safety and welfare.
The proposed amendment is compatible with the intent and general purposes of this Ordinance.
The proposed amendment corrects an error or omission, adds clarification to existing requirements, or
reflects a change in policy.
The proposed amendment benefits the citizens of the Municipality as a whole.
The proposed amendment does not create a significant number of nonconformities.
PUBLIC INPUT
During the planning commission meeting of August 14, 2025, there were no public comments submitted
in favor or opposition.
ANALYSIS AND RECOMMENDATION
Ordinance amendment application number: OAM2025-001462 Date: August 26, 2025 | Page 2 of 3

Analysis and Summary:

In reviewing the various specific use standards in chapter 19.42, planning staff feels that differentiating

standards that apply to new developments from those that apply to existing structures will better

facilitate occupancy of existing buildings while mitigating negative impacts to the community through

the application of the remaining specific use standards.

Recommendation:

The Magna City planning commission recommended approval of the proposed amendment.
OPTIONS:

As the legislative body for Magna City, the City Council has the following options:

1. Approval: The Council approves Ordinance number 2025-O-___ submitted under application
OAM2025-001462 to amend Title 19 of the Magna City code.

2. Approval with changes: The Council approves Ordinance number 2025-O-___ submitted under
application OAM2025-001462 to amend Title 19 of the Magna City code with the following
amendment(s) to the text:

a.
b.

3. Denial: Having considered the Guidelines for Zoning Text Amendments contained in Chapter
19.16 of the Magna City zoning ordinance, the Council denies Ordinance number 2025-O-__
submitted under application OAM2025-001462 to amend Title 19 of the Magna City code.

Ordinance amendment application number: OAM2025-001462 _— Date: August 26, 2025 | Page 3 of 3
