                                   MAGNA CITY, UTAH

Ordinance No. 2025-0-15                                            Date: October 14,2025

    AN ORDINANCE OF MAGNA CITY COUNCIL AMENDING CHAPTERS
   II.2O AND II.44 OF THE MAGNA CITY MUNICIPAL CODE, PROVISIONS
                  RELATED TO TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT
WHEREAS, Magna City ("Magna Clty") adopted each county ordinance in effect at the
time of its incorpo-ration as a Met.o Township pursuant to Utah Code Ann. Subsection l0-2a-
 414(3)(2023), which ordinance continued in force upon its conversion to a City, pursuant
to Utah Code Ann. $ 10-1-201 .5(6)(2024), andMagnaCilyhas authority to amend or repeal
such ordinance when it determines it is necessary; and

WHEREAS, Magna City is a municipality and has authority to regulate and enforce its
code pursuant to Utah Code; and

WHEREAS, Magna City has authority to adopt ordinances relating to traffic and parking
enforcement to pr-otect public health, safety, and welfare; and

WHEREAS, the Magna City Council deems it necessary to ame_nd Chapters 11.20 and
11.44 of the Magna C'ity Municipal Code in order to ensure and allow more efficient
                                                                                    and
                                                                        and ensure  the
effective traffic enforcement in pannership with local law enforcement,
public health, safety, and welfare of the Magna City Community.

 BE IT ORDAINED BY MAGNA CITY COUNCIL as follows:

 1.    The attached Sections of Title     ll
                                          to include Chapters 11.20 and 1l.44,are hereby
       amended as in the attached Attachment A, all other non-amended sections of Title
       11 to remain the same until such time as dealt with by Magna City.

 2.    Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of these
       Ordinances is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion(s) of these Ordinances,
       or specific application of these Ordinances, shall be severed from the remainder,
       which shall continue in full force and effect.

 3.    Implementation. Magna City staff are instructed to take administrative steps needed
       to incorporate ttre amelOed sections, as set fbrth in Afiachment A, for publication in Municode,
       including but not limited to making any formaffing, grammatical, or other non-
       substantive changes to the Ordinances that may be needed'

 4.    posting and Effective Date. After Magna City staff have prepared Attachment
       A for publication to Municode, the staff shall post the affached summary pursuant
       toUtahCodeg lO-3-711(1)(b); and publish Attachment A to Municode. This
       ordinance will become effective as of the date the summary is posted and
       Attachment A is published to Municode.
  PASSED AND ADOPTED this 14th day of October, 2025.




ATTEST:                                                           APPROVED:




           City                                            City

Voting

Mayor Barney                voting Ptlq/-
Council Member Hull         voting  dgar
Council Member Pierce       voting   &w
Council Member Prokopis     voting tUe-.
Council Member Sudbury      voting  ftp




     Date ordinance summary was posted on the Utah Public Notice Website:
                     IU   uLa
                                             tt1 1AL5
SUMMARY OF MAGNA CITY ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O.I5

       On the 14th day of October,2025 the Magra City Council enacted Ordinance No.
2025-C,-15 that adopts amended sections of Titles 1 l, specifically Chapters 1 1.20 artd 11.44,
of the Magna City Municipal Code ("MCMC") relating to traffic enforcement and parking
to ensure the public health, safety, and welfare of the Magna City Community



MA



     G            t



           ATTEST




       Baun, City Recorder

APPROVED AS TO FORM




CITY A


         Voting

                                             utfi-
         Mayor Barney
         Council Member Hull
         Council Member Pierce
                                    voting
                                    voting ffir
                                    voting MLl
         Council Member Prokopis
         Council Member Sudbury
                                           +
                                    voting tra0
                                    voting



A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-0-15 is available in the office of the Magna City
Recorder, 860 Lavoy Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah.
ATTACHMENT A
Chapter 11.20 Stopping Standing and Parking

1   1.20.010 Erection Of Trafflc Control Devices

It shalt be the duty of the traffic engineer on behatf of the City to cause traffic signs and
other traffic controt devices to be erected and to regulate, warn and guide traffic and
parking on the streets, highways and property of the City. No traffic control device shatt be
ptaced or maintained upon any highway under the jurisdiction of the Utah Department of
Transportation.

11 .2o.02O Curb Marl<ings

      1. The traffic engineer is authorized on behatf of the Cityto ptace and maintain
         appropriate signs or traffic markings to indicate standing or parking regutations, and
         the traffic markings shatt designate the zones and shall have the meanings set forth
         in this chapter:

             1   . "Red" means no stopping, standing or parking at any time.
             2. "Yettow," with the words "Restricted Zone" stenciled thereon, means no
                   stopping, standing or parking except as stated on the signs or markings giving
                   notice thereof, except that this provision shatt not appty on Sundays and
                   tegat hotidays.

      2. When appropriate signs or traffic curb markings have been erected or placed
         according to this section, no person shatt stop, stand or park a vehicte in any zone in
         viotation of the provisions of this section.

11.20.030 Regutation Ol Parking

      1. The traff ic engineer may on behatf ot the City ptace signs on att City roads and
         highways prohibiting or restricting the parking of vehictes where, in his or her
         opinion, as evidenced by an order entered in his or her records, such parking is
         dangerous to those using the roads or where the parking of vehictes woutd unduty
         interfere with the f ree movement of traffic thereon.

      2. The traffic engineer may on behatf of the City prohibit, restrict or regutate the
         parking, stopping or standing of vehictes on any off-street parking facitity or property
         that the City owns or oPerates.

      3. No such regutations shatt appty untit signs giving notice thereof have been erected.
      4. The provisions of this Chapter 1 1.20 concerning regutation of parking shatt be
          construed so as not to conftict with the provisions of chapter 1 1 .26. ln any situation
          where the provisions of this chapter 1 1 .20 appear to conftict with the provisions of
          Chapter 11.26, the provisions of Chapter 1 1.26 shatt prevai[.
11.20.050 Parking Prohibited ln Specified Areas

   A
   B    ln front of or within f ive feet of a pubtic or private driveway; For the p u rposes of th is
        code the edge of the driveway is defined by the p oint \.^/here the a p proa ch apron
     meets the back of curb and or gutter or roadway edge in the absence of a gutter.
     Within 20 feet or insicle the boundaries of any inte rsectio n.
   D Within fifteen feet of a fire hydrant, whether on pubtic or private property or within a
     fire tane as designated and marked in accordance with the provisions of subsection
     J of section 2.28.030 of this code, whether on pubtic or private property;

   E    On or within twenty feet of a crosswall( or designated crossing;
   F    Within thirty feet of any ttashing beacon or tlaffic control device tocated at the side
      of a roadway;
   G. ln front of or within tvventy feet on either side of the entrance or exit of any theater,
      fire stataon or ptace of public assembtage;
   H. Within fifty feet of the nearest rail of a raitroad crossing;
   l. Atongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when stopping, standing
      or parking woutd obstruct or be hazardous to traftic;
   J. Within any attey, exceptforthe necessaryand expeditious toadingand untoadingof
      merchandise; provided, that in no event shal[ the driveway or entrance to any
      abutting property be btocked or free movement ot traffic through the atley be
      interfered with;
   K. Upon any bridge or other etevated structure on a street or within a street tunnel or
      underpass;
   L. Upon that side of any street contiguous to any schoot property during schoot hours;
   M. At any ptace where officiat signs or traffic controts ptaced by the traftic engineer
      prohibit stopping, standing or parking.
   N. Within 8 feet of a maitbox between the hours of 7:00 am and 5:00 pm
   O Parkrng ln Disabled Parking Stalls
         1. No vehrcle shall park ln any parkrng spot desrgnated for parklng by
              drsabled persons. u n less
                    a The driver or a passenger in the vehlcle rs disabled and the vehicle
                     displays a drsabilrty special group license plate temporary
                     removable wrndshield placard. or removable windshield placard
                     issued by the State. another state territory. or foreign lurisdiction.
                     or
                    bThe dnver of the vehrcle is parked to load or unload a passenger
                     who is drsabled and the vehicle drsplays a disabillty special group
                     license plate. temporary removable wrndshield placard. or
                     removable windshield placard rssued by the State another state
                     terntory. or forergn lu nsdrction
               2 This section shall apply to and be enforceable upon public property and on
                  private property that is used or intended for use by the public

1   1.20.090 Paratlet Parking-Required-Exception

No person shatt stand or park a vehicte on a roadway other than parattet with the edge of
the roadway, headed in the direction of lawfuttraffic movement and with the right hand
wheets of the vehicte within twetve inches of the curb or edge of the roadway, except as
otherwise provided. Parking perpendicular to a curb wrthin a cui-de-sac is stlictly
prohibited.

'l 1.20.1 20 Obstructing Traff ic Prohibited


11.20.130 On-street Parking Prohibited Du ring Snow Removat/Plowing Hours

When it aS Snowing Or SnOw is On the street u ntit SnoW removal or piowing f rom pavement
edge to pavement edge is complete:




ftuF$,ere+addresse3.

      1. lt is unlawful to park or leave parked any vehicle or trailer upon the City s paved
           roads until snow removal or plowing is complete.
      2. Any vehicle parked in violation of subsection 1 of this section may be impounded
         and subject to a penalty. No person may recover any impounded vehicle without
         first paying the cost of impound and storage
      3. Vehicles which require circumventton for plowing are considered abandoned or in
         continued violation of this chapter and shall be subiect to citation. removal. and
         impoundment.
11.20.140 Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited

No person shatl park or operate a vehicte upon any pubtic property, roadway or shoulder
area forthe principat purposes of:

      1   . Greasing or repairing such vehicte, except repairs necessitated by an emergency;
      2. Setting foodstuffs or other merchandise in any business district.
      3. The primary purpose of disptaying it for sale.


11   .44.010 Viotation Deemed Misdemeanor-Penatty
It is a misdemeanor for a person to viotate any of the provisions of this titte. Any person
viotating a provision shatt, except where another penatty is provided, be punished as set
out in Section 1 .12.010 of this code.

aL!t!1 0205 ][!otalion.

Any person engaging in the unauthorized use of streets, parking tots or other areas as
provided under this chapter, shatt be tiabte for a civit penatty. Any penatty assessed may be
in addition to such other penatties as may be provided in this chapter.

"Unauthorized use of streets" or "unauthorized use" means a viotation of any restriction or
prohibition contained in this chapter or its successor.

civitPenatties: civitpenatties shatt be imposed as defined in the most recentty adopted
Fee Schedute.

11.44.O/{l Recsipt of NoticB

   A. Adjudicative Procedures.
As used in this section, "receipt of notice" means either:

       '1
            . The affixing of a notice of unauthonzed use to the vehicte atteged to have been
              emptoyed in such vlotation;or

       2. By detivery of such notice of unauthorized use to the owner or driver thereof'
Receipt of notice shatt be issued in writing by a peace officer or duty authorized code
entorcement officiat and contain not tess than the following information:
       '1
            . The name of the person m whose name such vehicte is registered;
       2. The viotation cited;
       3. The date and ptace of the violatlon;
       4. The make of the vehicle and its license number;
        5. N otice that the notice of u nauthorized use m u st be responded to; and
        6. Other information, inctuding information retated to the payments by mait or
              etectronic means.

    B. Besponsc to Notle e:
Any person to whom a notice of unauthorized use has been issued shat[ respond within ten
( 1O) business days thereof by either paying the civit penatty imposed by section
 11.2O.17O.8 of th is chapter in the manner provided by the receipt of notice, or contesting
the notice in the manner described by subsection F of this section. Faiture to request an
administrative hearing within ten (10) business days fottowing receipt of notice shall
constitute a waiver of a right to an administrative hearing and of the right to appeatthe
notice to any appticable court.

   c. A-d.iudic?.trve PjocqduJes.
Except as otherwise prescribed m this subsection (F), Satt Lake Cou nty witt f ottow the
adjudicative procedures outlaned ,n N4agna City Code when processing contested matters
retating to the unauthorized use of streets.

The notice of unauthorized use shat[ constitute prima facie evidence that the violation
atteged therein actuatty occurred. The adjudication shatt be conducted as informa[[y as the
circumstances witt attow and shatt be based on the cavil standard of a preponderance of
the evidence.

The burden to prove any defense shatt be upon the person raising such defense. The
administrative taw judge may f ind that no unauthorized use occurred and dismiss the
notice.

lf the administrative taw judge f ind s that an unauthorized use occurred but one or more of
the defenses set forth in this section is applicabte, they may dismiss the notice and release
the owner or driver from tiabitity thereunder. Such defenses are:

       1. At the time of the receipt of the notice, possession of the subject vehicte had
           been acquired rn viotation of the criminal laws of the State;

       2. Compliance with the subject ordinances woutd have presented an imminent
           inju ry to person s or property;

       3. lf the administratrve taw judge f inds that the owner of the vehicle is deceased but
           was living when the notice was issued:

       4. lf the administrative law.iudge f inds that the vehicle was sotd with the originat
           license ptates on, and the notice of unauthorized use was received prior to the
           sate, provided the sate is reported to the Utah Division of Motor Vehicles and the
           bitt o{ sate js provided within twenty {20) days of receipt of the notice;

lf the administrative taw judge f ind s that an unauthorized use occurred but one or more of
the defenses set forth in this section is a pptica bte, the ad m inistrative taw judge may reduce
the penatty associated therewith, but in no event shal[ such penatty be reduced betow the
sum of twenty-five dottars ($25.00). Such defenses are:
       1. The subject vehicl.e was mechanicatty incapabte of being moved from such
          tocation; provided, however, such defense shatt not appty to any vehicte which
          remains at such location in excess of six (6) hours;

       2. Any markings. signs or other indicia of parking use regutation were not ctearty
          visibte or comprehensible;

       3. At the time of the notice a responsibte person recelvmg such notice of
          unauthorized use had, but faited to property disptay, a speciaI disabitity group
          ticense ptate or ptacard that was vatid and retevant to the notice. However, the
          administrative taw judge may not reduce the associated civil, penatty betow the
          minimum penatty amount Set forth in Utah Code Ann. S 41-1 a- 1306, or its
          successor section;

lf the administrative taw judge finds that an unauthorized use occurred and no appticabte
defense exists, the administrative taw judge may enter into an agreement with a person
who has received notice for the timety or periodic payment of the appticabte penatty.

lf the administrative taw judge and a person who has received notice are unabte to resotve
the notice under the prior subsection, the administrative taw judge may refer the matter to
the sal.t Lake county District Attorney to commence a civiI action to compeI enforcement
of the notice in a court of competent jurisdiction.

lf the penatty imposed pursuant to this chapter remains unsatisfied after forty ( 40) days
from the receipt of notice of unauthorized use, or ten ( 10) days f rom such date as may have
been agreed to by the administrative law judge, the County may use such lawf uI means as
are avaitabte to cotlect such penatty, inctuding costs and attorney fees.
