MAGNA CITY COUNCIL
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-23 DATE: December 9, 2025
AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL ENACTING SECTION 15.08.011 OF THE
MAGNA CITY MUNICIPAL CODE TO ADOPT THE 2006 EDITION OF THE INTERNATIONAL
WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE

WHEREAS, in accordance with H.B. 48, effective January 1, 2026, municipalities are encouraged to
adopt the 2006 Edition of the Utah Wildland-Urban Interface Code (“UWUIC”) and a corresponding map
depicting those areas within their boundaries that are subject to UWUIC; and

WHEREAS, adoption of the 2006 edition of the International Wildland-Urban Interface Code as
currently amended by the Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands, regulating and governing the mitigation
of hazard to life and property from the intrusion of fire from wildland exposures, fire from adjacent structures
and prevention of structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels in Magna City; and

WHEREAS, the Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the City to adopt the 2006
edition of the International Wildland-Urban Interface Code;

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL AS
FOLLOWS:

1. International Wildland-Urban Interface Code, 2006 edition, including adopted Appendix
Chapters, as published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Wildland- Urban
Interface Code of Magna City, in the State of Utah for regulating and governing the mitigation of hazard to life
and property from the intrusion of fire from wildland exposures, fire from adjacent structures and prevention
of structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of
said Wildland- Urban Interface Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out
in this ordinance, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in Section 2 of this
ordinance.

2. Section 15.08.011 of the Magna City Municipal Code is enacted to read as follows:

15.08.011 2006 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code

The 2006 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code along with any amendments shall apply

to those areas within the City that the Council designates as wildland-urban interface areas.

3. Severability: If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this ordinance is
unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this ordinance, or specific application of this ordinance, shall
be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full force and effect.

4, That nothing in this ordinance or in the Wildland-Urban Interface Code hereby adopted shall be
construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred,
or any cause or causes of action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed as cited in
Section 2 of this ordinance; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or
affected by this ordinance.

5. Direction to Mayor and Staff: The Mayor and staff are authorized and directed to take such steps

as may be needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law, including but not limited to
compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711; and (b) to finalize and post the ordinance to
Municode, including but not limited to making non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and
numbering errors.
6. Effective Date: This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its posting.
ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the Magna City Council on this 9 day of
December 2025.
MAGNACIT
(Eri May

ATTEST:

Diana Baun, City Recorder ia perover! as to tom +
Voting:
Mayor Barney voting
Council Member Hull voting
Council Member Pierce voting
Council Member Prokopis __ voting Lena Cou nce
Council Member Sudbury __ voting

Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code §10-3-

711:

Deremicer 10,2025
rr
Effective date of ordinance: ECE miper 10,2029
2

SUMMARY OF
MAGNA CITY
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-23
On December 9, 2025, the Magna City Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-O-23 to enact
Chapter 15.08.011 of the Magna City Municipal Code in accordance with H.B. 48.
OI?
YY
y: Erie 7May
ATTEST: .
-” Baun, City Recorder AME
Voting:
Mayor Barney voting Legal Coun se|
Council Member Hull voting
Council Member Pierce voting
Council Member Prokopis _ voting
Council Member Sudbury __ voting
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-23 is available in the office of the Magna City
Recorder, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah 84123.
3
