                  COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AGENCY OF MAGNA

                                  RESOLUTION NO. ro2026-01

        A RESOLUTION APPROVING AND ADOPTING THE COMMUNITY
        REINVESTMENT PROJECT AREA PLAN FOR THE BROADWAY
        COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT PROJECT AREA.

         WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the Utah Limited Purpose Local Government
 Entities - Community Reinvestment Agency Act (the "Act"), specifically Utah Code Annotated
 ("UCA") Title l7C, Chapter 5, the Community Reinvestment Agency of Magna (the "Agency")
 adopted a resolution on August 17, 2022 designating a survey area, which was to become the
 Broadway Community Reinvestment Project Area ("Project Area"), and calling for the
 preparation ofa project area plan; and

        WHEREAS, the draft Project Area Plan (the "Draft Plan"), having been prepared for the
Project Area pursuant to UCA $ l7C-5-105, the Agency held, on January 27,2026, a duly noticed
public hearing pursuant to UCA $ l7C-5-104 to allow public comment on the Draft plan and
whether it should be revised, approved, or rejected; and to receive all written and hear all oral
objections to the Draft Plan; and

        WHEREAS, having received and heard all commentary on and objections, orally and in
writing, to the Draft Plan submitted for its consideration, the Agency has passed uptn such
objections as it has received and has made such modifications, u-"nd-Lnts, and/or emendations
to the Draft Plan as it deems appropriate, if any; and

         WHEREAS, the Agency has made relevant findings conceming the amount of opposition,
if any, to the Draft Plan by owners of real property within the project Area.

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE
COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AGENCY OF MAGNA AS FOLLOWS:

1. Legal Description.
       The boundaries of the Project Area are described in the Project Area plan, attached hereto
as Exhibit A.


2. The Agency's Purposes and Intent with Respect to the project Area.
       The purposes and intent of the Agency with respect to the Project Area are as follows:

       2.1- To satisfu the purposes of the Act, as defined therein, by promoting, creating, and/or
retaining jobs through the planning, design, development, construction, rehabiliition, or business
relocation within the Project Area, as well as the provision of office, industrial; manufacturing,
warehousing, distribution, parking, public, or other facilities, or other improvements that benefit
the state or a community;



                                                                                            Page I
        2.2. to increase the City's tax base as well as its commercial front so as to improve both
opportunity and quality of life for all of its citizens;

       2.3. to promote, encourage, and bring to fruition, the development within the Project
Area of a commercial development comprised of up-scale, reputable commercial concerns;

        2.4. to stimulate the economy within the Project Area and in the surrounding area;
        2.5. to provide for the installation of needed infrastructure, if and as necessary, for
development within the Project Area;

        2.6. to take any or all additional steps which may be appropriate or necessary to promote
or further the aim of improving the Project Area (and, indirectly, of surrounding areas).

3. Designation, Adoption, and Incorporation of the Plan.
        The Draft Plan for the Project Area (attached as Exhibit A) is hereby designated the
Official Planfor the Broadway Community Reinvestment Project Area (the "Official Plan"), and
is incorporated herein by this reference.

     The Agency hereby officially approves and adopts the Official Plan for the Broadway
Community Reinvestment Project Area.

4. Required Findings.
        4.1.A need exists to effectuate a public pu{pose; to wit, the exercise of the statutorily
enacted community reinvestment mechanism for the benefit of the citizens of Magna.

         4.2. Benefit to the public shall accrue from the execution of the Official Plan, as each
project undertaken thereunder shall be subject to the analysis described in Utah Code $ l7C-5-
I 0s(2).


        4.3.    The adoption and carrying out of the Official Plan is economically sound and
feasible.

        4.4. The Official Plan conforms to the City's General Plan
        4.5. Carrying out the Official Plan will promote the public peace, health, safety, and
welfare of the City and its residents.

5. Submission of the Official PIan to the City Council for Adoption by Ordinance.
        5.1.    Pursuant to Utah Code $$ l7C-5-104 & -109, the Agency Board hereby submits
the Official Plan to the City Council for review and adoption.




                                                                                            Page 2
 6. Recording and Transmittal.
         6.1. Pursuant to Utah Code $ 17c-5-lll, Agency Staff are hereby directed and
 authorized to take the following actions within 30 days after adoption of the Official Plan by the
 City Council:

                 a. to record with the Salt Lake County Recorder a document containing a
 description of the land within the Project Area, a statement that the Official Plan for the Project
 Area has been adopted; and the date of its adoption by the Magna City Council; and

                 b.     to transmit a copy of the description of the land within the Project Area, a
copy of the City ordinance adopting the Official Plan, and a map indicating the boundaries of the
Project Area to each of the following: (i) the auditor and assessor of the county in which the
Project Area is located; (ii) the officer or officers performing the function of auditor or assessor
for each taxing entity, if any, that does not use the county assessment roll or collect its taxes
through the county; (iii) the legislative body or governing board of each taxing entity; (iv) the State
Tax Commission; and (v) the State Board of Education.

7. Execution of the Plan.
          7.1. Following adoption of the Official Plan by the City Council, the Agency shall
proceed to carry out the Plan.

8. Directions to Agency Staff.
          8.1. The Agency staff are hereby directed and authorized to take all such actions as
necessary to effectuate the purposes and aims of this resolution.

9. Effective Date
    9.1. This Resolution shall take effect upon its adoption.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED on the 27th day of January 2026.


                                                      CO                REINVESTMENT
                                                      AG            OF MAGNA



                                                                    BURY, CHAIR
Attest:



DIANA BAUN, SECRETARY



                                                                                              Page 3
                  EXHIBIT A

Broadway Community Reinvestment Project Area Plan




                                                    Page 4
MAGNA BROADWAY COMMUNIW REINVESTMENT PROJECT
                 AREA PLAN

                   FINAL
         Adopted on Janua ry 21, 2026




                     1
Section L: lntroduction

This Project Area Plan describes the boundaries of the Project Area and describes the increased
development within the Proiect Area as contemplated by the AtencY.

The Redevelopment Agenq/ of Magna City (the "Agency') is looking at parcel nos. 14283270070000 and
14283270250000 ("Proiect Area") as an area for economic development and Srowth in the city's property
tax base and potentially sales tax revenues. The Agency has prepared this plan ("Plan") to describe the
anticipated development within the Project Area. The Agency iscurrently undercontractto purchasethe
western parcel in the Proiect Area


This Plan has been prepared per utah state code considering the economic impacts of anticipated
commercial, retail, educational, and housing development as it relates to a return on investment for the
community while also providing a return for the development community to attract desirable
development to the Project Area. The current property is a for a surplus reliSious chapel building and
                                                                                                        a

                                                                                                  of the
detention basin parcel owned by Salt Lake county. vacant land is not the highest    and  best use

property within the Project Area. The goal of the Proiect Area is to develop mixed use or higher density
                                                                                                potential
residential housing units that will support the surrounding community. This Plan describes the
future development within the Project Area

                                                                              Limited Purpose Local
This plan follows utah code Annotated (ucA) Title 17c chapters 1 and 5 of the utah
Government Entities -  community Reinvestment Agency Act (the "Acr). Requirements of the Act include
public notice and hearing obligations. The Agency has followed all applicable requirements of the Act
                                                                                                      in

preparing and adopting this Plan.

                                                                                             impact of the
This document is prepared in good faith as a current reasonable estimate of the economic
                                                                                      circumstances may
expected development within the Proiect Area. Fundamental economic and other
                                                                                   information contained
influence the actual impact. Based on the Agency's reasonable assumptions, the
                                                                                        within the Pro.iect
within this report represents the reasonable expectations for project area development
                                                                                      document or in the
Area. The Agency makes no guarantee that the projections contained in this Plan
 BudgetfortheProjectAreaaccuratelyreflectthefuturedevelopmentwithintheProjectArea.Further,
 theAgencyspecificallyreservesallpowersgrantedtoitundertheAct,asmaybeamended;thisPlanshall
                                                                                    Act'
 not be interpreted to limit or restrict the powers of the Agency as granted by the



 section 2: Boundaries of the community Reinvestment Project Area
 (17c-s-1os(1))
                                                                                     as shown on the map
 The project Area encompasses parcel nos. 1,4283210070000 and L42A327O250O00
 attachedheretoasAPPENDlxA(the,,ProjectAreaMap,,).TheProjectAreaisentirelylocatedwithinthe



                                                     2
 legal boundaries of Magna City. lt is directly south of lnterstate 201 and west of interstate 85. The property
 encompasses approximately 4.33 acres of land as recorded in the Salt Lake County Recorder's office.


 The land within the Project Area is currently owned by the Church of iesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints
 and by salt Lake county. The Agency is currently under contract to purchase the surplus church parcel.


 A legal description of land within the Project Area is attached as APPENDIX B


 Section 3: Project Area Characteristics and How They Will Be Affected
 by Project Area Development (17C-5-105(2))

 Land Uses in the Project Area
 Parcel no. 14283270070000 of the project Are is zoned pr (public lnstitutions) and parcel no.
 L428327o25000o of the Project Area is zoned R-1-6 (single family-residential zone) as shown on the zoning
 map attached hereto as APPENOIX C. Currently, the City zoning and General Plan do not permit residential
 uses in Pl zoning, nor do they permit high-density housing in R-L-6 zoning. Actual development-including
 building locations, layouts, and uses will likely differ from this concept plan. All contemplated
 development must follow proper planning and zoning ordinances and requirements and be approved
                                                                                                           by
 Magna city. Nothing in this pran usurps or supersedes the city's rand use authority. The Agency
 anticipates that development within the project Area will involve zoning changes.

Layout of Principal Streets in the project Area
The area is bounded on the West by South Broadway street which is an existing arterial
                                                                                                and provides
adequate access to the Project Area for the anticipated development.

Population in the Project Area
currently, there are no residents within the POect Area. However, the anticipated
                                                                                      development includes
new residential units. This anticipated deveropment wi provide additional housing
                                                                                       in Magna city.

Building lntensities in the proiect Area
Development in the Project Area is and wiI be required to foflow aI Magna
                                                                                   city pranning and zoning
ordinances as they currentry exist or that might be amended in the future,
                                                                              incruding design, density, and
development standards' The anticipated project area development includes higher-density
                                                                                                or multi-use
housing and other commercial/retail space or amenities.


Section 4: Standards That Will Guide Community Development (L7C_5_
10s(3))

Development Objectives
The Agency and the city desire the project Area to deverop into
                                                                  additional housing for Magna city, along
with the potential for comprementary mixed-use deveropment. utah currentry
                                                                                  faces a housing shortage.


                                                     3
The development of additional housing and retail projects within the Project Area is intended to supply
cost-effective housing and commercial needs that will contribute to the economic vitality of this area of
Magna City.


DesiF Obiectives
Eventual developers will be held to the highest standards per the city Seneral plan, planning and zoning
ordinances, and other applicable building codes and ordinances ofthe City.


All development will be submitted to the city via the normal development approval process, which
includes site plans to include development data and any other appropriate material describing the
development, land coverage, setbacks, heights, off-street parkinB to be provided, and any other
information as deemed appropriate by the City.

Approvals
                                                                                                  plans for any
The Agenc.y may seek the contractual right to approve any and all design and construction
development within the Project Area to ensure any and all development within the Project
                                                                                              Area is
consistent with the Project Area Plan. Nothing in this Plan usurps any aspect of the city's
                                                                                            land use

authority.


Section 5: How the Purposes of the Act will be Attained (17C-5-105(4))

The Act contains the following definition of Project Area Development:

        "Proiect area development" means activity within a project area that' as determined by
                                                                                        for the
        the board, encourages, promotes, or provides development or redevelopment
        purpose of implementing a projed area plan, including:

                   (a)       promoting, creating, or retaining public or private iobs within the state or a
         community;
                   (b)       providing office, manufacturing, warehousing, distribution' parking' or
         other facilities or im Provements;
                   (c)       planning, designing, demolishing, clearing, constructing' rehabilitating'
         or remediatinB environmental issues;
                (d) providing residential, commercial, industrial, public, or other structures
         or spaces, including recreational and other facilities incidental or appurtenant to
                                                                                             the

         structures or sPaces;
                   (e)       altering,improving,modernizing,demolishing,reconstructing'or
         rehabilitating existing structures;
                  (f) providing open space, including streets or other public grounds or space
         around buildings;
                G) providing public or private buildings, infrastructure' structures' or
             improvements;


                                                          4
                (h)      relocating a business;
                (i)      improving public or private recreation areas or other public grounds;
                (j)      eliminating blight or the causes of blight;
                (k)      redevelopment as defined under the law in effect before May L,2006; or
                (l)      any activity described in Subsections (47)(a) through (k) outside of a
        proiect area that the board determines to be a benefit to the project area.

        (Utah Code S 77 C-L-1.02{{47\\.

The creation of the Project Area furthers the attainment of the purposes of Title 17C by addressing the
following objectives:

Provision of development that enhances economic and quality of life basis. The development of the
Project Area will provide numerous economic and community benefits including the creation of a number
of relatively affordable housing units and the generation of a significant amount of new personal and real
property tax revenues for the City and the other taxing entities.

Stimulation of associated business and economic activity by the development. This Project will
meaningfully enhance the City's tax base as well as all other taxing entities through personal and real
property. The anticipated development of the Project Area will potentially lead to increased diversity of
the tax base resources available for performing governmental services, increased support for efficient use
of undeveloped land within Magna City, and increased potential for appropriate public and private
development efforts in the community.


Section 6: How the Plan is Consistent with the City's General Plan (17C-
s-10s(s)

This Plan and the development contemplated within the Project Area will conform to the City General
Plan, Land Use Regulations, and the Magna City Development Code. Magna's General Plan identifies the
need for job opportunities and affordable housing options. The development ofthe Project Area promotes
these goals.


Section 7: Description of the Specific Projects That Are the Object of the
Proposed Community Development (17C-5-105(7))

The proposed development within the Proiect Area will be higher-density or mixed-use housingand
potentially ancillary retail. This proposed use meets the objectives of the Agency, Magna City, and the
Magna Municipal Code. Personal and real property tax generation is desired by all taxing entities. As part
ofthis development, the eventual developer may be requiored to make improvements to roads and utility
infrastructure, which will benefit surrounding properties in addition to enabling development of the
Project Area.
Section 8: Selection of Developers/Participants (17C-5-105(8))

The ABency and City will select or approve such development that is brought forth by a developer that
meets the development objectives as set forth in this Plan. The Agency and City reserve the right to
approve or reject any development plan(s) that do not meet the intent of this Project Area.


The Agency and City will ensure that all development conforms to the Pro.iect Area Plan and is approved
by the City. All development opportunities will need to be vetted by the City and will include development
plans and financial information to support the viability and sustainability of the proiect and the developer
to fulfill all obligations that could or will be required. This process will include City staff and third-party
providers to review financial statements, verify benefits of the development to the City, review
engineering studies, prepare appraisal reports, etc.


Section 9: Reasons for the Selection of the Project Area (17C-5-105(9))

The development of this area was enabled by the availability of parcel nos. 14283270070000 and
14283270250000 which show high potential for groMh in an area that needs additional high density or
mixed use housing.


Section 10: Descriptions of Conditions Existing in the Area (17C-5-
10s(10))

The Project Area consists of approximately 4.33 acres as shown on the Project Area Map. The Agenq/
wants to encourage development of otherwise surplus or vacant property within an established Magna
neighborhood. The development within the Project Area will grow the tax base of MaBna City and the
local economy to provide greater funding sources to continue to meet the demand and services of City
residents.


Section 11: Descriptions of lncentives (17C-5-105(11))

The Agency may make expenditures and offer incentives as allowed by the Act. As noted above, the
ABency is cu rrently u nder contract to purchase the western parcel in the Project Area. By purchasingthis
parcel, the Agency gains the ability to encourage desirable development of a parcel that would otherwise
remain underutilized.


All incentives and payments to participants, land owners, or developers will be on a post-performance
basis and will be offered only according to the terms of a written participation agreement that adequately
protects the Agency and the taxing entities by ensuring performance by the participant prior to the
payment of any reimbursement or incentive from the Agency to the participant. Subject to the provisions


                                                       6
of the Act, the Agency may agree to pay for eligible development costs and other items from such tax
revenues for the period the Agency and the taxing entities may deem appropriate under the
circumstances.



Section L2: Results of the Public Benefit Analysis (17C-5-105(12) and -
10s(13))

The Agency has performed an analysis of the public benefits of the anticipated development within the
Project Area. ln summary, the Agenry's public benefit analysis found that the creation of the Project Area,
the provision of certain incentives, payments, and infrastructure reimbursements, and other Agency
activities as described in this Plan and allowed by the Act will provide significant public benefits to the
Project Area and the greater Magna City area. The Agency believes that the expenditure of project area
funds to encourage the development of the Project Area and provide significant benefits to Magna City
and the other taxinB entities.


Section L3: Other lnformation (17C-5-105(1a) and -105(15))

There are no existing buildings or uses in the community reinvestment project area that are included in,
or eligible for inclusion in, the National Register of Historic Places or the State Register.

The Project Area will not be subject to a Taxing Entity Committee; instead, the Agency anticipates
potentially entering into interlocal agreements with the taxing entities in order to obtain additional
funding for the anticipated project area development.




                                                       7
APPENDIX A         - Project Area Map
                            Area shown in red is the proposed Project Area

                                                                                                       I I

                                                      Pt
                                                      t.
                                                                                          T
                                                                                                               ,l




             H'
                                                                                  J                                 a.


                                                            I                                     I


                   - _ri                              I                                               ,/
                                                                                                           a
                                                                                              a

                       ,1

             i-l
                                                                                      I


    J                                                                   rt                                                   l
                       I
                                                                             'I
                                 I




I                                                                                                     IE-,-3."
                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                         L
                                                                                                                         I

        -l                                                .-)




 iffit                                                                        i   ur
                                                                                                                    +
        a

                                                                    .;ffi'r                                                          t



                                            0         100       :D0fi
                                            --




                                                  8
APPENDIX B - Project Area Legal Description

Parcel no L428327OO7 OOOO
coM631.07FTW&222.s9FTSFRCENSEC28T15R2W5rMERE302.5FTS353.4FTS89^53',W302.5
FT N 353.4 FT TO BEG 2,4 AC


Parcel no 1428327 0250000
BEGS89^59',13"WL64.37FT&S0^01'08"E32.96FT&S0^01',08',E130.79FTFRCENSEC28,T15,R
25,SLM;S0^01'08"E516.43FT;S89^53'W149FT;N0^07"WlCA.57Fr;S89^53'WL7.5Fr;N4L2.2
FT; E 166.54 FTTO BEG. 1.93 AC M OR L.




                                         9
APPENDIXC-ZoningMap
                                                                                 R-r-t!




                                                                                                        1.1-10




                 parcel no L4283?7 0O7 0W0
                                            I Iil
                                                parcel no 1428327 O2sOonO




                              II
                                                       ractuqfi
                                        o




I
II                            I II
                                                                     t




II
lrlGrtrtrIo. 3:a726 Pfl
                              II
                              II
                                 II
                                 IT
                                                                                          l: I,77J
 c    ISD (b.!d.r
                              R-'ta
                                                                                      0lI  og!               0l€ rt
                              R-t-t0
E e-".t 1StCol                                                              c         0.03 0.c6                c 1 lr.
                              R-2-6.5
Zd-g II.SD)
S* +u:.
Ipr
                          E friir-.,. -rr L5d (SLCo)
                            tffi-trut d.                                    o   h€-          .F--    qa ad       rtia




                                                          10
