Magna City, Utah .
RESOLUTION NO.: R2026-29 DATE: May 12, 2026
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL (THE “COUNCIL”) APPROVING
AN INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN MAGNA CITY AND WEST
VALLEY CITY TO CONTRACT FOR THE DESIGN OF THE RECONSTRUCTION
PROJECT AT 7200 WEST BETWEEN THE SR-201 NORTH FRONTAGE ROAD AND 2100
SOUTH
WHEREAS, Magna City (“Magna”), and West Valley City (“‘“WVC”) are public agencies as defined |
in Title 11, Chapter 13 of the Utah Code (the “Interlocal Cooperation Act”); }
WHEREAS, Section 11-13-202 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act provides that any two or more
public agencies may enter into an agreement for joint or cooperative action; and |
|
WHEREAS, Magna and WVC desire to enter into an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (the
“Agreement”) for the design of the reconstruction of a portion of 7200 West between the SR-201
North Frontage Road and 2100 South (the “Project”); and
WHEREAS, the Agreement, attached hereto as Attachment A, sets forth the rights, duties, and |
obligations of Magna and WVC; and ,
WHEREAS, the Council has determined that approval of the Agreement will serve the best |
interests of Magna and the general public. ,
|
|
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL as follows:
SECTION 1. That the Agreement is hereby approved in substantially the form attached, subject only
to mihor administrative or clerical corrections or substitutions as approved by the City Attorney, and
that the Mayor is authorized to execute and deliver the Agreement.
. 2
SECTION 2. That the Mayor and staff are authorized and directed to take such steps as may be |
needed: (a) for this Resolution to become effective under Utah law; and (b) to finalize and post the
Resolution to MuniCode, including but not limited to making non-substantive edits to correct any
scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.
SECTION 3. Severability: If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
Resolution is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Resolution, or specific application
of this Resolution, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full force and effect.
SECTION 4. Effective Date: This Resolution shall become effective immediately.
|
|
|

|
|
APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 12" day of May, 2026, by the Magna City Council, Magna City,
Utah.
BY:
SUDBURY, MAYOR
ATTEST
“rome Dar
DIANA BAUN
CITY RECORDER
VOTE BY COUNCIL: AYE NAY
Council Member George voting X
Council Member Jensen voting K
Council Member Olsen voting _X
Council Member Pierce voting X
Council Member Prokopis voting ¥

Attachment A
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement Between
Magna City and West Valley City

|

|

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|

i i ( i

‘INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
Between ‘ }
MAGNA CITY |
and
WEST VALLEY CITY
This Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (this “Agreement”) is made and entered into this |
day of , 2026, with an effective date as provided in Section 14 of this
Agreement, by and between Magna City, a municipal corporation of the State of Utah (“Magna”);
and West Valley City, a municipal corporation of the State of Utah (““WVC”). WVC and Magna
City are sometimes referred to collectively as the “Parties” and either may be referred to
individually as a “Party,” all as governed by the context in which such words are used.
WITNESSETH: |
WHEREAS, Magna and WVC are public agencies as defined by Title 11, Chapter 13,
UTAH CODE ANN. (the “Interlocal Act”). Section 11-13-202 of the Interlocal Act provides that any
two or more public agencies may enter into an agreement with one another for joint or cooperative
action; and *
,

WHEREAS, Magna is a member of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
(“MSD”), a special district and political subdivision of the State of Utah. For the purposes of this
Agreement, the Parties agree that the MSD may act on behalf of Magna as Magna’s authorized
agent, and that the MSD may take actions required of Magna with respect to the subject matter of
this Agreement; and

WHEREAS, the Parties wish to contract for the design of the reconstruction of a portion
of 7200 West between the SR-201 North Frontage Road and 2100 South (the “Project”); and |

WHEREAS, Magna and WVC desire to enter into an agreement, which sets forth the rights, |
obligations and responsibilities of each Party for the Project. ,

|
AGREEMENT:
}

NOW, THEREFORE, in reliance on the stated recitals, which are incorporated herein by
reference, and for and in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements hereafter set forth,
the mutual benefits to the Parties to be derived herefrom, and for.other valuable consideration, the |
receipt and sufficiency of which the Parties acknowledge, it is hereby agreed as follows:

1. WVC Obligations. Except as provided in Section 2 of this Agreement, WVC shall |
contract with a consultant to design the Project. WVC shall be the primary point of contact with
the consultant. WVC will consult with Magna in making Project decisions and will give Magna |
deference in making decisions within the jurisdictional area of Magna provided that such |
deference does not increase the cost of the Project at WVC’s expense. WVC shall diligently '
cooperate with Magna to ensure that the decisions are sound and made in a timely manner.

Page 1 of.7
|

WVC shall be responsible for 50% of the cost of the Project. WVC’s obligation shall not exceed
$146,322.88. :
2. Magna Obligations. Magna shall be responsible for 50% of the cost of the
Project. Magna’s obligation shall not exceed $146,322.87. The Parties agree that upon receiving
a project related invoice, WVC will invoice Magna for Magna’s share of that invoice as defined
above. Magna will pay WVC within 30 days after receiving any invoice from WVC.
3. Approval and Coordination. WVC shall obtain Magna approval prior to making
) any decisions concerning the Project within Magna city limits. Magna shall cooperate and respond
| to all requests for approval promptly after receipt of any such request and shall not unreasonably
withhold, condition, or delay any approval required under this paragraph or elsewhere in this
| Agreement.
4. Services Performed in a Professional and Reasonable Manner. WVC shall perform
project management in a professional, reasonable and responsive manner in compliance with all
applicable laws. Subject to the foregoing, the exact nature of how the services are to be performed,
and any other matters incidental to providing services shall remain with WVC. All construction
will comply with applicable law.
5. Retaining Consultants and Contractors. WVC will consult with Magna and
consider input from Magna in selecting consultants.
6. Termination. If the design and construction of the Project are not completed by the
end of the term as set forth herein, and WVC desires to extend this Agreement, WVC shall request
an extension from Magna as soon as reasonably possible. The request shall be in writing and shall
indicate the reason for the request and the length of the extension desired. Magna shall not |
unreasonably withhold, condition, or delay its acceptance of a request by WVC for an extension. |
Within 30 days of receipt of such written request, Magna shall notify WVC in writing of its intent
to accept or reject the request, and the Parties shall amend this Agreement with a new termination
date if accepted. This Agreement may be terminated, for cause, upon 90 days written notice to the
non-terminating Party or Parties if the other Party or Parties fail to cure the default identified in ,
the written notice within the 90 day notice period.
7. Liability and Indemnification. Magna and WVC are governmental entities under the Utah
Governmental Immunity Act (the “Act”), UTAH CODE ANN. § 63G-7-101. Consistent with the |
terms of the Act, and as provided herein, it is mutually agreed that each Party is responsible and
liable for its own wrongful or negligent acts which are committed by it or by its agents, officers or
employees. No Party waives any defenses otherwise available under the Act nor does any Party
waive any limits of liability currently provided by the Act.
8. Interlocal Cooperation Act Requirements. In satisfaction of the requirements of the
Interlocal Act, and in connection with this Agreement, the Parties agree as follows:
(a) This Agreement shall be approved by each Party pursuant to Section 11-13-
202.5 of the Interlocal Act;
Page 2 of 7

|
|
(b) This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance with 2
applicable law by a duly authorized attorney on behalf of each Party, pursuant |
to Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act;
(c) A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall be filed with
keeper of records of each Party, pursuant to Section 11-13-209 of the Interlocal
Act;
(d) Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each Party shall be |
responsible for its own costs of any action taken pursuant to this Agreement,
and for any budgeting and financing of such costs; and
(e) No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement. To the extent
that this Agreement requires administration other than as set forth herein, it shall
be administered by a joint board consisting of the City Manager of WVC, a }
representative of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, and the City
Manager of Magna City. No real or personal property shall be acquired jointly
by the Parties as a result of this Agreement. To the extent that a Party acquires, }
holds or disposes of any real or personal property for use in the joint or
cooperative undertaking contemplated by this Agreement, such Party shall do
: so in the same manner that it deals with other property of such Party.
r
9. Notices. Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be deemed
sufficient if given by a communication in writing, and shall be deemed to have been received (a)
upon personal delivery or actual receipt thereof, (b) within three days after such notice is deposited
in the United States mail, postage pre-paid, and certified and addressed as follows, or (c) upon
receipt of an e-mail notice addressed to the respective Parties as follows:
|
If to Magna City: Magna City
Mayor Mick Sudbury
8952 West Magna Main Street
Magna, Utah 84044
With a copy to: Smith Hartvigsen
Nathan Bracken :
City Attorney
257 East 200 South, Suite 500
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
Ifto WVC: Ifo Pili
City Manager
West Valley City
3600 Constitution Boulevard
West Valley City, Utah 84119
With a copy to: J. Eric Bunderson
City Attorney
West Valley City
3600 Constitution Boulevard
Page 3 of 7

|
West Valley City, Utah 84119 :
E-mail: eric.bunderson@wvc-ut.gov
10. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Utah
both as to interpretation and performance.
11. Resolution of Claims and Disputes, In any action brought to enforce the terms of |
this Agreement, the Parties agree that the appropriate venue shall be the Third Judicial District |
Court in and for Salt Lake County, Utah.
12. Entire Agreement. This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the
Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and no statements, promises, or inducements
made by either Party or agents for either Party that are not contained in this written Agreement
shall be binding or valid; and this Agreement may not be enlarged, modified, or altered except in |
, writing, and signed by the Parties. }
13. Amendments, This Agreement may be amended, changed, modified or altered only
by an instrument in writing which shall be (a) approved by the governing bodies of WVC, the
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, and Magna City, including the adoption of any
necessary resolutions or ordinances by the Parties authorizing the execution of any amendment,
change, modification or alteration of this Agreement by the appropriate person or persons for
WVC and Magna, respectively, (b) executed by a duly authorized official of each of the Parties, ,
(c) submitted to an attorney for each Party that is authorized to represent said Party for review as
to proper form and compliance with applicable law, pursuant to Section 11-13-202.5 of the |
Interlocal Act, and the execution by each respective attorney, and (d) filed with the keeper of the
records of each Party.
14. Term of Agreement. This Agreement shall take effect immediately upon the
completion of the following: (a) the approval of the Agreement by the adoption of a resolution by
| the governing body of the Parties, (b) the execution of this Agreement by a duly authorized
official of each of the Parties, (c) the submission of this Agreement to an attorney for each Party
- that is authorized to represent said Party for review as to proper form and compliance with
applicable law, pursuant to Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act, and the approval of each
respective attorney, and (d) the filing of a copy of this Agreement with the keeper of records of
each Party. This Agreement shall terminate on the earlier of (i) the completion of the Project or
(ii) within three (3) years after the execution of this Agreement as set forth herein. Except as
otherwise provided in Section 6 there is no permissible method or methods to be employed to
accomplish the partial or complete termination of this Agreement.
15. Severability. If any provision hereof shall be held or deemed to be or shall, in fact,
be inoperative or unenforceable as applied in any particular case in any jurisdiction or in all
jurisdictions, or in all cases because it conflicts with any other provision or provisions hereof or |
any constitution or statute or rule of public policy, or for any other reason, such circumstances |
shall not have the effect of rendering the provision in question inoperative or unenforceable in any |
other case or circumstance, or of rendering any other provision or provisions herein contained
invalid, inoperative, or unenforceable to any extent whatever. The invalidity of any one or more |
Page 4 of 7

|
|
phrases, sentences, clauses, or paragraphs herein contained, shall not affect the remaining portions
hereof, or any part thereof. ,
16. Additional Provisions. The following provisions also are integral to this |
Agreement:

(a) Titles and Captions. All section or subsection titles or captions herein are
for convenience only. Such titles and captions shall not be deemed part of this Agreement and
shall in no way define, limit, augment, extend or describe the scope, content or intent of any part
or parts hereof.

(b) Pronouns and Plurals. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun
used herein shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter forms, and the singular :
form of nouns, pronouns and verbs shall include the plurals and vice versa.

(c) Applicable Law. The provisions of this Agreement shall be governed by
and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Utah.

(d) Integration. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the
parties pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes all prior agreements and
understandings pertaining thereto.

(e) Time. Time is the essence hereof.

() Survival. All agreements, covenants, representations and warranties :
contained herein shall survive the execution of this Agreement and shall continue in full force and |
effect throughout the term of this Agreement. }

(g) Waiver. No failure by either party to insist upon the strict performance of
any covenant, duty, agreement or condition of this Agreement or to exercise any right or remedy
consequent upon a breach thereof shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or of such or any
other covenant, agreement, term or condition. Any party may, by notice delivered in the manner
provided in this Agreement, but shall be under no obligation to, waive any of its rights or any
conditions to its obligations hereunder, or any duty, obligation or covenant of any other party. No
waiver shall affect or alter the remainder of this Agreement but each and every other covenant,
agreement, term and condition hereof shall continue in full force and effect with respect to any
other then existing or subsequently occurring breach.

(h) Rights and Remedies. The rights and remedies of the parties hereto shall
not be mutually exclusive, and the exercise of one or more of the provisions of this Agreement
shall not preclude the exercise of any other provision hereof.

(i) Attorney Fees. If any action, suit or proceeding is brought by a party hereto
with respect to a matter or matters covered by this Agreement, all costs and expenses of the
prevailing party incident to such proceeding, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, shall be paid by
the nonprevailing party. |

(j) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, and all of which together shall constitute |
one and the same instrument.

(kK) Severability. The provisions of this Agreement are severable and, should |
any provision hereof be void, voidable, unenforceable or invalid, such void, voidable,
unenforceable or invalid provision shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement.

qd) Cumulative Remedies. The rights and remedies of the Parties hereto shall
be construed cumulatively, and none of such rights and remedies shall be exclusive of, or in lieu
or limitation of, any other right, remedy or priority allowed by law. |

Page 5 of 7
: .

(m) Exhibits and Recitals. The Recitals set forth above and all exhibits to this
Agreement are incorporated herein to the same extent as if such items were set forth in their
entirety within the body of this Agreement.

(n) No Agency. Agents, employees or representatives of a Party shall not be
deemed to be agents, employees or representatives of the other Party.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, WVC, by a resolution duly adopted by its City Council,
caused this Agreement to be signed and attested by the Mayor, or her designee; and Magna City,
by a resolution duly adopted by its City Council, caused this Agreement to be signed by the Mayor,
or his designee; and the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, by a resolution duly adopted
by its governing board, caused this Agreement to be signed and attested by the Chair.

MAGNA CITY,

By:

Mayor
ATTEST:
City Recorder
Approved as to Form and Legality:
MAGNA CITY ATTORNEY
By:
Date: S i 1D a Don,
Page 6 of 7

WEST VALLEY CITY |
By: 2.
Mayor |
ATTEST: °
a
City Recorder
Approved as to Form and Legality:
WEST VALLEY CITY ATTORNEY .
By:
Date:
|
|
|
|
|
}
|
Page 7 of 7
