                                   MAGNA CITY COUNCIL

       RESOLUTION NO. R2026-36                                DATE: June 9th.2026

A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL APPROVING AN AMENDMENT
  TO AN INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT WITH SALT LAKE COUNTY FOR GRANT
                             FUNDS

WHEREAS, Magna City is the subrecipient of pass-through funds from a U.S. Department of
Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Community Based Violence Intervention and Prevention
Initiative grant ("CVIPI grant") through the Salt Lake County Office of Homelessness and
Criminal Justice Reform ("OHCJR");

WHEREAS, Magna City and Salt Lake County, on behalf of its Sheriff s Office, entered into an
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement, effective as of July 1, 2023 (the "Agreement") to build
community capacity to address youth incidence of substance abuse and violence through an
integrated community, public health and public safety approach, funded by Magna City through
the CVIPI grant;

WHEREAS, the CVIPI grant has been extended through September 30, 2026, and has
$145,000.00 in awarded funding unexpended;

WHEREAS, an amendment to the Agreement has been prepared entitled "Amendment One ofthe
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement For The Safety Success Grant Programs," (the "Amendment")
attached hereto as "Attachment Ao" which extends the grant and adds the unexpended funding;

WHEREAS, the Magna City Council has determined that approval of the Amendment will
serve the best interests of Magna City and the general public.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL:

               l. Approval of the Amendment: The Amendment is hereby approved in the
       form attached as "Attachment A". The Amendment may be modified or revised prior to
       execution by the Mayor, provided that any such modifications or revisions do not
       substantially alter the material terms.

              2.      Direction to Mayor and Staff: The Mayor and staff are authorized and
   directed to take such ste.ps as may be needed: (a) for this Resolution to become effective under
   Utah law; and (b) to finalize and post the Resolution to MuniCode, including but not limited
   to making non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener's, formatting, and numbering errors.

              3.      Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of
   this Resolution is unconstitutionalor invalid, then such portion of this Resolution, or specific
   application of this resolution, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full
   force and effect.
             4.    Effective Date. This Resolution shall take effect immediately

APPROVED and ADOPTED this 9th day of June,2026.

MAGNA


 BY:




                       YOR


  ATTEST




>2,,;
  DIANA BAUN
  CITY RECORDER



  VOTE BY COUNCIL:
  Council Member George voting
  Council Member Jensen voting
  Council Member Olsen voting
  Council Member Pierce voting
  Council Member Prokopis voting
ATTACHMENT A
                                    AMENDMENT ONE
                                         of the
                          INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEM ENT
                        FOR THE SAFETY SUCCESS GRANT PROGRAMS
                                                between
                                           MAGNA CITY
                                               And
                                        SALT LAKE COLINTY

This Amendment One ("Amendment") is entered into and shall be effective as of the signature of the
last party to sign below, by and between Magna City, formerly Magna Metro Township, ("Magna City")
and Salt Lake County, previously assigned to Unified Police Department of Greater Salt Lake ("UPD"),
on behalf of its Sheriff s Office, a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah ("County"),
collectively referred to as the "Parties."

                                              RECITALS

WHEREAS, Magna City is the subrecipient of pass-through funds from a U.S. Department of Justice,
Office of Justice Programs, Community Based Violence Intervention and Prevention Initiative grant
("CVIPI grant") through the Salt Lake County Office of Homelessness and Criminal Justice Reform
("OHCJR");

WHEREAS, Magna City is no longer Magna Metro Township nor acting on behalf of Magna United
Communities That Care Coalition; and

WHEREAS, Magna City and UPD entered into an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement, effective as of
July l, 2023 (the "Agreement") to provide funding through the CVIPI grant to Choose Gang Free, a
program operated by the Salt Lake Area Gang Project, to help build community capacity to address
youth incidences of violence through an integrated community, public health, and public safety
approach;

WHEREAS, UPD assigned the Agreement to the County and the County accepted through an
Assignment Agreement entered into on October 7,2024;

WHEREAS, the CVIPI grant has been extended through September 30,2026, and has $145,000.00 in
awarded funding unexpended;

WHEREAS, Subparagraph 6.3 of the Agreement permits written changes to be made in the Agreement
upon the mutual consent of the Parties; and

WHEREAS, the Parties wish to extend the Agreement through September 30,2026, and amend the
Agreement to include the additional funding for 2026.

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutualdesires of the Parties expressed herein, and other
good and valuable considerations, the receipt and sufficiency of which it is hereby acknowledged, the
Parties agree as follows:


                                                   1
1. The reporting requirements outlined in Paragraph 2.2 shall be amended. Subparagraph2.2.2 shall
   be renumbered to 2.2.3 and Subparagraphs2.2.l and2.2.2 shall be amended to read as follows:

        2.2.1 Quarterly data shall be submitted by the lOth of every quarter (January 10th,
        April 10th, July 10th, and October 1Oth) to the Safety and Success Workgroup
        Coordinator which includes but is not limited to date of services provided, service
        hours, number and demographics of participants served, number and demographics
        of mentors, average case load of mentors, outcomes, and pre and post participant
        surveys.

        2.2.2 Quarterly narratives shall be submitted by the lOth of every quarter (January
        10th, April lOth, July lOth, and October l0th) to the Safety and Success
        Workgroup Coordinator which includes but is not limited to number of staff that
        received training and list of trainingsldates, type of strategies employed during the
        reporting period, types of direct services employed during the reporting period,
        descriptions on culturally specific interventions and services, descriptions of
        accomplishments highlighting one to two youth or program success stories,
        descriptions of problems or barriers and how overcame or assistance needed,
        collaboration ideas/needs/successes, and anything additional you would like to
        highlighted.

2- Paragraph 3, entitled Consideration and Paragraph 5, entitled Payment Schedule, are amended to
   include the additional funding of one hundred forty-five thousand dollars ($145,000.00) for 2026.

3. Paragraph 6.1, entitled Term, is amended to extend the Agreement through September 30,2026.

4. All Parts, Paragraphs, Attachments and other provisions of the Agreement and any prior
   amendments thereof not specifically modified by this amendment shall be the same and remain in
   full force and effect.




                                                  2
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties execute this Amendment One

                                                   SALT LAKE COUNTY:
 MAGNA


                                                   By:
 By:                                                       Mayor or Designee

                                                   Date:
  Date           0l


                                                   SHERIFF'S OFFICE APPROVAL



                                                   By:
                                                            Division Director or designee

                                                   Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:
   r,                                '+
                                                   By
                                                         Deputy District Attorney
                                                         Salt Lake County




            aurco,n&iNt


ffis,
                      batrr,n
                  U{.J |-lxme!{
Drann houm
                 q,'JrD'U-a
         dw.p


                                               3
