Diana Baun

From:                           Curtis Woodward
Sent:                           Wednesday, April 22, 2026 9:26 AM
To:                             Diana Baun
Cc:                             Brian Tucker; Trent Sorensen
Subject:                        FW: Magna zoning ordinance problem

Categories:                     Magna



Diana,
Per Nathan’s email below, I’d like to see if we can make a correction to Magna’s on-line zoning ordinance
due to a numbering error (typo) in the formal ordinance adopted in October (2025-O-20). In short, the
ordinance was intended to amend 19.50.180 of Magna’s code rather than replacing 19.50.190. So, the
verbiage currently under 19.50.190 in Municode needs to be moved under 19.50.180 (replacing the
existing verbiage), and the old 19.50.190 Weed Abatement and Responsibility to Keep Property Clean put
back in place. The “repaired” ordinance in Municode should look like this:


19.50.180 - Enforcement of Landscape Regulations

A. If weather or other factors prohibit the installation of landscaping at the time an occupancy permit is applied
   for, the applicant shall post a bond to guarantee the completion of the public landscaping, which shall be
   returned upon completion of required landscaping.
B. Failure to implement the landscape plan, or to maintain the lot or use in substantial conformance with the
   landscape plan, shall be cause for the application of fines and penalties, as established in this Code. In
   addition, all landscaping is subject to periodic inspection.

19.50.190 - Weed Abatement and Responsibility to Keep Property Clean

A. Real Property to be Kept Clean. It is unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership or legal entity owning
   or occupying real property in the municipality to allow weeds to grow higher on such property than is
   permitted in this section, or to fail to remove from the property any cuttings of such weeds or any refuse,
   unsightly or deleterious objects, after having been given written notice by Planning and Development
   Services or the Health Department.
B. Standards of Weed Control. The following standards apply:
   1. Height. Weeds may not be permitted to reach a height of more than six inches (6”) at any time and shall
       be cleared from all real property in the municipality. The cuttings shall be cleared and removed from the
       premises.
       a. Ornamental grasses that are deliberately planted as part of a coherent landscaping plan may exceed six
           inches (6”) as long as they are properly maintained.
   2. Fire Hazard. When an inspector determines that the weeds on a property pose a serious fire hazard due to
       their density, dryness, proximity to possible sources of ignition, and the effects of prevailing winds and
       weather, the weeds shall be deemed to be in violation of this Section, regardless of their height.
   3. Noxious Weeds. Noxious weeds shall be controlled and contained according to the recommendations of
       the Utah Department of Agriculture and Food.
                                                        1
Sorry for the extra work caused by the numbering typo, but these things happen and it’s nice that we can
get them corrected without going through more hearings. Feel free to reach out to me or Brian if you have
any questions.

Curtis

From: Nathan Bracken <nbracken@shutah.law>
Sent: Wednesday, April 22, 2026 8:27 AM
To: Curtis Woodward <cdwoodward@msd.utah.gov>; Claire Gillmor <cgillmor@shutah.law>
Cc: Brian Tucker <btucker@msd.utah.gov>; Trent Sorensen <tsorensen@msd.utah.gov>; Mike Milne
<mimilne@msd.utah.gov>
Subject: Re: Magna zoning ordinance problem

Hi Curtis:

Thanks for bringing this to my attention.

Yes, I completely agree that this a drafting error that can be ﬁxed administratively without a formal
amendment. These types of errors are the reason why we included the sta authorization language you
cited below in the land use ordinance templates.

Please let me know if you have any questions.




Nathan Bracken
SMITH HARTVIGSEN PLLC
257 East 200 South, Suite 500
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
801-413-1600
801-413-1620 fax
877-825-2064 toll free
nbracken@SHUtah.law
www.SmithHartvigsen.law
This e-mail may contain privileged and confidential information intended for the use of the individual or entity named above. If the reader of this message is
not the intended recipient, or the employee or agent responsible to deliver it to the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination,
distribution or copying of this communication is strictly prohibited. If you received this communication in error, please immediately notify sender by telephone
or reply e-mail, do not use or disclose the contents to others, and delete the message and all attachments from your computer, system, and/or network
immediately.




                                                                               2
From: Curtis Woodward <cdwoodward@msd.utah.gov>
Date: Tuesday, April 21, 2026 at 1:28 PM
To: Nathan Bracken <nbracken@shutah.law>, Claire Gillmor <cgillmor@shutah.law>
Cc: Brian Tucker <btucker@msd.utah.gov>, Trent Sorensen <tsorensen@msd.utah.gov>, Mike Milne
<mimilne@msd.utah.gov>
Subject: Magna zoning ordinance problem

**External Message**
Nathan,

We’ve just found an issue with the Magna zoning ordinance regarding weeds that I am hoping we can
easily ﬁx. The problem is that a numbering error crept into an ordinance amendment adopted last
October (attached). One of the issues addressed in the October amendment was the removal of the
provision that allows certiﬁcate of occupancy to be withheld for landscaping to be installed. The intent
was to amend Section 19.50.180 of the Magna Code, “Enforcement of Landscape Regulations,” to
comply with state code. However, the formal ordinance listed that section as 19.50.190, which at the
time, was entitled “Weed Abatement and Responsibility to Keep Property Clean,” (also attached) the
section of code cited by code enforcement for weed complaints. Based on the numbering in the adopted
code, “Weed Abatement and Responsibility to Keep Property Clean” was replaced with the new
“Enforcement of Landscape Regulations” section in Municode.
In other words, Magna’s on-line zoning ordinance now has 2 sections entitled “Enforcement of
Landscape Regulations” and none regarding weeds.

I am hoping we can simply ﬁx the problem in Municode for the following reasons:
    1. The adopting ordinance mentions nothing about repealing, amending, or replacing “Weed
       Abatement and Responsibility to Keep Property Clean,” and,
    2. The adopting ordinance contains the proviso:
“Sta are authorized and directed to take such steps as may be
needed: (a) for this ordinance to become e ective under Utah law, including but not
limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711; and (b) to
ﬁnalize and post the ordinance to Municode, including but not limited to making
non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.”

I feel this is an obvious numbering error and am hoping we can simply make the correction in Municode.
However, if you feel we need to institute a formal process to ﬁx the code, I am hopeful that we can still
have code enforcement addressing weed control issues in Magna for the time being as waiting the month
or so it would take to ﬁx the code could result in weeds getting somewhat out of control in Magna City.

What are your thoughts?

Curtis


                     CURTIS WOODWARD                GREATER SALT LAKE
                        Senior Planner            MUNICIPAL SERVICES
                        (385) 391-0127                   DISTRICT
                   CDWoodward@msd.utah.gov        860 Levoy Dr. Suite 300
                                                   Taylorsville, UT 84123

                                                    3
          Providing municipal services to Brighton, Copperton, Emigration Canyon,
              Kearns, Magna, White City and unincorporated Salt Lake County.

Physical Address: 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, UT 84123 (Map)
Mailing Address: PO Box 147700, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-7700
Hours:    8:00 am to 4:30 pm (Weekdays)
Phone: (385) 910-5600




                                                           4
