ORDINANCE 2025-0-01
Ordinance No. O-01 Date: March 25, 2025
AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAGNA COUNCIL AMENDING SECTIONS
14.12.060, SIDEWALKS; 18.12.050, LOTS; 19.50.060, LANDSCAPING OF PARK
STRIPS; 18.14.080, STREET LIGHTING; CLARIFYING LANGUAGE ON
PAVEMENT, TURF, PLANTS AND GROUND COVER, STREET LIGHTING
REQUIREMENTS, AND TREES IN PARK STRIPS
RECITALS

WHEREAS, Magna is a municipality and has authority to adopt land use
regulations, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-9a-501 in accordance with the Municipal Land
Use, Development, and Management Act, Title 10, Section 9a, Utah Code;

WHEREAS, Magna City has an interest in ensuring that streetscapes are
constructed in a uniform and aesthetically pleasing manner to facilitate long term
maintenance;

WHEREAS, streetlights improve safety for pedestrians and for property by
illuminating the street and eliminating areas with no light;

WHEREAS, park strips, walls, and fences along arterial and collector streets are
difficult for those adjacent property owners to maintain;

WHEREAS, It is in the City’s interest to ensure that walls, street trees and stamped
concrete are installed so that the City may maintain the streetscapes along arterial and
collector streets in a cost effective manner;

WHEREAS, Tree grates help to protect street trees when located in areas where
impervious surfaces make up the majority of the street scape;

WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to amend its land use ordinances for
the protection and preservation of the public health, safety and general welfare;

WHEREAS, the Magna Planning Commission held a public hearing on February
13", 2025 to consider amending Title 19 as set forth in Exhibits A through D (the
“Proposed Action”) in accordance with Utah Code §§ 10-9a-205 and 10-9a-502; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has recommended that the Council amend
its land use ordinances set forth in Exhibits A through D for the protection and preservation
of the public health, safety and general welfare.

THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL as follows:

Section 14.12.060. Sidewalks, is hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

i. Section 18.12.050.E. Lots, is hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit B. All
other subsections of 18.12.050 remain unchanged.

pm Section 18.14.080. Street Lighting, is hereby revised to read as set forth in
Exhibit C.

oe Section 19.50.060. Landscaping of Park Strips, is hereby revised to read as set forth
in Exhibit D.

4. All other portions of the Magna Code remain unchanged.

By Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or
specific application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which
shall continue in full force and effect.

6. Direction to Staff. Staff are authorized and directed to take such steps as may be
needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law, including but not
limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711; and (b) to
finalize and post the ordinance to Municode, including but not limited to making
non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.

7. Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting pursuant
to Utah Code § 10-3-712.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 25" day of March 2025.

{Signatures on following page}

MAGNA CITY COUNCIL
CO.

By: Eric J. Barney, ay or Approve as to Form
ATTEST haf dir
, | js : : B Paul Ashton, City Attorney

na Baun, Clerk Recorder
Voting:
Council Member Barney voting \@5
Council Member Hull — voting_\\€5
Council Member Pierce voting N€S
Council Member Prokopis voting S
Council Member Sudbury voting N£S
(Complete as Applicable)
Date ordinance summary was posted to the Magna City website, the Utah Public Notice website,
and in a public place within Magna City per Utah Code § 10-3-711: Maron 21,2075
Effective date of ordinance: M AM 12, 2029

SUMMARY OF
MAGNA CITY
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0- 0 |
2015
On March 25, 2025, the Magna Council enacted Ordinance No. tilth-O-0\, amending
Title 19. Zoning, Sections: 14.12.060, Sidewalks; 18.12.050, Lots; 19.50.060,
Landscaping of Park Strips; 18.14.080, Street Lighting; to clarify language on
pavement, turf, plants and ground cover, street lighting requirements, and trees in
park strips.
By: Eric - ey, vege
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM
Diana Baun, rk Recorder Paul Ashton, City Attorney
Voting:
Council Member Barney voting Uses
Council Member Hull voting AZS
Council Member Pierce voting YeS
Council Member Prokopis voting (425
Council Member Sudbury voting Yes
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2015 -O-0| is available in the office of the
Magna Clerk Recorder, 860 Levoy Dr., Taylorsville, UT 84123.

MAGNA:
SF Planning Commission Staff Report
a,
Meeting Body: Magna City BACKGROUND/ ISSUES TO CONSIDER
Council
Meeting Date: March 25", 2025 The ordinances eoneaininig park strips, what a developer must
build and what an adjoining land owner must maintain, are found
File Number & Project Type: | i, 3 number of different parts of Magna’s Municipal Code. Title 14
OAM2024-001295- 2024 Magna |. . . . .

. . : includes standards concerning sidewalks and park strips; Title 18
Parking Strip and Streetlight |. : a
wvendnrerits includes requirements for the development of subdivision lots

ee and the adjoining streetscape, including requirements for street
Applicability: Citywide a . . . .

lighting; and Title 19 includes landscaping requirements,
Planner: Brian Tucker, Planning | including specific standards for street trees and landscaping in
Manager park strips. Additionally, the adopted standards and specifications
Applicant: Magna Staff include standard drawings for street cross sections, the
Key Findings: construction of sidewalks, including pedestrian ramps, and street
* Magna City has an interest in light design. The existing ordinances generally allow Staff to
ensuring that streetscapes are require developers to construct street improvements that include,
constructed in a uniform and | 4’ sidewalks, 5’ park strips, and 1 street tree for every 25’ of street
aesthetically pleasing mannerto | frontage. Streetlights are required, however the existing
ieciltate long term | ordinance is not clear as to where the streetlights must be placed.
picintenenes . ; Where double fronting lots rear on collector or arterial lots a
e It is in the City’s interest to . .
developer must install a decorative masonry wall to separate the
ensure that walls, street trees, ; ;
streetlights, and stamped home from the major street. Park strips are generally not allowed
concrete are installed so thatthe | to be paved unless they are adjacent to a major street or less than
City may maintain these | 5‘ wide. Park strips must include at least 30% live plant material in
streetscapes in a cost effective } addition to the street trees and turf is prohibited in park strips less
lla than 8’ wide. Where paving a park strip is allowed, it must be
Recommendation: The MSD | stamped and colored, red with a brick pattern. Alternative stamp
Planning Staff and the Magna | templates and colors are allowed upon request.
Planning Commission recommend
that the Council approve the PROPOSED ORDINANCE
attached ordinance. . . . .
Based on conversations with the Mayor and Engineering Staff,
ExnIBItS: Planning Staff have created an ordinance that:
A. Proposed Ordinance . h . f th .
B. Proposed Ordinance Tc the separate portions of the various streetscape Pate!
(Clean Copy) ordinances together with references to help a developer or citizen
more easily find the requirements for park strips;
[0AM2024-001295 / Magna Park Strip Amendments / March 25, 2025] | Page 1 of 3

- Requires a 5' wide sidewalk and a 5’ wide park strip to encourage and better facilitate
pedestrian use and the installation of street trees;

- Requires developers to install decorative masonry fences on corner lots where the side
yard, corner lot is adjacent to a collector or arterial. This requirement it specifically
limited in length to ensure that the clear view triangle remains unobstructed;

- Clarifies that pavement in the park strip is prohibited except in certain limited
circumstances, including when an existing park strip is less than 5’ wide;

- Requires the installation of streetlights at the intersections of streets, at the end of cul-
de-sacs, and at intervals along the streets that vary depending on the type of street;

- Clearly states that the developer is responsible for all of the costs associated with the
installation of streetlights;

- Requires that when pavement is installed in a park strip, it must be with stamped
concrete, using an Ashlar Slate pattern with a grey/brown color,

- Allows the use of grey or brown bricks or paving stones in some circumstances,
including residential applications;

- Allows landscaping of park strips along collector of arterial streets where a masonry
wall has been installed only when a maintenance agreement between Magna and a
homeowners association or special service district is in place; and

- Requires tree grates to be installed along with the required street trees where the park
strip is otherwise paved.

PLANNING COMMISSION HEARING AND ACTION
The Planning Commission held a public hearing on this proposed amendment on February
13, 2025. The Planning Commission recommended that the Council adopt the attached
ordinance but directed Staff to amend the draft to allow homeowners along minor and major
local streets in R-1 and R-2 zones to pave the park strip with any pavement or other hardscape
they may prefer, rather than be limited to stamped concrete, paving stones, or brick. The
attached draft reflects that amendment.
COUNCIL WORK MEETING

The Magna City Council discussed the draft ordinance during their March 11, 2025 regularly
scheduled meeting. The Council asked for a few changes to the draft, including:

- Guidelines/parameters on gravel/inorganic mulch in park strips to prevent vandalism,

- Arequirement to use weed barriers to inhibit the growth of weeds in park strips,

[0AM2024-001295 / Magna Park Strip Amendments / March 25, 2025] | Page 2 of 3

- Guidelines on the prevention of weeds between the columns in masonry walls where
the column results in an area between the wall and the sidewalk.

- Different levels of requirements for stamped concrete along collector and arterial
streets than those in residential areas, and

- Thoughts on the list of prohibited street trees and how to deal with requests for trees
not addressed in the list.

The requested changes have been included in the draft ordinance attached to this staff report.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff finds that:

1. Magna City has an interest in ensuring that streetscapes are constructed in a uniform
and aesthetically pleasing manner to facilitate long term maintenance;

2. Streetlights improve safety for pedestrians and for property by illuminating the street
and eliminating areas with no light;

3. Because they are not easily accessed by adjacent property owners, park strips and
walls/fences along arterial and collector streets are difficult for those property owners
to maintain. It is in the City’s interest to ensure that walls, street trees and stamped
concrete are installed so that the City may maintain these streetscapes in a cost
effective manner; and

4. Tree grates help to protect street trees when located in areas where impervious
surfaces make up the majority of the street scape.

Given the above findings, staff recommend the following action:
The MSD Planning Staff and the Magna Planning Commission recommend that the Council
approve the attached ordinance.

[OAM2024-001295 / Magna Park Strip Amendments / March 25, 2025] | Page 3 of 3

EXHIBIT A

14.12.060 Sidewalks

A. Sidewalks shall be located as far as practicable from travel lanes. Asthe-minimum
standard—eConcrete sidewalks shall be_no less than five feurfeet_(5') in width with a
five foot (5’) parkutility strip between the roadway edge of sidewalk and back of curb.

B. A five-foot (5’) sidewalk wilL-be-allowed integral with the back of curb is required where
exceptional topographic conditions exist_as determined by the Municipal Engineering
Division. Where integral sidewalk is permittedrequired, the right-of-way may be
reduced accordingly with appropriate indications on any plat indicating the right-of-
way.

C. Park strips shall be landscaped and maintained in accordance with Section 19.50.060.

D. Double Fronting Lots. Where lots rear on a public street, the developer must install a
decorative masonry wall along the right of way, at the property side of the sidewalk,
subject to Sections 18.14.170 and 19.50.060. When-properties-_are-adjacent_but- do

E. In areas-zoned-R-1-43-and-other-developments which have an average minimaunHot
area of at least ene-acreone-acre, aesthetic alternatives may be approved in lieu of
standard concrete, except areas along collectors and arterials. The public-works
engineerMunicipal Engineering Division shall review and approve all design and
geometric standards for such requests.

EXHIBIT B
18.12.050 Lots
E. Double Fronting Lots.
| 1. Single-family or duplex double frontage lots shalleare prohibited, except where

they may be essential to provide separation of single-family or duplex residential
development from fronting on collector or arterial streets, or to overcome a specific
disadvantage or hardship imposed by topography or other factors. Such double
frontage lots allowed within the municipality shall be constructed to the adopted
engineering design standards.

2. Where lots have double frontage, are not screened, and/or are provided access
directly onto an arterial street, building setback lines shall be established for each
street side.

3. Lots in single-family or duplex residential subdivisions and lots measuring less than
one hundred feet (100’) wide and located within multifamily residential subdivisions
may abut a street on both the front and rear boundaries, but only under the
following conditions:

a. One lot boundary must abut a collector street, arterial street or freeway;

b. No access to the abutting arterial street or freeway. The administrative land
use authority may require a reservation, easement or other condition of
approval to ensure that no right of access is given; and

c. The administrative land use authority may require that a parkway at the rear
of a double frontage lot be landscaped, or other aesthetic treatment be
provided by the subdivider, subject to the approval of the Planning
Commission to provide a visual and physical separation between the
development and the street.

4. Double fronting lots must include a park strip in accordance with Sections
14.12.060 and 19.50.060(E)(3), and a decorative masonry wall in accordance with
Section 18.14.170. When a street facing side yard, corner lot is adjacent to
collector or arterial streets, the street _landscaped park strip and decorative
masonry wall shall be extended along the side yard, corner lot frontage subject to
Subsection 19.46.120.(E) Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility. The Municipal
Engineering Division may permit an extended clear view area subject to adopted
municipal standards.

EXHIBIT C
18.14.080 Street Lighting
A. Streetlights to be installed.

4. Except as provided for in Subsection E below, adequate street lighting shall be
provided for the safety and welfare of residents and businesses located in Magna
City through the installation of a street lighting system as part of subdivision
development.

2. The Developer shall_submit_a_streetlighting plan_as part of the Subdivision
Improvement Plans.

3. The streetlighting plan shall include streetlights in locations and_at intervals
specified herein.

4. The Developer shall purchase the streetlight assemblies specified _in Magna’s
adopted Standard Drawings, and shall provide materials, equipment_and labor
necessary to install a complete and operable street lighting system as shown in
the approved development plans.

5. The Developer shall incur all costs for and provide trenching in which subsurface
electrical lines may be installed to power the street lighting system as shown on
the development plans or subdivision plats. Trenching shall be to the depth, width
and standards specified by Magna City.

6. The Developer shall install the streetlights in accordance with the details in
Magna’s adopted Standard Drawings.

7. The Developer shall schedule a preconstruction meeting with Magna’s Municipal
Engineering Division prior to any part of the construction of the streetlight system
for review of the extent of the project and responsibilities of both parties. Failure to
comply will result in rejection and delay of project.

B. Streetlight Placement. Streetlights shall be located as follows:

1. Streetlights shall be placed at each road intersection and at the end of each cul-
de-sac. Additional streetlights may be required in locations where safety hazards
or special traffic needs exist; and

2. Streetlights shouldshall be placed at the intersection of lot line boundaries to avoid
unnecessary obstruction along the property frontage; and

3. Streetlights shall be placed in the park strip. When no park strip is available, the
streetlight shall be placed behind the sidewalk: and

4. Streetlights in residential developments located on minor local_and maior local
streets shall be placed on alternating sides of the road with no more than three
hundred linear feet (300’) of street between lights: and

5. Streetlights in industrial developments shall be located on alternating sides of the
street with no more than three hundred and fifty linear feet (350’) of street between
lights; and a

6._Streetlights in commercial projects shall be placed on alternating sides of the street
with no more than one hundred and fifty linear feet (150’) of street between lights:
and —

7. Streetlights located along collector_and_arterial_streets_shall_be placed_on
alternating sides of the street with no more than one hundred and fifty linear feet
(150’) of street between lights.

C. The subdivider or designee shall submit completed as-built-drawings and the GIS data
corresponding to the as-built drawings, as required by Section-48-24this Title to the
Public-Works—Operations-DirecterMunicipal Engineer or designee within thirty (30’)
days of the completion of the installation of a street light system within a subdivision
development.

| D. The Public-Works-Operations _DirecterMunicipal Engineer or designee shall have the
authority:

1. To enforce this Section and to ensure that streetlight installation is completed in

| compliance with all of its requirements; and;

2. To vary the standards referenced in this Section and to approve alternative
streetlight designs and locations when adverse topography, roadway geometrics
and design, the presence of natural vegetation, or any other adverse conditions
exist which would justify such variations and alternatives without being detrimental
to the public safety or welfare.

E. The administrative land use authority shall have the authority to waive or modify the
requirement for streetlight installation in subdivisions upon finding that:

1._ The subdivision is located in an environmentally sensitive area; or

2. The subdivision will result in three (3) or fewer new lots; or

3. The subdivision will not result in any other public street improvements.

EXHIBIT D

19.50.060 Landscaping of Park Strips

A. Landscaping Responsibility. Although park strips are part of the public right-of-way, it
is the responsibility of the property owner immediately adjacent to a park strip to
provide basic maintenance of that park strip. This responsibility includes the
establishment and maintenance of landscaping that conforms to these regulations and
a_responsibility to keep the park strip free of weeds in accordance with Section
19.50.190 of this Title.

B. Irrigation. It is the responsibility of the adjacent property owner to provide regular and
adequate watering to ensure the health of park strip landscaping. If the adjacent
property is irrigated, the irrigation system shall be extended to include the park strip.;
Exceptions may be granted by the Municipal Engineer where written findings support
the exception.

C. Applicability.

1. Any new development shall provide park strip landscaping in conformance with
these regulations.

2. Existing development is not required to provide park strip landscaping, except
where the provisions of Section 19.50.020 apply.

3. Any new park strip landscaping done in conjunction with existing development
shall conform to these regulations.

D. Landscape Plans. For all new development, park strips shall be shown on all
landscape plans for approval.

| E. Pavement in Park Strips. Pavement within a park strip is prohibited, except as follows:

1. A paved pedestrian walkway up to five feet (5’) in width is allowed across any park
strip.

2. Hardscape er-an-alternative form-oflandseapingis allowed in existing park strips
of less than fourfive feet (45’) in depth, as measured from the back of curb to the
sidewalk.

a. Hardscape may consist of permeable or impermeable concrete stamped with
an Ashlar Slate pattern with a grey or brown color.

b. Grey or brown bricks or paving stones may also be used.

c. The use of hardscape materials in park strips on minor local and major local
streets in the R-1 and R-2 residential zones are not limited to the use of
stamped concrete, brick, or paving stones.

patterns or other such factors-and-is-subject-to-approval-by-the-Director-or

Decienes.

3. Double Fronting Lots and Side Yard, Corner Lots. Where a street facing side or
rear yard is adjacent to a collector or arterial street, and no access is permitted to
the collector or arterial street, the following standards shall apply:

a. A park strip must _be installed that is at least five feet (5') wide between the
roadway edge of sidewalk and back of curb.

b. Street trees shall be installed in accordance with subsection 19.50.060.(G).
Irrigation shall be provided to ensure that the street trees thrive.

c. A decorative masonry wall shall be installed along the entire frontage of the
collector or arterial subject to Section 18.14.170. Fencing Requirements, and
Subsection 19.46.120.(E) Intersecting Streets_and_Clear_Visibility. The
Municipal Engineering Division may permit an extended clear view area subject
to APWA and adopted municipal standards. Any area between the masonry
wall and the sidewalk shall include hardscape, gravel mulch placed over a
water permeable weed barrier, or another approved treatment that precludes

c._Live plant material other than the required street trees is appropriate only where
a homeowner's association or special service district_will provide adequate
maintenance. A maintenance agreement must be entered into with Magna prior
to the installation of the park strip landscaping. Turf may only be installed in a
part strip that is at least eight feet (8') wide.

d. Unless live plant_material_is_installed_in accordance with Subsection
19.50.060.(3)(c)., stamped concrete shall be installed within a park strip. The
stamped concrete _must_consist_of_an_Ashlar Slate stamp _pattern_and

e. Tree grates (wells) with adequate dimensions to accommodate the tree species

are required for trees in which the surrounding park strip consists of an
impervious surface. —
F. Plants, Mulch and Weed Control.

1. The type of plants used in park strip landscaping shall be at the discretion of the
adjacent property owner, subject to these regulations. The use of water efficient
standards as outlined in Section 19.50.030, Landscape Irrigation and Efficient
Water Usage, is required.

2. Lawn is prohibited in areas less than eight feet (8’) wide. The use of drought-
tolerant plants is encouraged.

3. _No less than thirty percent (30%) of the ground area of a park strip may be covered
by plants, not including tree canopies. These plants may include evergreen or
deciduous groundcover, herbaceous plants, or shrubs that do not exceed a mature
height of eighteen inches (18”). No plant may create a visibility obstruction for
motorists.

4. Plants and mulch shall be installed in accordance with Subsection 19.50.040 (D)
of this chapter.

5. Gravel, recycled material, and other inorganic mulch types must include a water
permeable weed barrier under the mulch. Gravel mulch shall consist of fine
aggregates not exceeding one-half inch (0.5”) in diameter. Boulders weighing at
least twenty pounds may be used in landscaping treatments.

6. Organic mulch shall be maintained at a depth of not less than 3”.

G-7. Bare soil is not permitted.

H.G._ Trees in Park Strips. One (1) deciduous tree shall be planted in the park strip area
for every twenty-five (25) linear feet of lot frontage, rounded to the nearest whole
number. Park strips less than five feet (5') wide as measured from curb to sidewalk
are not subject to this requirement. All trees shall be planted in the center of the width

| of the park strip.

1. Trees Prohibited for Park Strips. Any tree or shrub that could conflict with the safe
use of the right-of-way is prohibited in the park strip. Prohibited trees include those
species known to have weak wood that is subject to rot, decay, poor branch
structure, invasive root systems, and/or are prone to pests & disease. -Some of
these trees include:

a. Box Elder — Acer negundo

b. Silver Maple — Acer saccharinum

c. Tree of Heaven — Ailantus altissima
d. River Birch — Betula nigra

e. Russian Olive — Eleagnus angustifolia

f. Poplar (all, includes Cottonwood) — Populus spp.

g. Quaking Aspen — Populus tremuloides

h. Flowering Plum — Prunus cerasifera

i. Pin Oak — Quercus palustris

j. Idaho Locust — Robina x ambigua ‘Idahoensis'

k. Willow (all) — Salix spp.

|. Siberian Elm — Ulmus pumila

m. Ash (all) — Fraxinus spp. Susceptible to Emerald Ash Bore.

n. Flowering Pear (Bradford) — Pyrus calleryana. Weak wood & branch structures
with a high susceptibility to fire blight.

o. Conifers/Evergreens (Pine, Spruce, Fir, Cedar, & Juniper). These trees have
shallow root systems and_a high degree of required maintenance due to pine
cones and low branch growth.

Lp. Fruit Trees (Apple, Pear, Peach, Apricot, & Cherry). Fruit producing trees are
not appropriate for park strip applications due to the high maintenance required
for fruit bearing trees in a public, pedestrian space.

2. Trees Recommended for Park Strips.

a. Paperbark Maple — Acer Griseum

b. Tatarian Maple, single stemmed — Acer tatrium

c. Netleaf Hackberry — Celtis reticulate

d. Thornless Cockspur Hawthorn — Crataegus crus-galli var. inermis

e. La Valle Hawthorn — Crataegus x lavallei ‘Carrier’

f. Amur Maakia — Maackia amurensis

g. Fruitless Crabapple — Malus, ioensis ‘Klem’s Improved’ or ‘Spring Snow’, etc.

h. Eastern redbud — Cercis Canadensis

i. Blackhaw-Viburaum—Viburnunprunifotium Little Leaf Lindon — Tilia cordata

j. Frontier Elm — Ulmus “Frontier”

k. Zelkova (all) — Zelkova spp.

3. Trees Appropriate for Use Under Powerlines.

a. Netleaf Hackberry — Celtis reticulate

é-b. Thornless Honeylocust — Gleditsia tricanthos var. inermis ‘Imperial
d.c. Goldenrain Tree — Koelreuteria paniculate
ed. Crabapple spp — Malus ioensis ‘Spring Snow,’ ‘Snow Drift,’
‘Centurion,’ and ‘Zumi’

qe. Japanese Pagodatree — Sophora japonica ‘Regent’
h.f.Wireless zelkova serrulata

4. Other species of trees with deep root systems, large canopies, low maintenance,
disease_and pest resistance, and tolerance for urban conditions may be used,
subject to review and approval by the Director or Designee.
