MAGNA CITY RESOLUTION NO. R2026-20
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL ADOPTING THE RULES OF
ORDER AND PROCEDURE FOR CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS
RECITALS

WHEREAS, the Magna City Council (“City Council”) is the legislative body that
requires a systematic way of conducting its business through rules of order and procedure
designed to provide the orderly conduct for full, open, and comprehensive debate of issues
placed on the City Council agenda for action in a forum open to the public; and

WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. §§ 52-2-101 et. seq., Open and Public Meetings Act,
requires the City to take its actions openly and conduct deliberations openly, unless statutory
exceptions apply;

WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-606 requires that municipalities adopt rules of order
and procedure to govern and prescribe parliamentary order and procedure, ethical behavior, and
civil discourse in a public meeting; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is proper to adopt and revise its rules of order
and procedure so that the City Council meeting and other public hearings are conducted fairly,
orderly, and efficiently; and

WHEREAS, this resolution is adopted to provide a set of rules that governs the City
Council meetings or other public hearings.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Magna City Council hereby adopts the Magna City Council
Rules of Order and Procedure as follows:

1. Quorum: Three members of the City Council shall constitute a quorum to conduct
business in a meeting, excluding the Mayor.

2. Mayor Pro Tempore: The Mayor shall appoint the Mayor pro tempore, which
must be confirmed by the majority of the City Council at the first meeting in
January.

3. Convening the Meeting: The City Council shall schedule regular meetings in advance
by resolution on an annual basis. The schedule shall set the time and place of the
regular meeting which shall be held typically on the second and fourth Tuesday of each

]

month. The Mayor or two City Council members may place items for consideration
on the agenda of a regular or special meeting. The Mayor or the Mayor Pro Tempore
shall call the meeting to order at the time scheduled, preserve order at the meeting, and
conduct the meeting as stated on the agenda and in compliance with applicable
ordinances and rules of order and procedure.

a) All meetings shall be conducted fairly, efficiently, and respectfully. The
Mayor or Mayor Pro Tempore has discretion to conduct the meeting
consistent with these goals.

b) The order to convene a special meeting shall be entered in the minutes and
provided with at least three hours’ notice in compliance with Utah Code Ann.
§ 10-3-502 and notwithstanding Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-202. If any City
Council member makes a personal appearance at the special meeting without
notice, the appearance shall constitute a waiver of the notice.

c) The public notice requirement may be disregarded for an emergency
meeting pursuant to Utah Code Ann. Subsection 52-4-202(5).

4. Work Session: A work session may precede or be included in the regular meeting for the
City Council to ask questions or receive input from staff or others on agenda items or
other matters. The work session may be informal. No final action shall be taken on any
item discussed during a work session.

5. Public Comment: At every regular meeting of the City Council, there shall be an agenda
item titled “Public Comment” near the beginning of the City Council meeting to allow
any member of the public to speak to the City Council on any matter of public concern
regardless if the item is identified on the agenda for action.

a) If any member of the public provides comment on a matter that is set for action
later on the agenda, the Mayor may identify the public comment as part of the
record for that agenda action but only at the time set for discussion.

b) The City Council may not take final action on any unscheduled matter identified
during the public comment portion of the agenda, but any City Council member
may ask questions, give recommendations to the Mayor, or request that a matter
be placed on the agenda at a later meeting.

c) To ensure fairness and neutrality, the Mayor shall limit public comments to a
maximum of three minutes per individual. The Mayor shall govern the conduct

2

of the public comments to prevent outward displays of support or opposition to
those speaking and prohibit allocations of time by one commenter to another.

6. General Meeting Procedure: The matters shall proceed in the order specified on the
agenda. A motion to amend the agenda shall be made by the City Council member
requesting a change of order to the agenda and seconded, with the majority of the City
Council in attendance in favor of amending the agenda.

7. Consent Agenda: If there is a routine or uncontested matter that requires approval, the
City Council may vote to approve each item as a group on the consent agenda without
extensive discussion. Any City Council member may request that any consent agenda
item be removed from consideration and reviewed individually. If a consent agenda
item is placed on the regular agenda, the City Council shall vote separately on the item
or by motion may table the consent agenda item by a nondebatable motion to set it for
a future City Council meeting. :

8. Agenda: The meeting is governed by the agenda, and the agenda constitutes the City
Council’s ordered list of items for discussion or decision. Final action may be taken on
any action item that is in the open meeting and on the agenda.

a) The Mayor shall clearly announce the numbered agenda item and clearly ~
state the subject of the agenda item.

b) The Mayor may invite the appropriate person, who may be the Mayor, a City
Council member, City Attorney, or staff, or an invited person, to provide input,
recommendations, or a report on the agenda item, as provided in Subsection 9,
Initial Presentation Procedures.

c) The Mayor may request members of the City Council to address germane
questions for clarification to the person who provided input or a report. The
person shall be given time to respond.

d) Ata public hearing, the Mayor shall open the public hearing for public input
and announce the time. After hearing public input, the Mayor shall close the
public hearing and announce the time.

e) With or without the Mayor’s invitation for a motion, a City Council member
may make a motion for action on the action agenda item. The Mayor shall
identify the maker of the motion.

3

f) The Mayor shall recognize the second to the motion and identify the maker of
the second, if made. If no City Council member makes a motion to second the
original motion, the agenda item is considered concluded without decision,
and the City Council moves on to the next agenda item, unless another motion
is made.

g) The Mayor shall announce the motion and its second, or request the maker
of the motion to repeat it, or request the City Recorder to repeat the motion.

h) The Mayor shall declare that now is the time on the agenda to discuss the
motion. If no discussion occurs or after discussion, the Mayor shall announce
that the City Council shall vote on the motion.

i) The Mayor may repeat the motion if there has been substantial discussion to
clarify the purpose of the motion and vote.

j) The Mayor votes only in the case of a tie or as otherwise provided in Utah Code
Ann. § 10-3b-302. In the event ofa tie vote or a nay vote, such votes shall be roll
call votes for the purposes of the minutes.

k) The Mayor shall announce the result of the vote and what action has been
taken, if any.

1) The person who sets an agenda item, whether the Mayor, two City Council
members, or staff, may withdraw that agenda item from consideration by
communicating the withdrawal to the Mayor prior to the commencement of the
meeting.

m) During the meeting, the Mayor shall announce that the item has been pulled from
the agenda and why.

9. Initial Presentation Procedures: After an initial input or report on an agenda item, the
Mayor or any City Council member may ask germane questions of the person who
provided the input or report and review documents and information as necessary to
understand the issue.

10. Motions Required for City Council Action. To act on any agenda item under
consideration, a City Council member shall make the motion to approve the action item
or adopt the ordinance, resolution, or rule. The motion shall receive a second from
another City Council member. Any motion to approve requires the majority of the City

4

Council or three votes to pass. In the absence of a second to a motion, the motion to
approve fails, and the agenda item is concluded without decision unless another motion
is made. There can be no more than three motions on the floor at the same time. The vote
shall proceed first on the last motion made.

a). Initial Motion: Any City Council member may make an initial motion on an
agenda item. Prior to voting on the initial motion, the City Council may discuss
or debate the motion fully. Each Council member will be given the opportunity
to discuss the motion beginning with the council member making the motion and
the council member making the second to the motion. The remaining council
members then will be allowed to discuss. After each council member has had
the opportunity to discuss once, the Mayor may ask for another round of
discussion. The Mayor will then close the discussion and call for the vote. The
Mayor may limit the length of the discussion for fairness, orderliness, and
efficiency. The Mayor may call the question to vote on the matter if a motion
has been made and seconded. Any other City Council member may also call the
question to vote on the matter.

b) Motion to Withdraw: At any time prior to voting, the same City Council member
who made the initial motion to approve the action item or adopt the ordinance,
resolution, or rule may, without a second or a vote, withdraw the motion.

c) Motion to Amend: Any City Council member may amend an initial motion but
it requires a second by a City Council member. The motion to amend must be
germane to the initial motion. The City Council may debate or discuss and shall
vote on the amended motion prior to voting on the initial motion. If the motion
to amend the initial motion has been seconded and passes, the Mayor shall allow
debate and action on the amended motion. If the motion to amend fails, the
Mayor shall bring the initial motion back to debate in its original format, not
amended.

d) Motion to Substitute: Any City Council member may make a new and different
motion, known as a substitute motion, which is not germane to the subject under
consideration in the initial motion or the motion to amend the initial motion. The
motion to substitute requires a second. If a City Council member questions the
characterization of the motion as a substitute motion, the Mayor shall designate
the type of motion made, either a motion to amend or a motion to substitute,
which is the final determination. After discussion and debate on the substitute
motion, which is the most recent motion on the floor, a vote shall be taken. If
the substitute motion passes, the initial motion or motion to amend is eliminated.

5

The substitute motion thus completes the agenda item. If the substitute motion
fails, the Mayor now opens the debate on the initial motion, or the motion to
amend the initial motion. If the motion to amend passes, the Mayor shall bring
the initial motion back to the debate as amended. If the motion to amend fails,
the Mayor shall bring the initial motion back to debate in its original format, not
amended.

e) General Consent: The Mayor may use general consent or unanimous consent
to dispense with any motion if it appears the City Council is all in agreement.

The Mayor shall first determine there are no objections to the general
consent motion before the motion is approved.
11. Nondebatable Motions. The Mayor shall immediately call for a vote of the City
Council without debate on the following motions made and seconded. A majority vote
is required to approve the motion.

a) Motion to Adjourn: A motion to adjourn requires the City Council to adjourn
immediately to its next regularly scheduled meeting and requires a majority vote
pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-507.

b) Motion to Fix the Time to Adjourn: A motion that requires the City
Council to adjourn the meeting to a specific time identified in the motion
requires only a motion and a second to the motion as provided in Utah
Code § 10-3-507.

c) Motion to Recess: A motion that requires the City Council to immediately
take a recess with the length of time identified in the motion.

d) Motion to Table: A motion that requires City Council discussion of the agenda
item to cease and the agenda item placed on indefinite hold unless the motion
contains a specific time for the return of the agenda item at a future City Council
meeting upon the order of the Mayor or two City Council members.

e) Call for Previous Question: A motion that requires the City Council to cut off
debate and put the matter to a vote. The motion is frequently “I move the
previous question” or “I call the question.” If the previous question motion is
made and seconded, the Mayor shall stop debate and call for the vote on the
motion to limit debate.

f) Call for Orders of the Day: Any City Council member may call for orders of

6

the day to return the discussion to the agenda. This motion does not require a
vote.

g) Action Items: For information requests or specific assignments to staff, the
City Council may act informally or by consensus without a motion.

12. Voting: Any matter brought for legislative action before the City Council by motion
must be decided by an affirmative vote or negative vote of a majority of the City
Council. Any action by the City Council requires three yes votes to pass. The Mayor
may vote in the case of a tie vote or otherwise pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3b-302.

a) The Mayor Pro Tempore shall be entitled to cast a vote as member of the City
Council, including when acting as Mayor. The Mayor Pro Tempore may not
cast more than one vote on any motion or cast a second vote as Mayor to break
a tie vote among City Council members. If there is a tie vote with the Mayor
Pro Tempore’s vote, the motion fails.

b) On any motion to approve an ordinance, resolution, or rule which creates
financial obligations of the City, the vote shall be recorded as a roll call vote.

c) Onany motion to approve, if the voice vote tally is unclear, or if there is even
one Nay vote, the entire vote shall be recorded as a roll call vote.

d) Ifacouncil member makes the motion to approve which is seconded and then
it fails, a council member may request an entry of findings of fact and
conclusions of law to be included into the motion and the record. The City
Council may motion to recess to allow the City Attorney to prepare the findings
of facts and conclusions of law to be included in the motion or to table for
consideration at a future meeting.

13. Closed Meetings: The City Council may hold a closed meeting pursuant to Utah Code
§ 52-4-205 for certain purposes only. On the public notice required pursuant to Utah
Code Subsection 52-4-202(1), the public notice shall include the meeting agenda,
which shall include an agenda item to go into a closed meeting, even if not acted upon
at each meeting.

a) Any City Council member may make the motion to convene a closed City
Council meeting, and in the open meeting, shall state the reasons for the motion.
The motion shall be seconded. The City Council shall approve the motion by
2/3 vote of the members of the public body present prior to convening the closed

7

meeting.

b) The motion to enter into a closed City Council meeting shall specifically state at
least one of the following grounds as provided in Utah Code Ann. Subsection
52-4-205(1). A closed City Council meeting may only be held for:

i. discussion of the character, professional competence, or physical or
mental health of an individual, except to fill a midterm vacancy or
temporary absence which occurs in open meeting;

ii. strategy sessions to discuss collective bargaining;

iii. strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation;

iv. strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real
property, including any form of a water rights or water shares, to discuss
a proposed development agreement, project proposal, or financing
proposal related to the development of land owned by the state, if public
discussion would disclose the appraisal or estimated value of the
property under consideration or prevent the public body from completing
the transaction on the best possible terms;

v. _ strategy sessions to discuss the sale of real property, including any form
of a water right or water shares, if the public discussion of the
transaction would disclose the appraisal or estimated value of the
property under consideration or prevent the public body from
completing the transaction on the best possible terms when the public
body previously gave public notice that the property would be offered
for sale and the terms of the sale are publicly disclosed before the public
body approves the sale;

vi. discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or
systems;
vii. investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal misconduct; or
viii. deliberations concerning an evaluation, protest, or appeal concerning
procurement matters as provided in Subsections 52-4-205(1) (m), (n),
or (0).
8

c) At the conclusion of the closed meeting discussion, the Mayor shall request a
motion and a second to adjourn the closed meeting and return to the open
meeting.

14. Reconsideration: Only a City Council member who is in the majority on a vote may
make a motion to reconsider or rescind any action taken. Any City Council member may
second the motion. If approved by a majority, the original agenda item shall be
reconsidered or rescinded in the current City Council meeting or placed on the next City
Council or special meeting agenda for reconsideration and discussion.

a) At the time of reconsideration, the City Council may discuss and debate the
initial motion as if it were on the floor for the first time. The number of City
Council members present must be equal to or greater than the number of City
Council members present when the matter was first considered in compliance
with Utah Code § 10-3-508.

b) If reconsideration would cancel or abrogate a binding obligation of the City, the
City Attorney shall provide a legal opinion to the Council on the subject prior
to any action on reconsideration.

c) At the time of reconsideration, if a motion to rescind the action is made
and seconded, the City Attorney shall provide a legal opinion to the
Council on the subject prior to any action on the motion to rescind.

15. Public Hearings at City Council Meetings: The City Council shall conduct a public
hearing during its City Council meeting to consider an annexation, the adoption or any
modification of a land use regulation, zoning text, or zoning map, the tentative budget,
any bond issuance, or any truth in taxation hearing pursuant to Utah Code § 59-2-919.
The City Council may also elect to hold a public hearing on a matter even if it is not
required by law.

16. Rules of Procedure for Public Hearings: The Mayor may announce that the same rules
of order and procedure that apply to a City Council meeting shall apply to a public hearing
held during the City Council meeting. The rules of order and procedure and code of
conduct shall be made available to the public who attend the public hearing and on the
City’s public website.

17. Formal Nature of Public Hearings: A public hearing may be more formal than other
portions of the City Council meeting to protect the due process rights of the applicant
and any other participant.

9

a) Ifa staff report is generated prior to the public hearing, the applicant shall be
provided with a copy of the staff report within a reasonable period of time
prior to the public hearing.

b) The matter shall be introduced by staff and followed by testimony from the
applicant at the applicant’s discretion. Any interested person shall then be given
the opportunity to provide testimony for or against the matter. At the conclusion
of testimony by interested persons, the applicant shall be given the opportunity
to offer rebuttal testimony.

c) Any person providing testimony will be requested to state the person’s name
and address, state clearly the person’s position on the matter subject to
review; and provide testimony, information, or data in support.

d) Any person other than the applicant may provide testimony only once during a
specific public hearing, including public hearings that are postponed or
continued for future meetings.

e) The Mayor may limit the length of testimony or allocate available time
equitably for any interested person who requests to testify.

f) Any testimony, evidence, documents, photographs, or other information
received by the City Council shall be entered into the record of proceedings.
The City Council has the discretion to postpone action on a public hearing item,
and it may continue to receive additional written comments or other evidence
until such time as the Mayor closes the public hearing or reschedules the public
hearing.

g) Atthe conclusion of the public hearing, the City Council may consider the matter
and engage in discussion and debate as necessary. Although the rules of
evidence do not apply to public hearings, City Council members have discretion
to weigh the evidence and measure the credibility of the testimony by a
preponderance of the evidence.

h) The City Council may make a final decision at the close of the public hearing,
except that the City Council may, in some circumstances:

i. announce its findings of fact and conclusions of law in support
of the decision orally on the record; or
10

ii. give directions to staff to prepare a written order, permit, or
decision consistent with the City Council findings, which the City
Council may adopt or modify at a future City Council meeting.

18. Modification of Rules: To the extent these rules of order and procedure conflict with
any other law or statute, the other law or statute shall prevail. The City Council or the
presiding officer has discretion to modify these rules or the procedures under these rules
to the extent necessary to accommodate the needs of a particular situation or changes in
the law. The adoption of these rules shall not be deemed to confer any specific substantive
or procedural rights upon any person participating at a City Council hearing or meeting.

19. Adjournment: The City Council may vote to adjourn the meeting by motion and a
second without hearing all matters on the agenda by a majority vote. Any matter not heard
may be rescheduled on the next available agenda. The City Council may also adjourn at
any time if disruptive conduct at a meeting prevents orderly action.

20. Expulsion: The City Council, by a two-thirds vote of the members of the governing
body, may fine or expel any member of the governing body if the person engages in
disorderly conduct during the open public meeting or closed meeting, fails to disclose
a direct or indirect financial conflict of interest regarding the issue discussed at or action
proposed to be taken in the open public meeting, or commits a crime during the open
public meeting.

21. Requiring Attendance of Witnesses, Production of Evidence: The City Council may
require the attendance of any person to give testimony or produce records, documents, or
things for inspection, copying, or examination necessary or useful to the governance of
the municipality. The City Council may by ordinance establish its own procedures for
issuing subpoenas to require attendance or production in the same manner as provided in
the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure and through the assistance of the City Attorney.

22. Conduct of Mayor as Council Chair: The Mayor shall:

a) preside at City Council meetings;
b) participate in discussion of any matter;
c) vote asa member only in case of a tie or if otherwise specifically authorized
under state law pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3b-302;
d) have no power to veto;
11

e) possess primary responsibility to enforce the Magna City Council Rules of
Order and Procedure;

f) maintain the dignity of the City Council meetings;

g) call the City Council meeting to order and confine discussion to the agenda;

h) permit staff and public participation at appropriate times;

i) require knowledge of the Magna City Council Rules of Order and Procedure;

j) ensure compliance with the Magna City Council Rules of Order and Procedure,

k) ensure compliance with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act;

1) advise or courteously discourage any member who talks disproportionately to
other members, including imposing a time limit on council reports;

m) ensure those who have the floor are not interrupted; and

n) make the ruling if a member is out of order or noncompliant with City
Council procedures.

23. Written Minutes: The City Council shall keep written minutes and a recording of all open
meetings. Written minutes shall include the date, time, place of meeting, the names of
members present and absent, the substance of all matters proposed, discussed, or decided
by the public body which may include a summary of comments made by members of the
public body. Any member of the public body may request any other information or record
of the proceeding to be entered in the minutes or recorded at the open meeting. The written
minutes are intended to be a summary document of the agenda items acted upon and related
discussions, not a transcript or verbatim summary of comments made by members of the
public body.

24. Online Version of Minutes. An online version of the City Council minutes may satisfy
the requirements that minutes include “the substance of all matters proposed, discussed,
or decided or the substance of testimony or comments” if maintained and publicly
available online by providing a link to the meeting recording as required in Utah Code
Subsection 52-4-203 (2)(b).

12

25. Code of Conduct: These Rules of Order and Procedure also adopt the “Code of Conduct”
to be applied both in and out of open public meetings to members of the Magna City
Council, Boards, Committees, and Commissions. Attached as Exhibit A.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF MAGNA :
Section 1. The Magna City Council Rules of Order and Procedure are adopted by the City.
Section 2. The Code of Conduct is adopted for the Mayor, Magna City Council, Boards,
Committees, and other Commissions and attached as Exhibit A.

Section 3. This Resolution hereby adopted is effective on LA arn 24 DLO

[execution on following page]

13

MAGNA CITY RESOLUTION NO. R2026-120
A RESOLUTION OF MAGNA CITY COUNCIL ADOPTING THE RULES OF
ORDER AND PROCEDURE FOR CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS
ADOPTED this 24 day of March, 2026.
MAGNA CITY, UTAH
BY:
‘
Zz
S URY, Mayor Date
ATTEST:
| ame Barn 3 fad |20240
Disha Baun, City Recorder Date
VOTING:
Council Member George voting OWk
Council Member Jensen voting QUAk
Council Member Olsen voting On 2
Council Member Pierce voting OAR
Council Member Prokopis voting Dink
14

EXHIBIT A
CODE OF CONDUCT
15

Code of Conduct
For Members of the Magna City Council, Boards, Committees, and Commissions
The Magna City Council hereby adopts a Code of Conduct for Members of the City Council,
including the Mayor, and Magna City’s boards, committees, and commissions to ensure public
confidence in the integrity of local government and its effective, open, and fair operation. If
there is a conflict between the City Council’s Rules of Order and Procedure and the Planning
Commission’s, the City Council’s Rules of Order and Procedure shall govern until such time
as amended Planning Commission Rules of Order and Procedure are adopted. The following
standards are established:
= Act in the Public Interest
Recognizing that stewardship of the public interest must be their primary concern,
Members will work for the common good of the people of Magna and not for any
private or personal interest, and they will ensure fair and equal treatment to all persons,
claims and transactions coming before the Magna City Council, boards, committees,
and commissions.
= Comply with the Law
Members shall comply with the laws of the nation, the State of Utah, and Magna City in
the performance of their public duties. These laws include the United States and Utah
Constitutions; the Magna City Municipal Code; statutory provisions pertaining to
conflicts of interest, election campaigns, financial disclosures, employer responsibilities,
and open processes of government, including the Utah Public Officers’ and Employees’
Ethics Act, Utah Code, Title 67, Chapter 16; and Magna City policies and procedures.
= Conduct of Members
The professional and personal conduct of Members must be above reproach and avoid
even the appearance of impropriety. Members shall refrain from rudeness, disrespectful
comments, insults, name-calling, abusive conduct, personal charges, or verbal attacks
upon the character or motives of other Members of Council, Mayor, boards, committees,
commissions, the staff, or the public.
m Respect for Process
Members shall perform their duties in accordance with the processes and rules of order
and procedure as established by the Mayor, City Council, board, committees, and
commissions governing the deliberation of public policy issues, meaningful involvement
of the public, and implementation of policy decisions of the City Council by City Staff.
16

= Conduct of Public Meetings
Members shall prepare themselves for public issues in the meeting, listen courteously
and attentively to all public discussions before the body, and focus on the business at
hand. They shall refrain from interrupting other speakers, making personal comments
not germane to the business of the body, or otherwise interfering with the orderly
conduct of meetings. Everyone should feel safe in expressing their opinions, views, and
concerns. Clapping, shouting, and booing during meetings are not permitted. All
persons attending a Public Meeting shall obey any lawful order of the Chair to enforce
the Rules of Procedure.

= Conflict of Interest
In order to ensure their independence and impartiality on behalf of the common good,
Members shall not use their official positions to influence governmental decisions in
which they have a material financial interest, or where they have an organizational
responsibility or personal relationship, which may give the appearance of a conflict of
interest. In accordance with law, Members shall disclose investments, interest in real
property, sources of income, and gifts; and they shall abstain from participating in
deliberations and decision-making where conflicts may exist.

m Policy Role of Members
Members shall respect and adhere to the Council-manager structure as adopted by
ordinance of the Magna City government. In this structure, the City Council determines
the policies of the City with the advice, information, and analysis provided by the
public, City Manager, City staff, boards, committees, or commissions.

mw Independence of Boards, Committees and Commissions
Because of the value of the independent advice of boards, committees, and commissions
to the public decision-making process, Members of the City Council shall refrain from
using their elected positions to unduly influence the deliberations or outcomes of board,
committee, commission, and staff deliberation proceedings.

ms Positive Workplace Environment
Members shall support the maintenance of a positive and constructive workplace
environment for City employees and for citizens and businesses dealing with the City.
Members shall recognize their special role in dealing with City employees but without
giving inappropriate direction to staff.

Compliance and Enforcement

Magna City Code of Conduct is intended to be self-enforcing. It therefore becomes most

17

effective when Members are thoroughly familiar with it and embrace its provisions. The Magna
City Code of Conduct expresses standards for ethical conduct expected of the Mayor and
Members of the Magna City Council, boards, committees, and commissions. Members
themselves have the primary responsibility to ensure that ethical standards are understood and
met, and that the public can continue to have full confidence in the integrity of government.
The Mayor and Chairs of boards, committees, and commissions have the responsibility to
intervene when actions of Members are witnessed or reported that appear to be in violation of
the Code of Conduct. The City Council by 2/3 vote may also impose sanctions on Members
whose conduct does not comply with the City’s ethical standards.
Sanctions
e Official verbal reprimand in an open meeting if the Member continuously causes
disruptions during a public meeting and does not appropriately respond to a simple
warning.
e Formal public letter of censure by Mayor, Chair, or majority of the council or body.
e Loss of any committee assignment.
e In accordance with Utah Code Ann. §§ 52-4-301 or 10-3-607, removal from meetings.
Official Warning and Temporary Suspension
The Meeting Chair shall issue an official warning before taking further action in response to
the following actions by a member of the City Council, City Staff, or the Public who does any
of the following:
e Repeatedly begins speaking without being recognized by the Chair;
e Engages in attacking insults; or
e Engages in boisterous conduct, including applause, whistling, stamping of feet, booing,
or making any loud, threatening, profane, abusive, personal, impertinent, slanderous, or
obscene utterance that disturbs, disrupts, or otherwise impedes the conduct of the
meeting.
This warning shall clearly identify the inappropriate behavior and the potential consequences
that will arise if such behavior persists, provide the warned individual with an opportunity to
18

correct the conduct, before the city takes more serious action, including temporary removal

from the premises. The City Council shall issue this warning by a majority vote.

Suspension from the Meeting

The City may suspend the abusive individual for the remainder of the meeting and any

subsequent meetings which the City has scheduled for that day if the individual does not correct

the behavior in response to an official warning. This temporary suspension from City property

provides the offending individual with an opportunity to “cool down” and reflect on his or her

behavior. The City Council shall approve the suspension from the meeting by a majority vote.
19
