                                   MAGNA CITY COUNCIL

        RESOLUTION NO. R2026-34                                  DATE: June 9th.2026

 A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA CITY COUNCILAPPROVING AN INTBRLOCAL
   AGREEMENT FORA TRCC GRANT FOR PICKLEBALL COURTS AT MAGNA
                       NEIGHBORHOOD PARK

WHEREAS, Magna City (the *City') has requested TRCC Funds from the County to help it fund
the project described in its application attached here to as EXHIBITS B and C, More specifically,
the City requested TRCC Funds to help fund the installation of new pickleball courts at Magna
Neighborhood Park (the "Project"). The County Council appropriated TRCC Funds for this
purpose in the Salt Lake County Budget;

WHEREAS, Magna City and Salt Lake County, on behalf of its Department of Community
Services, entered into an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (the "Agreement"), effective as of
the date specified in the Agreement, to help fund the Project;

WHEREAS, the Magna City Council has determined that it is mutually advantageous to enter
into this Agreement and believe that the County's assistance under this Agreement will contribute
to the prosperity, moral well-being, peace, and comfort of both Magna and Salt Lake County
residents;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL:

                L      Approval of the Asreement: The Agreement is hereby approved in the form
        attached as "EXHIBIT A". The Agreement may be modified or revised prior to execution
        by the Mayor, provided that any such modifications or revisions do not substantially alter
        the materialterms.

               2.       Direction to Mayor and Staff: The Mayor and staff are authorized and
    directed to take such steps as may be needed: (a) for this Resolution to become effective under
    Utah law; and (b) to finalize and post the Resolution to MuniCode, including but not limited
    to making non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener's, formatting, and numbering effors.

               3.       Severabilitv. If a courl of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of
    this Resolution is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Resolution, or specific
    application of this resolution, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full
    force and effect.

               4        Effective Date. This Resolution shalltake effect immediately

                                {Signatures on the Following Page}
APPROVED and ADOPTED this 9th day of June,2026.

MAGNA CITY


 BY




                       YOR


  ATTEST




   1>-ebc,*
  DIANA BAUN
  CITY RECORDER



  VOTE BY COUNCIL:
  Council Member George voting     ryl
  Council Member Jensen voting
                                    ry
  Council Member Olsen voting
  Council Member Pierce voting
  Council Member Prokopis voting
                                   W
                                   -%
EXHIBITA
                                                 Countv Contract No
                                                                     DA Log No. 26CIV000338

                      INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                                             between
                                    SALT LAKE COUNTY
                          for its Department of Community Services
                                               and
                                            MAGNA

       THIS INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is entered
into by and between SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah,
for and on behalf of its Department of Community Services ("County") and MAGNA, a
municipal corporation of the State of Utah ("Cjg"). County and City may each be referred to
herein as a "Party" and collectively as the "Parties."

                                        RECITALS:
       A.      The County is a county existing pursuant to Article XI, Section I of the Utah
Constitution, and the Department of Community Services is a department of the County pursuant
to Salt Lake County Ordinances, $ 2.068.020.

       B.      The County receives funds ("TRCC Funds") pursuant to the Tourism, Recreation,
Cultural, Convention, and Airport Facilities Tax Act, Utah Code Ann. $$ 59-12-602 et seq. (the
"TRCC Act"). The TRCC Act provides that TRCC Funds may be used, among other things, for
the development, operation, and maintenance of publicly owned or operated recreation, cultural,
or convention facilities.

       C.      City is a municipality and a political subdivision of the State of Utah as provided
for in Utah Code Ann. $$ l0-l -201 &202,1953 as amended.

       D.       City has requested TRCC Funds from the County to help it fund the project
described in its application attached hereto as EXHIBIT A. More specifically, City requested
TRCC Funds to help fund the installation of new pickleball courts at Magna Neighborhood Park
(the "Project"). The County Council appropriated TRCC Funds for this purpose in the Salt Lake
County Budget.

        E. The Parties are "public agencies" as defined by the Utah Interlocal Cooperation
Acq Utah Code Ann. $$ 1l-13-101 et seq. (the "lnterlocal Cooperation Act"), and, as such, are
authorized by the Interlocal Cooperation Act to enter into this Agreement to act jointly and
cooperatively in a manner that will enable them to make the most efficient use of their resources
and powers. Additionally, Section ll-13-215 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act authorizes a
county, city, town, or other local political subdivision to share its tax and other revenues with
other counties, cities, towns, local political subdivisions, or the state.
        F.    The Parties have determined that it is mutually advantageous to enter into this
Agreement and believe that the County's assistance under this Agreement will contribute to the
prosperity, moralwell-being, peace, and comfort of Salt Lake County residents.

                                       AGREEMENT:
       NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and in compliance with and
pursuant to the terms hereof and the provisions of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, the Parties
hereby agree as follows:

I . CouNrv's CoNrnrnurroN.
        A.    Contribution of TRCC Funds. County agrees to reimburse up to Fifty Thousand,
Seven-Hundred Thirty-Three dollars ($50,733.00) to City from its 2026TRCC Funds all on the
terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement.

        B.    Proratins of TRCC Funds. For projects with underspend, the TRCC grant will be
reduced based on the project underspend times the TRCC grant percentage. The TRCC
reimbursement will be reduced accordingly.

2 . Crrv's OsI,rclrroNs AND RrpnosBxrATIoNS.

        A.     Acknowledsement. City acknowledges that the TRCC Funds provided to City
under this Agreement are County public funds received pursuant to the TRCC Act and Salt Lake
County Code of Ordinances $3.10.030,3.10.040, and 3.10.051, and therefore must be used for
the development, operation, and maintenance of publicly owned or operated recreation, cultural,
or convention facilities.

        B.      Allowable Uses and Limitation on Use.

                (i)    City shall use the TRCC Funds provided under this Agreement solely to
        cover costs incurred by City to develop the Project as described in EXHIBIT A,
        (application) and EXHIBIT B, (project budget).

                (ii)     City shall not expend any TRCC Funds on: (a) fund-raising expenditures
        related to capital or endowment campaigns, grants or re-grants; (b) direct political
        lobbying, (c) bad debt expense, (d) non-deductible tax penalties, (e) operating expenses
        that are utilized in calculating federal unrelated business income tax; or (f) in any other
        manner that would be inconsistent with the use stated in Paragraphs 24. and 2B of this
        Agreement.

        C.      Project Completion Deadline. Recipient shall complete the project scope as
outlined in City's TRCC Application hereto as EXHIBIT A by March 31,2028.
Any scope change for the project must be requested and approved by the TRCC advisory board
before the work is completed.
       D.       Match Requirement. If City's TRCC Application attached hereto as EXHIBIT A
and/or budget attached as EXHIBIT B indicate that City will make a matching contribution
toward the purpose for which TRCC Funds will be used by City under this Agreement, City shall
make the matching contribution so indicated in the amount specified in City's Application. tf
City fails to make and expend such a matching contribution prior to March 31,2028, the County
may require repayment of TRCC Funds from City for noncompliance with this provision.

       E.      Reimbursement Deadline. City shall furnish to County the TRCC Reimbursement
Form, which can be found at https://www.saltlakecounty.sov/community-services/trcc-support-
proqram/, together with such invoices or other supporting documentation as County may
reasonably require. All requests for reimbursement under this Agreement shall be made on or
before June 30,2028. Additionally, if it is later determined that City used any portion of the
TRCC Funds for anything other than for the purposes identified in Paragraph 28 above, City
shall immediately pay to the County an amount equalto the amount of TRCC Funds spent for
purposes other than those identified in Paragraph 28.

       F.       Reportins Requirements. City shall submit to the County a completed copy of the
TRCC Project Status Report, which can be found at https://www.saltlakecounty.sov/community-
services/trcc-supDort-Drogram/, detailing how the TRCC Funds were expended no later than
December 31,2026; December 31,2027; and June 30,2028.

       G.      Recordkeepine. City agrees to maintain its books and records in such a way that
any TRCC Funds received from the County will be shown separately in the City's books. City
shall maintain records adequate to identifo the use of the TRCC Funds for the purposes specified
in this Agreement. City shall make its books and records available to the County at reasonable
times.

       H.      Public Funds and Public Monies

              (i)      City agrees that the TRCC Funds are "public funds" and "public monies,"
       meaning monies, funds, and accounts, regardless of the source from which they are
       derived, that are owned, held, or administered by the State or any of its boards,
       commissions, institutions, departments, divisions, agencies, bureaus, laboratories, or
       similar instrumentalities, or any county, city, school district, political subdivision, or
       other public body. The terms also include monies, funds or accounts that have been
       transferred by any of the aforementioned public entities to a private contract provider for
       public programs or services. Said funds shall maintain the nature of "public funds" while
       in City's possession.

              (ii)     City, as the recipient of "public funds" and "public monies" pursuant to
       this and other agreements related hereto, expressly agrees that it, its officers, and its
       employees are obligated to receive, keep safe, transfer, disburse and use these "public
       funds" and "public monies" as authorized by law and this Agreement for TRCC
       qualifuing purposes in Salt Lake County. City understands that it, its officers, and its
       employees may be criminally liable under Utah Code Ann. $ 76-8-402 for misuse of
       public funds or monies. City expressly agrees that the County may monitor the
       expenditure of TRCC Funds by City.

               (iii)  City agrees not to make TRCC Funds or proceeds from such funds
       available to any public officer or employee or in violation of the Public Officers' and
       Employees' Ethics Act, Utah Code Ann. $$ 67-16-1, et seq. (1953, as amended).

       I.      Rieht to Verift and Audit. The County reserves the right to verify application and
evaluation information and to audit the use of TRCC Funds received by City under this
Agreement, and the accounting of such use. If the County requests an audit, City agrees to
cooperate fully with the County and its representatives in the performance of the audit.

       J.       Noncompliance. City agrees that the County may withhold TRCC Funds or other
funds or require repayment of TRCC Funds from City for noncompliance with this Agreement,
for failure to comply with directives regarding the use of public funds, or for misuse of public
funds or monies.

       K.      Representations.

               (i)   No Officer or Employee Interest. City represents and agrees that no officer
       or employee of the City has or shall have any pecuniary interest, direct or indirect, in this
       Agreement or the proceeds resulting from the performance of this Agreement.

                (ii) Ethical Standards. City represents that it has not: (a) provided an illegal
       gift in connection with this Agreement to any County officer or employee, or former
       County officer or employee, or to any relative or business entity of a County officer or
       employee, or relative or business entity of a former County officer or employee; (b)
       retained any person to solicit or secure this Agreement upon an agreement or
       understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage or contingent fee, other than bona
       fide employees of bona fide commercial agencies established for the purpose of securing
       business; (c) breached any of the ethical standards in connection with this Agreement set
       forth in State statute or Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances $ 2.07; or (d) knowingly
       influenced, and hereby promises that it will not knowingly influence, in connection with
       this Agreement, any County officer or employee or former County officer or employee to
       breach any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute or Salt Lake County
       ordinances.

3 . GoxrnAL PRovrsroNs:

       A.       Entire Aqreement. This Agreement and the documents referenced herein, if any,
constitute the entire Agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and
no statements, promises, or inducements made by either Pu.ty, or agents for either Party, that are
not contained in this written Agreement shall be binding or valid; and this Agreement may not be
enlarged, modified or altered, except in writing, signed by the Parties.

       B.      Term of Agreement. This Agreement will become effective immediately upon the
completion of the following: (i) the approval of the Agreement by the governing bodies of the
County and City, including the adoption of any necessary resolutions or ordinances by the
County and City authorizing the execution of this Agreement by the appropriate person or
persons for the County and City, respectively, (ii) the execution of this Agreement by a duly
authorized official of each of the Parties, (iii) the submission of this Agreement to an attorney
for each Party that is authorized to represent said Party for review as to properform and
compliance with applicable law, pursuant to Section ll-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Cooperation
Act, and the approval of each respective attomey, and (iv) the filing of a copy of this
Agreement with the keeper of records of each Party (the "Effective Date"). This Agreement
shall terminate upon City's full expenditure of the TRCC Funds received under this Agreement
and upon City's completion of the associated reporting requirements described in Paragraph 2E
above, unless terminated earlier as provided in Paragraphs 3H, 3I, and 3J below. However,
City's obligations in Paragraphs 2F, 2G,2Hand2l above and Paragraph 3F below shall survive
the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

       C.    Interlocal Cooperation Act. In satisfaction of the requirements of the Interlocal
Cooperation Act in connection with this Agreement, the Parties agree as follows:

               (i)     This Agreement shall be authorized as provided in Section ll-13-202.5 of
       the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

               (ii)   This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance with
       applicable law by a duly authorized attorney on behalf of each Party pursuant to and in
       accordance with Section ll-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

               (iii)A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall be filed
       immediately with the keeper of records of each Party pursuant to Section l1-13-209 of
       the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

               (iv)   The term of this Agreement shall not exceed fifty (50) years pursuant to
       Section ll-13-216 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

               (v)    Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each Party shall be
       responsible for its own costs of any action done pursuant to this Agreement, and for any
       financing ofsuch costs.

                (vi) No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement and no
       facility or improvement will be jointly acquired, jointly owned, or jointly operated by the
       Parties under this Agreement.

               (vii) Pursuant to Section ll-13-207 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, the
       County Mayor and City Mayor are hereby designated as the joint administrative board for
       all purposes of the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

       D.     No Obligations to Third Parties. The Parties agree that City's obligations under
this Agreement are solely to the County and that the County's obligations under this Agreement
are solely to City. The Parties do not intend to confer any rights to third parties unless otherwise
expressly provided for under this Agreement.

         E. Asency. No officer, employee, or agent of City or the County is intended to be an
officer, employee, or agent of the other Party. None of the benefits provided by each Party to its
employees including, but not limited to, workers' compensation insurance, health insurance, and
unemployment insurance, are available to the officers, employees, or agents of the other Party.
City and the County will each be solely and entirely responsible for its acts and for the acts of its
officers, employees, or agents during the performance of this Agreement.

       F.      Governmentallmmunitv.Liabilitv"andlndemnification.

               (i)   Govemmental Immunitv. Both Parties are governmental entities under the
       Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, Utah Code Ann. $$ 63c-7-l0l et seq. (the
       "I@i!@!").        Neither Party waives any defenses or limits of liability available under
       the Immunity Act and other applicable law. Both Parties maintain all privileges,
       immunities, and other rights granted by the Immunity Act and all other applicable law.

               (ii)    Liabilitv and Indemnification. The County and City agree to be liable for
       their own negligent acts or omissions, or those of their authorized employees, officers,
       and agents while engaged in the performance of the obligations under this Agreement,
       and neither the County nor City will have any liability whatsoever for any negligent act
       or omission of the other Party, its employees, officers, or agents. However, City shall
       indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the County, its offtcers, employees and agents (the
       "Indemnified Parties") from and against any and all actual or threatened claims, losses,
       damages, injuries, debts, and liabilities of, to, or by third parties, including demands for
       repayment or penalties, however allegedly caused, resulting directly or indirectly from, or
       arising out of (i) City's breach of this Agreement; (ii) any acts or omissions of or by City,
       its agents, representatives, officers, employees, or subcontractors in connection with the
       performance of this Agreement; or (iii) City's use of the TRCC Funds. City agrees that its
       duty to defend and indemnifu the Indemnified Parties under this Agreement includes all
       attorney's fees, litigation and court costs, expert witness fees, and any sums expended by
       or assessed against the County for the defense of any claim or to satisfy any settlement,
       arbitration award, debt, penalty, or verdict paid or incurred on behalf of the County. The
       Parties agree that the requirements of this Paragraph will survive the expiration or sooner
       termination of this Agreement.

       G.      Required Insurance Policies. Both Parties to this Agreement shall maintain
insurance or self-insurance coverage sufficient to meet their obligations hereunder and consistent
with applicable law.

       H.      Non-Fundins Clause.

               (i)    The County has requested or intends to request an appropriation of TRCC
       Funds to be paid to City for the purposes set forth in this Agreement. If TRCC Funds are
       not appropriated and made available beyond December 3l of the county fiscal year in
which this Agreement becomes effective, the Counfy's obligation to contribute TRCC
Funds to City under this Agreement beyond that date will be null and void. This
Agreement places no obligation on the County to contribute TRCC Funds to City in
succeeding fiscal years. The County's obligation to contribute TRCC Funds to City under
this Agreement will terminate and become null and void on the last day of the county
fiscal year for which funds were budgeted and appropriated, except as to those portions
of payments agreed upon for which funds are budgeted and appropriated. The Parties
agree that such termination of the County's obligation under this Paragraph will not be
construed as a breach of this Agreement or as an event of default under this Agreement,
and that such termination of the County's obligation under this Paragraph will be without
penalty and that no right of action for damages or other relief will accrue to the benefit of
City, its successors, or its assigns as to this Agreement, or any portion thereof, which may
terminate and become null and void.

       (ii)     If TRCC Funds are not appropriated and made available to fund
performance by the County under this Agreement, the County shall promptly notify City
of such non-funding and the termination of this Agreement. However, in no event, shall
the County notifu City of such non-funding later than thirty (30) days following the
expiration of the county fiscal year for which TRCC Funds were last appropriated for
contribution to City under this Agreement.

I.     Termination.

       (i)      Event of Default. The occurrence of any one or more of the following
constitutes an "Event of Default" as such term is used herein:

               (a) Failure of City to comply with any of the terms, conditions, covenants,
       or provisions of this Agreement that is not fully cured by City on or before the
       expiration of a thirty (30)-day period commencing upon the County's written
       notice to City of the occurrence thereof.

               (b) City no longer qualifies for receipt of TRCC Funds under the laws of
       the State of Utah or under Salt Lake County ordinances or policy.

               (c) The County's determination to contribute TRCC Funds to City under
       this Agreement was based upon the submission of erroneous information, or the
       County reasonably determines that any representations made by City under this
       Agreement are untrue.

       (ii)     County's Remedies in the Event of Default. Upon the occurrence of any
Event of Default, the County may, in its sole discretion, and in addition to all remedies
conferred upon the County by law or equity and other provisions of this Agreement,
pursue any one or more of the following remedies concurrently or successively, it being
the intent hereof that none of such remedies shall be to the exclusion of anv other:

               (a) Withhold further contributions of TRCC Funds to City; and/or
                       (b) Seek repayment of any TRCC Funds previously paid to City under this
               Agreement; and/or

                       (c) Terminate this Agreement.

               (iii)   Termination Prior to Disbursement. The County may terminate this
       Agreement for convenience by providing thirty (30)-days' written notice specifying the
       nature, extent, and effective date of the termination. However, the County may not
       terminate this agreement once the TRCC Funds have been provided to City and have
       been expended by City for the purposes set forth by this Agreement.

       J.       Force Majeure. Neither Party will be considered in breach of this Agreement to
the extent that performance of their respective obligations is prevented by an Event of Force
Majeure that arises after this Agreement becomes effective. "Event of Force Majeure" means an
event beyond the control of the County or City that prevents a Party from complying with any of
its obligations under this Agreement, including but not limited to: (i) an act of God (such as, but
not limited to, fires, explosions, earthquakes, drought, tidal waves, and floods); (ii) war, acts or
threats of terrorism, invasion, or embargo; or (iii) riots or strikes. If an Event of Force Majeure
persists for a period in excess of sixty (60) days, the County may terminate this Agreement
without liability or penalty, effective upon written notice to City.

        K. No Waiver. The failure of either Party at any time to require performance of any
provision or to resort to any remedy provided under this Agreement will in no way affect the
right of that Party to require performance or to resort to a remedy at any time thereafter.
Additionally, the waiver of any breach of this Agreement by either Party will not constitute a
waiver as to any future breach.

       L.       Compliance with Laws. The Parties shall comply with all applicable statutes,
laws, rules, regulations, licenses, certificates, and authorizations of any governmental body or
authority in the perforrnance of its obligations under this Agreement, including, but not limited
to, those laws requiring access to persons with disabilities as well as the laws governing non-
discrimination against all protected groups and persons in admissions and hiring.

       M.       Records. Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all
other records  pertinent to this Agreement and the TRCC Funds provided under this Agreement
must be kept readily available for review by the County from time to time upon the County's
request. Such records must be retained and maintained for a minimum of three (3) years after the
acceptance of the finalproject status report. If questions stillremain, such as those raised as a
result of an audit, records must be retained until completion or resolution of any audit in process
or pending resolution. Such records may be subject to the Utah Government Records Access and
Management Act, Utah Code Ann. $$ 63G-2-103 et seq.

       N.      Assisnment and Transfer of Funds. City shall not assign or transfer its obligations
under this Agreement nor its rights to the contribution under this Agreement without prior
written consent from the County. City shall use the TRCC Funds provided pursuant to this
Agreement exclusively and solely for the purposes set forth in the Agreement.

       O.       Amendments. This Agreement may be amended, enlarged, modified, or altered
only by an instrument in writing signed by both Parties. If the amendment or modification is
material, the instrument shall be: (i) approved by the goveming bodies of the County and City,
including the adoption of any necessary resolutions or ordinances by the County and City
authorizing the execution of any amendment, change, modification or alteration of this
Agreement by the appropriate person or persons for the County and City, respectively, (ii)
executed by a duly authorized official of each of the Parties, (iii) submitted to an attorney for
each Party that is authorized to represent said Party for review as to proper form and compliance
with applicable law, pursuant to Section ll-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, and
executed by each respective attorney, and (iv) filed with the keeper of the records of each Party.

       P.      Severabilitv. If any provision of this Agreement is found to be illegal or
unenforceable in a judicial proceeding, such provision will be deemed inoperative and severable,
and, provided that the fundamental terms and conditions of this Agreement remain legal and
enforceable, the remainder of this Agreement will remain operative and binding on the Parties.

       a.       Governing Law and Venue. The laws of the State of Utah govem all matters
arising out of this Agreement. Venue for any and all legal actions arising hereunder will lie in the
District Court in and for the County of Salt Lake, State of Utah.

       R.       Warrant of Sienins Authoritv. The person or persons signing this Agreement on
behalf of City warrants his or her authority to do so and to bind City. The County may require
City to return all TRCC Funds paid to City based upon a breach of warranty of authority.

       S.      Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, and all so
executed will constitute one agreement binding on all the Parties, it being understood that all
Parties need not sign the same counterpart. Further, executed copies of this Agreement delivered
by facsimile or email will be deemed an original signed copy of this Agreement.

       Each Party hereby signs this Interlocal Cooperation Agreement on the date written by
each Party on the signature pages attached hereto.

         [The balance of this page was left blank intentionally - Signature pages follow]
INTBRLOCAL AGREEMENT -- SIGNATURE PAGE FOR THE COUNTY


                                             SALT LAKE COUNTY:


                                             By
                                                     Mayor Jennifer Wilson or Designee

                                             Dated:                           ,2026


Approved by:

DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SERVICES

By
     Robin Chalhoub
     Department Director
Dated:                                2026


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality




     Deputy District Attorney




                                [Signatures continue on next page.J
INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT -- SIGNATURE PAGE FOR CITY



                                            MAGNA




                                            Name:

                                            Title: t\,t
                                            Dated:        2026




Attest:


   1>b* B^r-^
    Maruta          , City Recorder




Approved as to Form and Legolity:

CITY ATTORNEY



Name                            lun
Dated:    6A,v ol                   ,roru
EXHIBIT A
Application
EXHIBITS B AND C
*8b'Iiffi
Powered bv ZoomGrants'M and
                                                          Email This Preview   Save as POF   Print   Close Window   A a   t




Salt Lake County
Community Services
TRCC
TRCC 2025 Support Program Application (2026 County Fiscal Year)
Deadline: 611612025
                                                    City of Magna
                           Magna Neighborhood Park Pickleball PRT
                                     Jump to: ADolrcatron Questrons Docunrents


  $ 50,733.37 Requested                  City of Magna

  Submitted : 61 1312025 1 :51 :3O       8952 W Magna Main St          Tel e p hone385-97 7 -227 5
  PM (Pacific)                           Magna, UT 84044                Fax
                                         United States
 Project Contact
                                                                       Web          lttos://magna.utah.gov/198/Citv-
 Amariah Gibbs                           Mayor, City of Kearns
 aorbbsl n]sd utah oov                   Eric Barney
 Tel: 385-508-5944                       ebarnevrO mao na. uta h.oov

 Additional Contacts
 none entered



Application Questions aor-r

       Some answers will not be presented because they are not part of the selected group of questions based
       on the answer to #13.



      Project Overview

      l. Please select one of the following:
       E New prolect
       I Additional funds for a current project
      2. Please select your support program category:
      Your project must fall under one of these categories to be considered for funding. Please refer to the
      TRCC Support Guidelines uploaded to the Resources section above for more information on each
      category.
       a  TOUR - Tourism Project Support
       E  PRT - Parks, Recreation and Trails Support
       L CFSP - Cultural Facilities Support
       t CON - Convention Facilities Support
       f Other (Please contact the county if you select this option)
      3. Please list the project address if it is different than your business address. lf the addresses
are t e same, then write "n/a".
2905 S 9150 W Magna, UT 84044

4. Please provide an overview of your organization, including but not limited to history,
programs, services offered, and audiences served.
The City of Magna is a proud and historic community located in Salt Lake County, Utah, distinguished by
its unique legacy and strong sense of community. Established in the early 20th century primarily as a
company town serving the burgeoning mining industry, Magna has evolved from its industrial roots into a
vibrant metropolitan township, officially recognized for its self-governance and dedicated focus on local
needs. Our history is deeply woven into the fabric of our identity, fostering a resilient spirit and a
commitment to shared progress that continues to define our community today.

As a dedicated municipal entity, Magna City provides a comprehensive suite of essential programs and
services designed to enhance the quality of life for all our residents. Our core functions include robust
public safety initiatrves, ensuring a secure environment through dedicated law enforcement and
emergency response services. Our public works department meticulously maintains our infrastructure,
from roads and utilities to public spaces, ensuring efficient and safe daily operations. Furthermore, our
planning and development efforts are continuously focused on guiding sustainable growth, preserving our
community's character, and fostering economic vitality.

Beyond these fundamental services, Magna City is deeply invested in fostering a thriving community
through a wide array of recreational and cultural programs. We actively manage and maintain ourvital
parks system, including key green spaces like Magna Neighborhood Park, providing essential outdoor
recreation opportunities. Our community programming extends to organizing beloved annual events that
bring residents together, supporting youth engagement through various activities, and offering valuable
resources for our senior population. We believe that providing robust recreational and community services
is paramount to the physical, social, and emotional well-being of our citizens.

The audiences we serve are as diverse and dynamic as Magna itself. Our primary focus is on our
approximately 29,000 residents, encompassing families, youth, seniors, and individuals from a rich
tapestry of cultural backgrounds. We are committed to ensuring equitable access to all city services and
programs, fostering an inclusive environment where every voice is heard and valued. Additionally, we
serve our local businesses, recognizing their integral role in our economic landscape, and collaborate
closely with community organizations and regional partners to amplify our impact. By consistently investing
in our shared spaces and communal activities, Magna City is steadfast in its mission to cultivate a
cohesive, healthy, and prosperous environment for all who call it home.

5. Please provide us with your project summary.
This should be an overview of your project that explains its purpose and what it aims to accomptish
(include who, what, when, where, and cost). You will use the Project Details section below to provide
specifics on how this will be accomplished.
The City of Magna proposes the installation of new pickleball courts at Magna Neighborhood Park (2905
S 9150 W, Magna, UT 84044). This project, spearheaded by Magna City in partnership with Big T
Construction, aims to create a vital recreational hub that addresses the growing demand for accessible
sports facilities within our community.

The purpose of this proJect is to provide dedicated infrastructure for pickleball, a rapidly growing and
inclusive sport that promotes physical activity and social engagement across all ages and skill levels.
Currently, Magna residents have limited local access to pickleball courts, necessitating travel outside the
community. These new courts willfill that void, enhancing local recreational opportunities and serving as a
central gathering place that fosters healthy lifestyles and community connection.

Construction is slated to begin in March 2026. The total estimated p@ect cost is $67,il4.50. The City of
Magna is providing a 33% local match of $16,911.13, and we are requesting $50,733.37 in TRCC
funding. This investment will significantly enhance Magna's public park amenities, elevate the quality of life
for its residents, and support a more active and engaged community for years to come.

6. How does your project align with the specified TRCC support program category you selected
 n  uest on      For PRT and CFSP projects, please include alignment t t             ou    S   s ons
and Principles.
Please refer to the TRCC Guidelines in fhe Resources tab above for a description of the program
categories as well as the County's Visions and Principles.
The City of Magna's proposal for a new pickleball court at Magna Neighborhood Park aligns perfectly with
the Parks, Recreation, and Trails (PRT) Support Program. This vital addition to our public recreational
infrastructure fits the program's definition of a publicly owned park amenity, proactively meeting the
burgeoning demand for accessible recreation in Salt Lake County, especially for Magna's growing
population.

Our project directly reflects the Salt Lake County 2015 Parks and Recreation Facilities Master Plan's PRT
Vision and Principles. By providing a dedicated pickleball facility, we're responding to evolving lifestyles
and seizing an imperative opportunity to meet our community's future recreational needs. This
demonstrates Salt Lake County's leadership in addressing a significant regional trend.

The pro.lect integrates seamlessly with key PRT Principles. lt addresses the clear community need for
pickleball, providing a modern facility that fosters active lifestyles and intergenerational play, ensuring our
recreational offerings remain relevant. lt diversifies Magna Neighborhood Park's amenities, introducing a
highly sought-after option and ensuring the park remains a vibrant community hub. The construction of this
new court significantly enhances and expands the park's recrealional infrastructure, elevating its capacity
to serve residents effectively. Crucially, it will enhance the City of Magna's ability to improve, expand, and
sustain programming, empowering us to develop new lessons, leagues, and tournaments, boosting
community engagement and promoting widespread participation in healthy activities.

The City of Magna is fully committed to the project's longterm success and sustainability, aligning with the
principle of "readiness, feasibility, and sustainability through Iongterm secure funding streams." We have
robust plans for ongoing maintenance and operational costs, ensuring its longevity and continued benefit.
By tnvesting in this high-demand recreational infrastructure, we actively contribute to "ensure the legacy of
parks and recreation throughout the County," providing accessible, high-quality facilities for future
generalions.

ln conclusion, the proposed pickleball court at Magna Neighborhood Park is a strategic investment that
perfectly aligns with the Salt Lake County TRCC PRT Support Program. lt directly addresses the County's
vision for proactive recreational development and embodies multiple core principles, promising a
valuable, sustainable, and highly utilized asset for Magna and Salt Lake County residents.

7. Please provide evidence of local support and community need justifying this project.
(Lessees of government-owned facilities must provide landlord's written consent for
construction/implementation of proposed improvements.)
Provide a list of local suppoft and upload additional suppofting documents to the Documents tab.
These may include press coverage, feasibility study resutts, letters of suppoi from
community/donors/afts organizations in your area, etc.
The City of Magna's proposal for a new pickleball court at Magna Neighborhood Park aligns direcfly with
the Parks, Recreation, and Trails (PRT) Support Program. This project is a vital addition to our pubiic
recreational infrastructure, fitting the program's definition of a publicly owned park amenity. lt's a proactive
step to meet the burgeoning demand for accessible recreation in Salt Lake County, particularly for
Magna's expanding population.

Our prolect's design aligns with the Salt Lake County 2015 Parks and Recreation Facilities Master Plan's
PRT Visiort and Principles. By providing a dedicated pickleball facility, we're strategically responding to
evolving lifestyles and meeting our community's future recreational needs. This initiative demonstrates
Salt Lake County's leadership in addressing a significant regional trend.

The project integrates seamlessly with key PRT Principles. lt directly addresses the overuvhelming
community need for pickleball, providing a modern facility that fosters active lifestyles and
intergenerational play. lt diversifies Magna Neighborhood Park's amenities, introducing a highly sought-
after option and ensuring the park remains a vibrant community hub. The construction of thiJnew court
SI nificantl enhances and ex ands the       rk's recreational infrastructure elevatin its ca ct to serve
residents effectively. Crucially, it will enhance the City of Magna's ability to improve, expand, and sustain
programming, empowering us to develop new lessons, leagues, and tournaments, boosting community
engagement and promoting widespread participation in healthy activities.

The City of Magna is fully committed to the prolect's long{erm success and sustainability, aligning with the
principle of "readiness, feasibility, and sustainability through long{erm secure funding streams." We have
robust plans for ongoing maintenance and operational costs, ensuring its longevity and continued benefit.
By investing in this high-demand recreational infrastructure, we actively contribute to "ensure the legacy of
parks and recreation throughout the County," providing accessible, high-quality facilities for future
generations.

8. Please provide evidence that your project is appropriately sized to the capacity and needs of
your organization and the community. lnclude attendance data.
The proposed pickleball court at Magna Neighborhood Park is strategically sized to directly address the
current and projected recreational needs of the Magna community, demonstrating a clear alignment with
both community demand and the City's capacity to manage and sustain the amenity.

Magna is a rapidly growing community, with its population increasing from 29,275 in 2022to 29,488 in
2023, and projections for continued growth. This demographic trend directly correlates with an escalating
demand for diverse recreational opportunities. Pickleball, in particular, has seen an explosion in popularity
nationwide and specifically in Utah, where it is recognized as the fastest-growing sport. This accessibility
and appeal to all ages, from youth to seniors, makes it an ideal fit for Magna's diverse and family-oriented
population.

While direct attendance data for Magna Neighborhood Park itself is challenging to isolate precisely, we
have utilized Placer.ai data, monitoring within 250 feet of the park, to gauge community engagement and
park utilization. This proximate data indicates signifrcant and consistent usage, with estimated attendance
figures of 4,800 visitors in 2022 and 5,200 visitors in both 2023 and 2024. This steady and increasing
visitor count within the park's immediate vicinity underscores an active and engaged community that
regularly utilizes local outdoor spaces. The slight increase in recent years, despite no dedicated pickleball
courts, suggests an existing pool of residents who will readily embrace a new, highly desired recreational
option. The single pickleball court proposed is a fiscally responsible first step, providing a high-demand
amenity without overbuilding, allowing the City to assess usage patterns and consider future expansion if
warranted by ovenvhelming demand.

The City of Magna possesses the organizational capacity, through its dedicated parks and recreation
staff, to manage the operation and maintenance of this new faolity. The project's cost, with a significant
33% local match, further demonstrates the City's commitment and financial readiness. By aligning with a
demonstrated community interest, substantiated by general park visitation and regional trends in
pickleball's popularity, this project is appropriately sized to both meet an immediate need and lay the
groundwork for a sustainable, valuable community asset.

9. Detail how the project is integral to your organization's mission.
As the City of Magna, our core mission is centered on enhancing the quality of life for all our residents by
providing essential services, fostering a vibrant and healthy community, and creating accessible
opportunities for growth and well-being. The proposed installation of a new pickleball court at Magna
Neighborhood Park is not merely an amenity; it is an integral and direct manifestation of this mission,
serving as a critical piece in our broader strategy for community development and resident enrichment.

Our commitment to fostering a vibrant and healthy community is paramount, and this project directly
supports that objective. A pickleball court offers a low-impact yet engaging activity that appeals to a wide
demographic, from youth to seniors, promoting physical activity and social interaction. By providing this
accessible recreational outlet, we actively combat sedentary lifestyles and encourage residents to engage
in healthy habits, which is a fundamental component of our public health and wellness initiatives.

Furthermore, the proJect aligns perfectly with our mission to create accessible opportunities for all. Magna
Neighborhood Park is centrally located and easily accessible to a diverse cross-section of our population.
lntroducing a dedicated pickleball court ensures that residents of all ages, socioeconomic backgrounds,
and physical abilities have equ ble access to a popular and bene cial rec         ona sport         inclusivity
is a cornerstone of our organizational values, ensuring that our public spaces truly serve the entire
community.

Beyond physical health, the pickleball court will significantly contribute to strengthening community bonds.
Our mission recognizes the importance of creating spaces where residents can connect, interact, and
build relationships. The pickleball court will naturally become a hub for social engagement, friendly
competition, and community gatherings, fostering a stronger sense of belonging and camaraderie among
neighbors. This project is notjust about concrete and nets; it's about building social capital and enriching
the civic fabric of Magna.

ln essence, the pickleball court project at Magna Neighborhood Park is not an tsolated initiative but a
direct and deliberate investment in the core principles of our mission. lt enables us to tangibly improve
resident health, ensure equitable access to recreational resources, and cultivate a more connected and
vibrant community. lt is a testament to our commitment to proactive planning and providing the
foundational elements necessary for all Magna residents to thrive.

10. The TRCC Support Program is a reimbursement grant. Describe in detail 1) how you plan to
turn unsecured project funding sources into secured sources, AND 2) how you will manage
cash flow for the project.
 You must demonstrate how you will have cash-in-hand to facilitate your project prior to reimbursement
through the TRCC Suppoft Program.
As the municipal grant writer for the City of Magna, I understand the critical nature of securing upfront
funding and meticulously managing cash flow for reimbursement-based grants like the TRCC Suppo(
Program. Our approach for the Magna Neighborhood Park pickleball court project is robust, Ieveraging
established municipal financial practices and a strong commitment to this community enhancement.

The project's total cost is $67,644.50. Our funding strategy comprises two main components: the City of
Magna's committed 33% local match and the requested TRCC funding. The City of Magna's local match
of $16,91 1.13 is already a secured funding source. This portion will be drawn directly from the City's
General Fund reserves, which are maintained at a healthy level within our adopted Fiscal Year 2025-2026
Capital lmprovement Projects (ClP) budget. The TRCC Grant request of $50,733.37 is currently
unsecured untrl formal grant award.

Our strategy ensures the City of Magna will have cash-in-hand to cover all project expenses before
submitting reimbursement requests. We'll achieve this through an internal temporary loan from our
General Fund reserves to the Parks & Recreation Department's Capital Projects account. This common
municipal practice ensures the full $67,644.50 will be available for contractor payments. Our contract with
Big T Construction will feature clear progress payments, made directly from this fully funded Capital
Prolects account.

As an experienced municipal grant writer, l'll ensure meticulous documentation for all project expenditures,
adhering strictly to TRCC reimbursement guidelines. Once project milestones are met and payments
made, we'll promptly submit reimbursement requests to minimize the internal loan's duration and replenish
General Fund reserves. All prolect expenditures fall under the regular financial oversight of the Magna City
Council, ensuring transparency and accountability.

ln summary, the City of Magna's financial stability and established internal procedures provide a clear and
assured pathway for cash-in-hand funding for the Magna Neighborhood Park pickleball court. We are fully
prepared to cover all project costs upfront, confident in our ability to manage cash flow and secure timely
reimbursement from the TRCC Support Program.

1 1. Document your ability to raise additional project funds.
As a municipal entity, the City of Magna possesses a robust and established capacity for raising
additional prolect funds, leveraging both public and private sector opportunities. Our primary strength lies
in our direct access to municipal bonding authority and the ability to allocate funds through our approved
Capital lmprovement Projects (ClP) budget. Should the project scope expand, or unforeseen needs arise,
the City Council has the legislative authority to issue municipal bonds, a secure and readily available
funding me an sm         n structure projects      ur strong financial standing and bond ratings would
facilitate such a process efficiently.

Beyond direct municipal funding, the City of Magna actively pursues various state and federal grant
opportunities that consistently align with our parks and recreation development goals. We regularly
monitor programs through the Utah Division of Outdoor Recreation, including the Community Parks &
Recreation Grant (CPR), Land & Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), and the Utah Outdoor Recreation
Grant (UORG). Our grant writing team has a proven track record of securing competitive funding, and we
maintain strong relationships with relevant state agencies. Given the regional and national growth of
pickleball, we are also actively monitoring and would pursue specific pickleball-focused grants, such as
those offered by USA Pickleball's Serves Grant Program, should additional court needs arise.

Furthermore, the City is adept at fostering public-private partnerships and community engagement for
park enhancements. We have a history of successful collaborations with local businesses and community
organizations for various city projects. While this speciflc pickleball court project is fully funded by the
TRCC request and our municipal match, should future expansion or supplementary amenities be desired
by the community, we would explore local fundraising initiatives, sponsorships from businesses, and
engagement with civic groups. This ability to mobilize community support, coupled with our municipal
financial mechanisms and consistent pursuit of relevant grant funding, firmly demonstrates Magna's
comprehensive capacity to raise additional project funds to ensure the long-term success and potential
growth of recreational amenities at Magna Neighborhood Park.


Project Details

12. Provide an analysis of the financial impact this project will have on your organization's
future finances.
The installation of the new pickleball court at lvlagna Neighborhood Park is anticipated to have a positive
and sustainable long-term financial impact on the City of Magna's future finances. Our analysis indicates
that the project's benefits will significantly outweigh its operational costs, contributing to enhanced
community well-being and prudent financial stewardship.

Firstly, regarding initial capital expenditure, the project is largely supported by the requested TRCC grant,
covering approximately 75% ofthe total cost. The City of Magna's 33% local match has been proactively
allocated from existing General Fund reserves as part of our approved Capital lmprovement Projects
(ClP) budget for Fiscal Year 2025-2026. This means the upfront cost is managed within established
budgetary frameworks, avoiding the need for new debt or significant unbudgeted outlays. As a
reimbursement grant, our internal cash flow management strategy, utilizing General Fund reserves as a
temporary internal loan, ensures that the City's operating budget remains unaffected by upfront prolect
costs, minimizing any short-term financial strain.

Secondly, the long{erm operational and maintenance (O&M)costs associated with a single pickleball
court are projected to be minimal and easily absorbable within the existing Parks & Recreation
Department's annual operating budget. Pickleball courts generally require less intensive maintenance
compared to other recreational facilities like swimming pools or large sports fields. Typical O&M includes
periodic sweeping, minor crack repair, line repainting every few years, and routine checks offencing and
nets. These activities can largely be integrated into existing park maintenance schedules and staff duties,
requiring no significant increase in personnel or specialized equipment. We anticipate these costs to be
well under $1,000 annually, a negligible amount compared to the substantial community benefit.

Furthermore, the prolect presents potential indirect financial benefits. While direct revenue generation
from a free public court is not the primary objective, enhanced park amenities often lead to increased
property values in surrounding areas overtime, indirectly contributing to the City's tax base. More
importantly, providing free, accessible recreational opportunities can contribute to public health, potentially
reducing healthcare costs for residents and fostering a more active workforce, which benefits the local
economy. The courts will also serve as a non-revenue generating attraction that enhances the overall
appeal of Magna, potentially supporting local businesses through increased visitation to the area.
 n conc US n, e prc eball court at        na Neighborhood Park represents a strategic, financially sound
investment. lts substantial grant funding minimizes the City's direct capital burden, and its low future
operational and maintenance costs ensure long-term sustainability without straining municipal finances

13. Please specify the type of funding you are requesting.
The questions numbers below will change depending on your selection for this question
 L  Consulting Funding
 E  Capital Funding
 f  Tourism Promotion Funding

14. Type of consulting services
-answer not presented because of the answer to #1 3

15. Goals and objectives of consulting services
-answer not presented because of the answer to i13

'16. Scope of Work, including key project components, expected deliverables, timeline, and
estimated project completion date (if approved).
-answer not presented because of the answer to #13-

17. Payment schedule for the work and expenses.
-answer not presented because of the answer to #1 3-

18. Describe the current facility and specify if it is owned or leased.
Please also upload the deed or contract to purchase propefty or lease agreement (can be executed or
pending) to the Documents tab.
The proposed pickleball court project will be located at Magna Neighborhood Park. This park is currently
equipped with a concrete court featuring four basketball hoops, along with a couple of benches situated
centrally within the neighborhood. While Magna Neighborhood Park is presently owned by Salt Lake
County Parks and Recreation, the deed for the property is actively in the process of being transferred to
the City of Magna. This pending transfer is fully documented within the letter of support from Salt Lake
County Parks and Recreation, which we have uploaded to the Documents tab for your review. The park
already offers these existing recreational amenities, and the new pickleball court will serve as a
complementary addition, significantly enhancing the public infrastructure available to the community.

'19. Scope of Work, including key project components, expected deliverables, timeline, and
estimated project completion date (if approved).
Within your answer to this question, please provide all relevant details that will help reviewers befter
understand WHAT is included in the project and HOW you will complete it. Please include projected
stafi and completion dates.
The Magna Neighborhood Park Pickleball Court project encompasses the complete construction and
installation of a new, state-of-the-art pickleball court, designed to provide a high-quality, dedicated
recreational facility for the Magna community. This initiative will kansform an underutilized section of the
park into a vibrant, active space.

The project's key components, as detailed in our contractor's quote, involve several crucial phases. lt
begins with site preparation, which includes all necessary groundwork such as earthwork, precise
grading, and ensuring proper drainage to prevent water accumulation and ensure the court's longevity.
This foundational work will be completed to industry standards. Following this, concrete pad construction
will establish the court's playing surface. This phase entails meticulous formwork, the laying of vapor
barriers, and pouring high-strength concrete, which will then be flnished to a smooth, uniform texture
essential for a quality sports surface. To ensure player safety and clearly define boundaries, fencing
installatron will then enclose the court with durable chain-link or similar sports fencing, complete with
access gates. Next, a specialized sports surface and paint application will be applied to the concrete pad.
This multi-layered acrylic system offers excellent traction, shock absorption, and a consistent ball bounce,
optimizing play. Once the surface is ready, regulation pickleball lines will be precisely painted onto the
court in contrasting colors, adhering to o tcta ldimensions.      pro S ona rade posunet system
installation will securely place durable, weather-resistant posts and a net at the court's center, designed
for sustained use in a public park setting. Finally, to maximize usability and allow for evening play, lighting
installation will involve energy-efficient LED sports lighting around the court. This system will be designed
to provide uniform illumination across the entire playing surface, ensuring player safety and extending
playable hours throughout the year.

The expected deliverables of this project include a fully constructed, regulation-sized pickleball court,
ready for immediate public use, complete with all specified components: a prepared and leveled site, a
durable concrete playing surface with high-performance sports surfacing and painted lines, secure
perimeter fencing, a professional post and net system, and effective lighting for extended play.

Regarding the timeline, the prolected start date for physical construction is anticipated in April 2026,
directly following the finalization of contracts with Magna City in March 2026. We estimate a construction
period of approximately 3 to 4 months, which is contingent upon favorable weather conditions and
material availability. Therefore, the estimated project completion date is July 2026. This schedule allows
for each key component to be completed to high standards, followed by final inspections and the court's
public opening.

20. Describe in detail howyou will fund future capital maintenance and operating expenses.
lnclude a five-year expense forecast and a long term maintenance budget plan.
lf needed, budget plan may be uploaded to the Documents tab.
The City of Magna is fully committed to the long{erm sustainability of the new pickleball court at Magna
Neighborhood Park, integrating its future maintenance and operating expenses into our established
municipal budgeting processes. This ensures the asset remains a valuable community resource for
decades.

Routine operational expenses and maintenance will be funded through the City's General Fund,
specifically allocated to the Parks & Recreation Department's annual operating budget. Our existing staff
will handle tasks like sweeping, debris removal, and net checks, incurring no new personnel costs. We
pro.ject a five-year operational and routine maintenance expense forecast: approximately $250-$500 for
Year 1 (August 2O26-July 2027), consistent for Yeat 2.Yeat 3 might be slightly higher at g750-g1,200 for
proactive inspections and minor repairs. Year 4 returns to 9250-9500, and year 5 anticipates $1,500-
$2,500 for potential court line re-striping. These amounts are low and easily integrated into our existing
park maintenance budget.

For larger capital maintenance needs, the City relies on its comprehensive Capital lmprovement Projects
(ClP) budget and dedicated reserve funds. Our long{erm plan includes full surface resurfacing every 7-10
years (estimated $8,000-$12,000), fencing repair/replacement every 1 5-20 years (estimated $2,000-
$4,000), posUnet system replacement every 10-1 5 years (estimated $SOO-Si ,OOO), and major tighting
system maintenance/replacement every 15-20 years (estimated $3,000-$6,000). To fund these, the city
maintains a dedicated Capital Projects Reserve Fund, with annual contributions from the General Fund
based on a rolling five-year CIP plan. This proactive approach ensures sufficient funds are accrued to
address maior maintenance when needed, without relying on one-time appropriations or external grants
for preservation. Ourfinancial planning guarantees the Magna Neighborhood Park pickleball courtwill
remain a high-quality, sustainable asset for the community's enjoyment for many decades to come.

21. Provide project management information including key personnel and their experience.
The Magna Neighborhood Park Pickleball Court project will be managed with a clear organizational
structure, leveraging the extensive experience of key City of Magna personnel to ensure efficient and
successful completion. our project management approach emphasizes strong leadership, inter-
departmental coordination, and rigorous oversight from initiation through completion.

The.primary oversight and project lead for this initiative will be the City Manager, [City Manager's Name].
As the chief administrative officer for Magna city, lcity Manager's Name] brings [Number] years of
experience in municipal operations, shategic planning, and capital project execution. IHe/She/They] will
be responsible for overall project direction, interdepartmental coordination, and ensuiing adherence to
the City's financial policies and contraGtual obligations. [His/Her/Their] deep understanding of community
n    san mun c pa processes w            nva UA e rn navrg ating any unforeseen challenges an
maintaining pOect momentum.

Direct day{o-day management and logistical coordination will fall under the purview of the Parks &
Recreation Director, Chris Otto. With 10+ years of experience in managing public park facilities,
recreational programming, and overseeing park development projects, Salt Lake County Parks and
Recreation possesses the practical expertise necessary for this specific undertaking. They will be
responsible for managing the contractor (Big T Construction), overseeing site progress, ensuring quality
control, and coordinating with City operations for utility access and maintenance planning. Their direct
involvement guarantees that the project aligns with the longterm vision for Magna Neighborhood Park and
seamlessly integrates with existing park operations.

Additionally, as the Municipal Grant Writer, Amariah Gibbs, I will be responsible for all grant compliance,
reporting, and financial documentation. My experience in securing and managing state and local grants,
coupled with a thorough understanding of reimbursement processes, will ensure timely and accurate
submission of all required paperwork to the TRCC Support Program. I will work closely with the Parks &
Recreation Director and the City Manager to ensure all project expenditures are meticulously tracked and
eligible for reimbursement.

Finally, the City Engineer, Tamaran Woodland, will provide critical technical oversight. With 7 years in civil
engineering and municipal infrastructure, she will review site plans, ensure adherence to all relevant
building codes and specifications, and provide expert guidance on site preparation, concrete pouring,
and drainage solutions. Her involvement guarantees the structural integrity and long{erm durability ofthe
cou rl.




22. OPTIONAL: Architectural information including site plan, space program, and schematic
design.
Please upload above mentioned architectural documents to the Documents tab. lf you do not have a
response to this question, please put'N/A' in the text field.
N/A

23. Construction information including: construction cost estimate from a qualified
professional, master construction budget, LEED planning (if applicable), and contingency plans
for cost overruns.
Please also upload above mentioned construction information documents to the Documents tab.
The Magna Neighborhood Park Pickleball Court project relies on a professionally estimated budget from
Big T Construction, ensuring accuracy and reliability. Our master construction budget details all key
components:

Site preparation (1 ,800 sq ft @ $1 .63/unit) totals $2,925. Concrete pad construction (1,800 sq ft @
$14lunit) totals $25,200. Fencing is budgeted at $24,000. The sports surface with paint is 93,420
($4/unit) The post and net system is $1 ,350. Lighting is allocated $4,500.

These direct costs are supplemented by a 10% contingency for unforeseen issues, bringing the overall
total project cost to $67,644.50. This contingency provides a crucial buffer against potential cost overruns
from unexpected site conditions or material fluctuations.

While not seeking formal LEED certification for this outdoor court, Magna City is committed to sustainable
practices. We'll use durable, long-lasting materials, energy-efficient LED lighting, and ensure proper site
drainage, aligning with broader sustarnability principles.

Our contingency plan for cost overruns primarily relies on the 10% budget buffer. Should major issues
cause costs to exceed this, the City would first explore value engineering. lf necessary, any remaining
overages would be covered by the City's General Fund reserves. Our strong financial standing and
established procedures for managing capital projects ensure we have the fiscal capacity to absorb
unantici    d costs, guaranteer      ro ect completion.
    The detailed construction cost estimate from Big T Construction, serving as our master budget, has been
    uploaded to the Documents tab.

    24. Type of tourism promotion services
    -answer nol presented because of the answer to ttl3-

    25. Goals and objectives of tourism promotion services
    -answer nol presented because of the answer to #13-

    26. Scope of Work, including key project components, expected deliverables, timeline, and
    estimated project completion date (if approved).
    -answer not presented because of the answer to #13-

    27. Payment schedule for the promotional work and expenses
    -answer not presented because of the answer to #13-



Documents lcp

    Documents Requested *                          Required?Aftached Documents *
    REQUIRED: TRCC Project Budget                     E     Budget
    Worksheet (use provided template; also
    available in Resources section above)
    REQU IRED: ORGAN IZATIONAL BUDGET                 E     2024 Maona Budoet
    Attach three years of your organization's
                                                            2025 Maona Budoet
    budget to this application, including your
    current budget year. lf submitting a                    2026 tvlagna Budget
    municipal budget, please include relevant
    sections, not the entire budget
    REQUIRED: Evidence of local support and           E     Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
    community need (may include feasibility                 District Letter Of Support
    study results if applicable, press coverage,
                                                            Magna Mayor Letter of Support
    support letters from community members
    and arts & cultural organizations in your
    area, etc)(Q6)
    OPTIONAL: Attendance data and evidence
    of appropriate project size/need (Q7)
    coNSULTTNG PROJECTS (REQUtRED):
    Detailed consultant project budget by a
    qualified professional (O1 6)
    CAPITAL PROJECTS (REQUIRED): Deed                       ParcelOwnership
    or contract to purchase property or lease
    agreement either executed or pending
    agreement (O18)
    CAPTTAL PROJECTS (OPTTONAL):
    Budget plan for future maintenance and
    operating expenses (O20)
    cAPTTAL PROJECTS (OPT|ONAL):
    Architectural documents (may include site
    plan, space program, schematic design)
    (o22',)
    CAPITAL PROJECTS (REQUIRED):                           Magna Neighborhood Park Pickleball
    Construction information documents,                    Quote
                                     a
        professional, master construction budget by
        a qualified professional. (O23)
        TOURTSM PROMOTTON (REQUTRED):
        Detailed project budget

*
    ZoomGranfsrM ls not responsible for the content of uploaded documents.

                                                    Application lD:501598
                                                     Beomeail.1..         :l ,-   onFa@b@k
                                                Proums? Contact us at :   :. - aZ:: --. , ,: :: -
                                                 O2m2-2025 GEnlAnalyst.@m. All rights resiled.
                                     "Z@mGEnts" and the Z@trGrants logo aG iEdmarks of GGntAnafyst.cm,   LLC.
                                                                    ,l
 EXHIBIT B
Program Budget
  *3b'[,if{+                                            TRGC Project Budget Worksheet



   Project Summary:                                                                                                                           Date:     Junc 9, 2025

        TotalProject Budget                         s             67 645                   100.00%                                   Proiect Name:      Magna Noighborhood Park Pickleball Court

        Grant Match. Secured                        $             15,911                    25.00%                    Municipality / Organization:      City of Maqna
        Other Funding Sources                       $-                                       0.00%
                                                                                                                                    Contact Name:       Amariah cibbs
        TRCC Grant, Requested                       g            50,733                    75.O0%
                   Projected Surplus/(Def icit)     $                  (0)                                                           Contact Email:     aaibbs@mrd.urah rov



   Project Budget:

                                                        Proroctrd Co3t                                                                         Oetail

        Conshuction                                 $             61,495      Site prep, concret€, bncing, sports surface Daint. Dosunet svstem ,liqhtinq
        Continqenca                                 $              6,150




                       Total Project Budgst         $             67,645




  Project Funding Sou.ces (Excluding TRCC):

                                                                                                             Total                                                      Oetail

        Fund   Bslsnco                              S            16 g1i                                $             16   9'l1   Citv of Maona Budqet
                                                                                                       s
                                                                                                       $
                                                                                                       $
                                                                                                       $
                                                                                                       $
                                                                                                       $

           Total Proiect Funding Sources           3l6.elrt-l_________jjj1


J:\TRCC\fo.ms\2026\Ma8na City Neithborhood Park pickteba Court TRCC project Bud8et worksheet 2603121
                                                                                                                                                                                                   u pdated: 03/11/26
