MAGNA
ORDINANCE 19-05-03
GEOGRAPHIC INFOR MATION SYSTEM (GIS) DATA REQUIREMENTS FOR
SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT
AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL AMENDING
MAGNA CODE TITLE 18: “SUBDIVISIONS,” CHAPTERS 16: “FINAL PLAT’ AND 24:
“REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS’ TO ADD REQUIREMENTS FOR GEOGRAPHIC
INFORMATION SYSTEMS (GIS) FILES SUBMISSION AS A PART OF THE FINAL
SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL PROCESS
WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township ("Magna") is a municipality ("city") pursuant to
Utah Code 10-2a-401, et seq; and
WHEREAS, the use of Geographic Information Systems ("GIS") is how municipalities
map their public infrastructure to identify and to provide upkeep and maintenance of these
assets; and
WHEREAS, requiring developers to provide Magna with the GIS information for new
subdivisions and developments allows Magna to identify future maintenance needs and costs as
the city grows;
NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Council of Magna, in the State of Utah, as
follows:
SECTION 1: ADOPTION “18.16.020 Final Approval - GIS Data Required” of the
Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
18.16.020 Final Approval - GIS Data Required( Added)
Page: 1

A. Prior to the final approval and the issuance of any building permit associated with a
subdivision or development plan, or in the case of a single lot development, a single building
permit, the owner or developer shall provide to City a GIS data corresponding to the approved
plans for all improvements required by Chapter 18.16.020(B). Any changes during construction
will require additional GIS data to be submitted with the final approved as-built drawings. All
GIS data shall be submitted in the following format: 1. All GIS data shall be submitted in

conformance with County Policy 1013, “Standards for Geographic Information System” and the
“Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering GIS Standards,” as approved by the Salt Lake
County GIS Steering Committee and on file with Salt Lake County Engineering, The City
reserves the right to reject any GIS data that is provided and is not in compliance with the above
standards. 2. This shall be done at the developer or owner's expense. If a developer or owner does
not provide the required GIS data, the City may complete the work in the developer or owner's
behalf and the developer or owner shall pay to the City the cost of completing the work at the
hourly rate approved by the Council for such work. If developer or owner fails to pay for such
work, the City may pursue legal action to recover these costs. 3. Developers with a cost as
estimated by the public works department of ten-thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less may, prior
to construction, petition the Division for an exemption from the GIS requirements of this
Chapter. The decision of the Public Works Director shall be final. B. GIS data will be required for
the following improvements: 1. Roadway system: Regulatory signs, street signs, centerlines, curb
and gutter, sidewalks, crosswalks, ADA ramps, striping, road width, and monuments; Streetlights
and signals (including conduit and electrical boxes for streetlights and signals) 2. Storm drain
system: Catch basins, manholes, detention basin inlets and outlets, culverts, detention basin area,
stormwater quality

SECTION 2: AMENDMENT “18.24.040 Street Improvements” of the Magna
Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:

AMENDMENT
18.24.040 Street Improvements
A. The subdivider shall submit a complete set of construction plans and profiles of all

streets, existing and proposed, within the subdivision to the planning and development

services division. Plans and profiles are to be prepared by a Heensed professional

engineer in the State of Utah and not in the employ of the eountycity, or city's contracted

entity and shall be accompanied by the final plat. The subdivider must also provide all

GIS data corresponding to the submitted plans as required by Magna code section

18.16.020. The planning and development services division shall, within a reasonable

time not to exceed twenty days from the receipt of the plans and profiles, notify the

subdivider of approval, and in case of disapproval the reasons therefor.

B. At least ten days prior to the commencement of construction, the subdivider shall
Page: 2

furnish to the planning and development services division three complete sets of
approved construction plans and profiles of all streets, existing and proposed, as well as
all corresponding GIS data compatible with this ordinance. Such plans and profiles shall
include:

1. The designation of limits of work to be done;

2. The location of the bench mark and its true elevation according to eounty
datumSalt Lake County Policy 1013, "Standards for Geographic Information
System" and the "Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering GIS Standards,”
all profiles to_in those standards-betreferred+ethat datum;

| 3. Profiles which indicate the finished and existing grades for each side of the
| street. Separate profiles, clearly designated, shall be made for each side of the
street;

4. Construction plans which include the details of curb and gutter and street cross-
sections, location and elevation of manholes, catchbasins and storm sewers,
elevations and location of fire hydrants and any other detail necessary to simplify
construction;

5. Complete date for field layout and office checking;

6. On curb returns, at least two additional control points for elevation besides
those at points of curvature. Control points shall be staked in the field to insure
drainage at intersection;

7. The street address of the project_as approved by the County, County Planning
Number and subdivision name if applicable.

SECTION 3: AMENDMENT “18.24.070 Street Lighting” of the Magna
Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:
AMENDMENT
18.24.070 Street Lighting
Except as provided for in subsection E below, adequate street lighting shall be provided for the
safety and welfare of residents and businesses located in Salt-Lake-Gountythe City through the
installation of a street lighting system as part of subdivision development.
All street lights intended to illuminate the public street shall be installed in accordance with the
"Standard Specifications for Street Light Construction" as established and approved by the public
works operations director or designee. Street light systems shall be designated on approved plats
and installed accordingly.
Page: 3

A. For all residential, multi-family residential, planned unit development, commercial, and
industrial subdivision developments approved after the effective date of this ordinance,
the subdivider shall install and pay the installation costs for street lights as shown on the
approved subdivision plat or site plan and to post a bond, pursuant to section 18.24.170,
guaranteeing proper installation. The subdivider must also provide a dedicated public
utility easement from each respective underground power source to each streetlight.

B. Items to be approved pursuant to the requirements of the "Standard Specifications for
Street Light Construction" include:

1. Appropriate distance or spacing;

2. Alternating sides of street, when applicable;

3. Appropriate illumination at intersections;

4, Location upon the property;

5. Street light type and decorative style based on street classification;

6. Height based on location;

7. Installation methods and requirements; and

8. Illumination intensity, electrical specifications, and code requirements as
determined by the "Standard Specifications for Street Light Construction”.

C. The subdivider or designee shall submit completed as-built drawings and the GIS data
corresponding to the as-built drawings, as required by this Chapter, to the public works
operations director or designee within thirty days of the completion of the installation of
a street light system within a subdivision development.

D. The public works operations director or designee shall have the authority:

1. To enforce this section and to ensure that street light installation is completed in
compliance with all of its requirements; and,

2. To vary the standards referenced in this section and to approve alternative street
light designs and locations when adverse topography, roadway geometrics and
design, the presence of natural vegetation, or any other adverse conditions exist
which would justify such variations and alternatives without being detrimental
to the public safety or welfare.

E. The planning commission shall have the authority to waive or modify the requirement
for street light installation in subdivisions upon finding that:

1. The subdivision is located in an environmentally sensitive area, such as the
Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone; or,

2. The subdivision will result in three or fewer new lots; or,

3. The subdivision will not result in any other public street improvements.

SECTION 4: AMENDMENT “18.24.150 Construction Of Improvements” of the
Magna Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:
AMENDMENT
18.24.150 Construction Of Improvements
Page: 4

A. Twenty-four hours prior to construction of any required improvements, the eountycity
planning and development services division shall be notified so that proper inspection
may be provided and so that it may be determined whether or not proper authorization
and/or required permits for construction have been obtained.

B. As-built plans,ameprofile drawings, and corresponding GIS data shall be furnished to the
planning and development services division of all street improvements, storm sewer,
sanitary sewer and water systems upon completion. The eewntycity shall retain the
improvement bond until such plans have been submitted.

C. Extreme care should be exercised on the part of the subdivider, the contractor and all
other associated agencies for the protection and maintenance of all existing or newly
placed improvements or facilities within the roadway sections during development.

SECTION 5: AMENDMENT “18.24.170 Performance Bonds” of the Magna
Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:
AMENDMENT
18.24.170 Performance Bonds

A. In lieu of actual completion of the improvements listed in this chapter, subdividers
mraymust file with the eotntycity a surety or cash bond, an escrow agreement, or a letter
of credit in an amount specified by the mayor or mayor's designee to assure actual
construction of such improvements within a two-year period. Fwenty-fiveA percentage,
equal to the maximum amount allowed by state Jaw, of the bond amount for public
improvements such as curb, gutter, sidewalk, road surfacing, flood control and fire
hydrants shall extend for a one-year period beyond the date the improvements are
completed to guarantee replacement of defective public improvements. AFwenty-five
percentage, equal to the maximum amount allowed by state law, of the bond amount for
live plant materials in common areas shall extend for the maximum period allowed by
state lawatwe~-year-period beyond the date of planting to guarantee replacement of
diseased or dead plants. The bond or agreement shall also secure all lot improvements on
individual lots on the subdivision which are required in this chapter.

B. If the mayor or mayor's designee determines that the required improvements should be
completed in a specified sequence and/or in less than this atwe-yearperied-in order to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the eowntycity_or its residents from traffic, flood,
drainage or other hazards, it may require in approving the final subdivision plat that the
improvements, including required landscaping be installed in a specified sequence and

period which may be less than two years and shall incorporate such requirements in the
bond.
Page: 5

C. Inspections shall be made within five days from the date of the request. If inspection
shows that-eounty_city standards and specifications have been met in the completion of
such improvements, the bond shall be released by the mayor or mayor's designee within
seven days from the time of inspection and filing of the as-built plan, any corresponding
GIS data (as required), and profile drawings. If the bonds are not released, refusal to
release and the reasons therefor shall be given the subdivider in writing within seven
days from the time of the inspection.

D. Such bonds shall be processed and released in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Chapter 3.56 of this code.

SECTION 6: EFFECTIVE DATE This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect
from? /Z-/ and after the required approval and publication according to law.
—=
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE MAGNA COUNCIL fate
AYE NAY ABSENT ABSTAIN

Councilmember Ferguson A

Councilmember Hull x

Mayor Peay X

Councilmember Peel N

Councilmember Prokopis 0
Presiding Officer Attest

. Hey Wl. P AJ, be . ae
Dan W. Peay, Mayor, Mag Sherrie Swensen, County Clerk/
Metro Township Clerk-Recorder
Magna
APPROVAL AS TO FORM: Ordinance published in newspaper:
Date:
PAUL H. ASHTO Effective date of ordinance:
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY Th | i V4 Z 7 q
Page: 6

SUMMARY OF
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. 19-05-03
On the_/4 —‘day of _X LAs , 2019, the Magna Metro Township Council adopted
Ordinance No. 19-05-03, an ordinance approving the certain sections of Title 18: "Subdivisions," Chapters
16: "Final Plat" and 24: "Required Improvements” of the Magna Code to require developers to provide
geographic information system data (GIS data) as a part of the final subdivisions plat approval process.
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP:
By: __ bu ZG LOL
DAN W. PEAY, AMayor
ATTESTED:
Ly ee Sree
Sherrie Swensen, Salt Lake County Clerk
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder
Voting:
Councilmember Ferguson voting A hs < nt
Councilmember Hull voting A } E
ZZ
Mayor Peay voting 4 Vi Z
Councilmember Peel voting A V, [Zs
Councilmember Prokopis voting A, ip ba
A complete copy of Ordinance No. / 9-09 is available in the office of the Salt Lake County
Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.
