MAGNA
ORDINANCE 19-05-01
FLOOD CONTROL AND WATER QUALITY AMENDMENTS
AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL REPEALING TITLE
17:“FLOOD CONTROL AND WATER QUALITY’ AND REPLACING WITH TITLE 17:
“CITY FLOOD CONTROL AND WATER QUALITY”

WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township ("Magna") is a municipality pursuant to Utah
Code §§ 10-2a-401 et seq; and

WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township Council (the "Council") is the municipal
legislative body for Magna pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-501; and

WHEREAS, the Salt Lake County Engineer is Magna's Engineer pursuant to Utah Code
§ 10-3c-203(2)(a)(iv); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Salt Lake County Code 17.20.030, Magna receives its flood
control and municipal stormwater program services by agreement with Salt Lake County; and

WHEREAS, to promote efficient and effective work, and to promote certain legislative
intent under state law, it would be beneficial for Magna to simply adopt code that adopts Salt
Lake County's Title 17: Flood Control and Water Quality as Magna's code; therefore be it

RESOLVED, the Magna Metro Township Council hereby ordains as follows:

SECTION 1: REPEAL “Title 17 FLOOD CONTROL AND WATER QUALITY”
of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby repealed as follows:

REPEAL
Chapter 17.04 ADMINISTRATION
17.04.010 Flood Control And Water Quality Division--Created
There is created within the department of public works of the county a flood control and water
quality division, referred to in this title as the "division." The division shall, through the director
of public works, assist the county in the discharge of its responsibilities to gather, control and
dispose of storm drainage and floodwater and to conserve such water for beneficial and useful
purposes, and maintain a water quality management program. The division shall administer all
county ordinances pertaining to drainage, flood control and water quality management planning.
17.04.020 Flood Control And Water Quality Division--Director--Duties
Page: 1

There is created the office of the director of the division of flood control and water quality. The
director shall supervise and control, and be responsible for the satisfactory completion of all
duties of the division and of the director, as set forth in this chapter. The engineering division

| director may be the flood control division director. The division shall:

A. Maintain a twenty-year master plan outlining, in general, long-range requirements for
planning, designing, constructing, managing, operating and maintaining facilities in the

county for the carrying away and safe disposal of stormwaters and floodwaters and for
the preservation and enhancement of water quality;

B. Maintain a six-year capital improvements plan outlining financial needs, scheduling of
construction and management programs which will implement the twenty-year master
plan. The plan and the twenty-year master plan shall be submitted by the director of
public works through the mayor on or before August 15th of each year for review,
correction and adoption by the county council for funding;

C. Prepare and submit to the director of public works and the mayor on or before
September 15th of each year an annual element of the capital improvement plan
outlining, by proposed budget line items, work activities and expenditure of funds
required to complete the current annual element of the approved capital improvement
plan;

D. On or before January 1st of each year prepare a management plan, outlining by project
and program, management agency responsibilities, schedules and proposed interlocal
agreements and contracts necessary to carry out the budget for the current year and
administer all county ordinances pertaining to flood control and water quality;

E. Provide to all municipal governments an annually updated map and list of flood control
facilities maintained in each city and that portion of the annual management plan which
relates to the activities of the division to be carried out in the respective city;

F. Provide for ongoing maintenance program and direct the cleaning and maintenance of
natural channels, ditches, open drains and stormdrains which are included in the storm
drainage and flood control system. Work in open channels and creeks where fisheries
exist shall be limited to that necessary to remove immediate threats of flooding and
existing rights shall be protected as specified in Section 17.08.050 in this title;

G, Pursue action before the Utah Legislature, in cooperation with other affected agencies,
required to achieve effective water quality management or for effective flood control
management as directed by the mayor;

H. Attend, at the request of the mayor, meetings or conferences dealing with water quality
management or with the gathering, control and disposal of stormwater and floodwater
within the county;

I. Determine the type and amount of storm drainage and flood control works which are
needed within the county, and establish comprehensive sets of plans and specifications
for the works and have such plans and specifications readily available for public
inspection;

J. Arrange for public hearings regarding the installation of pipelines or other storm
drainage facilities and such hearings as are required for administration of the Water
Quality Management Plan;

Page: 2

K. Coordinate policies and water quality management plan implementation with other
area-wide water quality programs, air quality programs, solid waste disposal planning,
etc., which are the responsibility of the Salt Lake Valley health department;

L. Seek and obtain loans and grants for comprehensive water quality management planning
by designated agencies and administer the same on behalf of the county in conjunction
with designated management agencies;

M. Upon request, assist the mayor and all local agencies concerned with flood control, storm
drainage, and water quality in communicating with state and federal government
agencies;

N. Upon request, provide assistance to local entities in preparing and processing grant
applications for flood control, storm drainage and water quality improvement projects;

O. Sponsor research and/or supervise contract research and development, in cooperation
with appropriate management agencies, to develop best management practices (BMPs)
in nonpoint source pollution control;

P. Assist management agencies in evaluating and improving water quality monitoring,
testing and permit compliance activities;

Q. Continually review new research in water quality which may be conducted by
universities, industries or government/nonprofit agencies, and assure the availability of
new information or developments to local agencies and organizations;

R. Conduct other activities and perform such other duties as directed by the mayor;

S. Establish criteria, engineering and otherwise, whereby applicants for building permits
may be aware of, and plan for, the drainage requirements which must be met as a
condition to receiving the division's approval for such permit.

17.04.030 Flood Control And Water Quality Division--Staff

The director of the division shall recommend the employees and staff necessary to discharge the

duties of the division. The number of employees and their respective salaries and qualifications

shall be established each year as part of the budget process in conformance with the merit system

and personnel policies of the county.

17.04.040 Planning And Development Services Division--Responsibilities

The planning and development services division shall be responsible for the administration of

drainage requirements for new development in the unincorporated territory of the county,

including the collection and disposition of drainage fees and bonding. This section shall

supersede any provisions in Sections 17.04.010 through 17.04.030 and Chapters 17.08 through

17,32 of this title placing such responsibilities with the flood control division.

Chapter 17.06 JORDAN RIVER SUB-BASIN WATERSHED MANAGEMENT COUNCIL

17.06.020 Purpose Of Provisions

The purpose and intent of this chapter is to (1) facilitate the performance of the responsibilities

of the county with regard to its role as the area wide water quality planning agency for Salt Lake

County and with regard to its countywide flood control authority, and (2) facilities more effective
Page: 3

communication and cooperation among the various government agencies which have
jurisdiction over and share responsibility for the management and regulation of the Jordan River
and its tributaries which flow through Salt Lake Valley.

17.06.010 Findings

A. Pursuant to the provisions of the Clean Water Act and the Utah Water Quality Act, the
county has been designated and approved as the area wide water quality planning agency
for Salt Lake County by the governor of the state and by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency. Pursuant to state statutes, the county also has
countywide responsibility for flood control on all natural channels and flood plains,
including the Jordan River and its tributaries.

B. The county recognizes that numerous federal, state and local government agencies have
jurisdiction over and share responsibility for the management and regulation of the
Jordan River and its tributaries which flow through Salt Lake Valley and which provide
multiple uses, including flood control, wildlife and fishery habitat, recreation, and water
supply for irrigation and other purposes.

C. A need exists for increased communication and cooperation among these government
agencies in order to promote efficient planning, implementation and coordination of
management and regulatory activities pertaining to the Jordan River watershed, and also
to prevent or minimize the occurrence of conflicting or duplicative efforts. Increased
communication and cooperation among these government agencies can be effectively
assisted through the creation of an interjurisdictional advisory council specifically
designed to promote such communication and cooperation and which will assist the
county in fulfilling its responsibilities for area-wide water quality planning and flood
control activities.

17.06.030 Definitions

For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:

"Jordan River sub-basin" means that portion of the Jordan River hydrologic unit extending from

the Salt Lake County boundary with Utah County northward to the Davis County boundary,

eastward including all Wasatch Canyon environs to the Wasatch and Summit County

boundaries, and westward including all Oquirrh Canyon environs to the Tooele County

boundary.

"Watershed" means all of the combined natural sub-basin drainage units within the Jordan River

sub-basin, listed and on file with Salt Lake County. It includes designations for canyon and urban

watersheds as single management units which contribute flow to the Jordan River and water

storage to the Great Salt Lake.

17.06.040 Creation Of Management Council

There is established as an advisory council to Salt Lake County, named the "Jordan River sub-

basin watershed management council," hereafter referred to in this chapter as the "management
Page: 4

council.”

17.06.050 Duties Of Management Council

The management council may meet as often as deemed necessary, according to current planning
and management needs, and shall:

A. Prepare an annual report, in coordination with all government agencies represented on
the council, which addresses activities along the Jordan River and contributory
watersheds relating to: Water quality and pollution control, flood control, parkway and
other development, wildlife habitat and wetland conservation, and proposed plans to
effectively manage and regulate these activities;

B. Review and evaluate development proposals within the flood channel, flood plain,
meander corridor, wetlands, and other areas of important riparian resource value along
the Jordan River, and evaluate potential impacts of such proposals;

C. Recommend and prioritize planning activities to address or mitigate impacts of
development proposals, and coordinate among the parties to effectively review, monitor
and evaluate the progress of plan implementation;

D. Coordinate and integrate the interests of parties which may be impacted by proposals for
development or mitigation, and assist local, state and federal management agencies in the
prioritization of proposals for potential funding and cost sharing;

E. Recommend priorities for acquisition of critical water-related resources, including
wetlands, riparian corridors, meander corridors, wildlife reserves and park lands;

F. Provide legislative and public education support for present and future steam and river
corridor projects and programs, and encourage continuing review of new developments
and considerations of innovative practices in technological, legal and administrative
aspects of watershed management.

17,06.060 Composition And Selection Of Management Council Members

A. The management council established in Section 17.06.040 above shall be comprised of
one representative from each of the following government agencies:

B. A. Federal Agencies. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Regulatory Section, Bountiful, Utah;
and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Salt Lake City, Utah;

C. Utah State Agencies. Division of Water Quality, Division of State Lands, Division of
Water Resources, State Engineer (Stream Alteration Permit Program), Division of
Wildlife Resources, Division of Parks and Recreation, and Department of Agriculture;

D. Local Agencies.

1. Salt Lake County: Mayor's staff office, planning and development services
division, engineering division, public works operations division, parks and
recreation division, environmental health division, extension office, soil
conservation district, and attorney's office;

2. Municipalities, incorporated cities and towns.

Page: 5

Appointment to the management council shall be by the mayor with the advise and consent of
the county council after receiving nominations from each specific agency or municipality. Upon
appointment, each representative shall serve as a member of the council but may designate a
substitute representative for any particular meeting or other purpose. The management council
shall elect a chairperson and a vice-chairperson from among the members of the council. The
representative from the Salt Lake County engineering division shall serve as executive secretary.
Chapter 17.08 FLOOD CONTROL FACILITIES
17.08.070 Control By The County
Any and all projects which involve the drainage of stormwaters and floodwaters or which affect
the quality of water which flows through all natural channels to be performed on any such
projects, either existing or to be completed subsequent to the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this title, shall be under the control and discretion of the mayor, and shall be subject to
approval by the county council during its annual review of the budget of the flood control and
water quality management program as prepared by the division.
17.08.080 Review Of Development Plans
All plans for public and private development that will alter the natural flow of surfacewater upon
the lands involved in the development shall be submitted to the division for review and approval
prior to the commencement of work thereon. Plans for a development which will drain into a
flood control or storm drainage facility maintained by a city shall be the responsibility of that city
and submission of the plans to the division shall not be required. The city shall review such plans
to assure compliance with those provisions of Section 17.08.020 applicable to city facilities which
connect to those facilities identified in Section 17.08.040 of this chapter. The division may
require the design of erosion and sediment control or other measures to protect the capacity of
any flood control or storm drainage facilities or the quality of the water flowing through any part
of the flood control and storm drainage system as defined in Section 17.08.040. "Water quality"
or "quality of water," whenever used in this section, refers to and incorporates those definitions
and standards which are set forth in the county's then-current water quality management plan, as
established by the division.
17.08.010 Definitions
As used in this chapter:
"County facility" means any flood control, storm drainage, water quality control, or water
conservation structure, facility, appurtenance, as well as any other property owned, constructed,
maintained or controlled by or on behalf of the county, including such flood control facilities as
are identified in Section 17.08.040 of this chapter.
"Governmental entity" means the state and its political subdivisions.
"Master plan design flow" means the flow amount set by a regional or local storm drainage

Page: 6

master plan study conducted by a registered profession engineer.
"One percent annual chance flood" means the flood event having a one percent chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. The one percent chance flood is also referred to as the
"base flood" or "one hundred-year flood."
"Political subdivisions" means any county, city, town, metro township, school district, public
transit district, redevelopment agency, special improvement or taxing district, or any other
political subdivision or public corporation.
"Responsible person" means a person including the property owner and any person or entity,
including but not limited to firms, corporations, and government entities, whether as owner,
agent, or occupant, who commits, aids in committing, contributes to, causes, supports, retains, or
permits a violation of this title. Every successive owner or tenant of a property or premises who
fails to correct the violation upon or in the use of property or premises caused by a former owner
or tenant is also a responsible person. In cases where there is more than one responsible person,
the county may proceed against one, some, or all of them.
"Structure" means that which is built or constructed, an edifice, building, or wall of any kind, or
any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite
manner.
"State of Utah" means the state of Utah or any office, department, agency, authority, commission,
board, institution, hospital, college, university or other instrumentality thereof.
17.08.030 Exemptions
The provisions of the above section shall not apply to any entry or use in the course of duty by
any peace or police officer or by a duly authorized employee of the county.
17.08.050 Existing Use--Permit Not Required
No permit shall be required for any existing use of natural channels within the county for such
beneficial purposes as are approved by the Office of the State Engineer for the state; nor shall it
affect any water rights established by the State Engineer or by any court of competent
jurisdiction. No provision contained in this title shall be construed to interfere with or permit the
regulation, allocation or reallocation of water rights or water right use or of any culinary water
collection or distribution system or waters and facilities used in connection therewith.
17.08.060 Performance Bond Required
The division may require a performance bond to assure proper and timely completion of work
authorized under a permit issued pursuant to Section 17.08.020, or to assure timely completion of
improvements required under Section 17.08.080.
17.08.020 Permit--Required

Page: 7

A. Required Permits. A permit from the division is required for:

1. Any structure, encroachment, facility, or appurtenance that interferes with,
causes damage to, destroys, or uses for any purpose any county facility.

a. The county considers the following to interfere with, cause damage to,
destroy, or use any county facility pursuant to Subsection 17.08.020(A)
(1):

i. A structure, encroachment, facility, or appurtenance that
compromises the structural integrity or lateral support of a
county facility.

ii. A structure, encroachment, facility, or appurtenance that
impedes the ability of a county facility to withstand a one
percent annual chance flood.

iii, Adding, moving, or removing fill within or along any flood
control facility or channel identified in Section 17.08.040.

iv. Any structure or other encroachment that prevents access to or
along a flood control facility, as identified in Section 17.08.040,
upon property which the county has a property interest in or
that is controlled in behalf of the county.

b. The above does not constitute an all-inclusive list and the county is in
nowise limited by this list when determining what interferes with,
causes damage to, destroys, or uses a county facility.

2. Any obstruction, material, or matter of any kind in a channel or drain or within
or upon any flood control channel, reservoir, detention basin, debris basin,
spreading ground or other property over which the county has an interest, that
may operate to impede, retard or change the normal direction of the flow of
floodwaters, stormwaters, or other waters, or that may catch or collect debris
carried by such waters, or that may be carried downstream by such waters to the
damage and detriment of adjacent private or public property, or that may
degrade the quality of the water.

B. Property Owner Responsibility. This provision is applicable to all responsible persons.
The property owner is responsible for ensuring that all structures, encroachments,
facilities, appurtenances, obstructions, etc., on his or her property are properly permitted
by the division, and for ensuring his or her property's compliance with this title. To
ensure compliance with this chapter, a property owner will contact the county's flood
control division for all construction or landscaping activities within forty feet from the
top of the county facility's bank to determine if permitting is necessary.

C, Unpermitted Encroachments Prohibited. It is unlawful for any responsible person to
construct any structure, encroachment, facility, appurtenance, or obstruction covered by
Section 17.08.020 without first receiving a permit in accordance with Section 17.08.020
of this title, or to fail to remove any structure, encroachment, facility, appurtenance,
obstruction, etc. that is not in compliance with this title when requested to do so by the
county.

Page: 8

D. Permit Applications. Application for permits shall be made to the director of the division
and shall set forth the particular use desired and the purpose and duration of use. The
division may impose such terms and conditions as may be necessary to provide for the
carrying away and the safe disposal of natural stormwaters and floodwaters, and to
prevent the destruction or obstruction of any such structure, facility, appurtenance, etc.,
and to ensure the proper maintenance and restoration of any such structure, facility,
appurtenance or property. Permits shall be revocable when, in the discretion of the
director of the division, the public interest and welfare so requires.

17.08.040 Specific Facilities

A. The following facilities, wherever located in the county, including open channel sections
and sections in conduit, are declared to be part of the storm drainage and flood control
system and are subject to the provisions of this chapter relating to such facilities:

i. The Jordan River;
2. City Creek;
3. Red Butte Creek;
4, Emigration Creek;
5. Parley's Canyon Creek;
6. Mountain Dell Canyon Creek;
7. Lamb's Canyon Creek;
8. Mill Creek;
9. Neff's Creek;
10. Big Cottonwood Creek;
11. Little Cottonwood Creek;
12. Dry Creek from Bell's Canyon Reservoir to Jordan River;
13. Big Willow Creek;
14. Little Willow Creek;
15. Corner Creek;
16. Beef Hollow Creek Downstream from Camp Williams Boundary;
17. Wood Hollow Creek Downstream from Camp Williams Boundary;
18. Rose Creek;
19. Butterfield Creek;
20. Copper Creek;
21. Midas Creek;
22. Bingham Creek;
23. Barney's Creek;
24. Harker's Canyon Creek;
25. Coon Canyon Creek;
26. Utah Lake Distributing Company Canal;
27, Utah and Salt Lake Canal;
28. South Jordan Canal;
29. North Jordan Canal;
30. Kennecott Canal;
31. Riter Canal;
Page: 9

32. Kersey Creek;

33. C-7 Ditch;

34, Lee Creek;

35. 8000 West Drain—Utah and Salt Lake Canal to C-7 Ditch;

36. Kearns-Chesterfield Drain—Utah and Salt Lake Canal to Jordan River including
Decker Lake;

37. Lee Drain—Lee Drain Pump Station to Lee Creek;

38. Goggin Drain Surplus Canal to Great Salt Lake;

39. Surplus Canal;

40. 2700 West Drain—North Jordan Canal to I-215 Drain;

41. ]-215 Drain—4700 South to 4100 South and 2700 West Drain to Decker Lake;

42. 4100 South Drain—3200 West to Jordan River;

43. 4700 South Drains—South Jordan Canal to J-215 Drain and North Jordan Canal
to Jordan River;

44. 3200 West Drain—4700 South to 4100 South;

45, 5400 South Drain—Utah and Salt Lake Canal to Jordan River;

46. City Drain, West Branch from CWA 2 Drain to Sewage Canal;

47. Sewage Canal from City Drain to Great Salt Lake;

48. CWA 2 Drain from CWA 1 Drain to West Branch City Drain;

49. CWA 3 Drain from Brighton Canal Extension to CWA 2 Drain;

50. CWA 1 Drain from Roper Yard to CWA 2 Drain;

51. 4th Avenue Drain—Virginia Street to City Creek;

52. 8th South Drain—East High School Detention Basin to Jordan River;

53. 7200 South Drain—East Jordan Canal to Jordan River;

54. 9000 South Drain—Sandy Irrigation Canal to Jordan River;

55. Salt Lake City Canal to Red Butte Creek;

56. East Jordan Canal;

57, East Jordan Canal Extension;

58. 2700 South Storm Drain—Nibley Park Outfall to Mill Creek.

B. If not owned by the county, the rights of the county in and to canals and storm drains
specified above are limited to those included in specific agreements for their use with the
owners of such facilities.

C. The provisions of this chapter shall also apply to the following classes of facilities:

1. All collection storm drains and subsurface collection systems installed in
dedicated easements and other easements in which the county has a legal
interest, and located in the unincorporated county area;

2. All collection storm drains and subsurface collection systems installed in
dedicated easements and located in the incorporated areas of the county through
contracts and agreements specifically outlining duties and responsibilities of the
city and county on each facility.

17.08.090 Replacement And New Bridges And Culverts--Design Criteria
Page: 10

A. Replacement and new bridges or culverts on the natural tributaries and open man-made
channels, except irrigation canals, listed in Section 17.08.040, shall be sized for a
frequency based on consideration of the benefits and costs derived from the
improvements. As a minimum all such bridges and culverts shall be designed to pass the
greater of the one percent annual chance flood discharge or the stormwater master plan
design flow, where a master plan for the flood control facility has been adopted by the
director of the division of flood control and engineering, unless the division director
shall deem such level of protection unwarranted. In addition to the design flow,
consideration shall be given to the freeboard necessary to pass debris and accommodate
bed load and bulking.

17.08.100 Enforcement And Penalties

All enforcement of these provisions shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 17.32 of this
title.

Chapter 17.10 JORDAN RIVER FLOOD CHANNEL MANAGEMENT

17.10.010 Findings

A. The Jordan River in Salt Lake County is a dynamic landform continually undergoing the
processes of bank erosion, long-term channel bed degradation, bridge scour, sediment
deposition and meander migration. Potential flooding hazards along the river corridor
are directly related to natural erosion and sedimentation processes that are part of the
river's natural dynamics and also to human activities that include channel straightening,
urbanization of the watershed, and changing land use within the river corridor.

B. The Jordan River has experienced both episodic and gradual channel movement
throughout the past one hundred thirty-six years. The most recent episode of severe
bank erosion and channel movement occurred during the 1983—1987 floods. Recent
studies indicate that channel instability hazards along the river will continue to occur and
may increase in severity with changing flow regimes and hydrologic cycles, such that a
completely stable slope and channel pattern will never occur.

C. In order to better provide for the protection and use of the Jordan River channel for
storm drainage and flood control, it is necessary and desirable to adopt a county-wide
management plan designed to promote greater channel stability within the flood channel
corridor.

17.10.020 Purpose Of Provisions
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the county by adopting regulations designed to:

A. Establish the boundaries of the Jordan River flood channel under the statutory
jurisdiction of the county for purposes of county-wide flood control;

B. Provide for the protection and use of the Jordan River flood channel located within both
the unincorporated county and the incorporated municipalities within the county;

Page: 11

C. Provide for the most effective expenditures of public funds for flood control projects on
the Jordan River;

D. Minimize damages due to flooding and the resulting need for expenditures of public
funds for relief and rescue efforts which must be undertaken as a result of the
encroachment of incompatible development and land uses within areas subject to erosion
and flooding by the Jordan River;

E. Ensure that those who occupy the areas within the Jordan River flood channel assume
responsibility for their actions which may increase flood or erosion hazards to their own
property or to the property of others.

17.10.030 Definitions

As used in this chapter:

"Channel instability hazard(s)" means any or all of a variety of problems affecting river channel
stability including, but not limited to, bank erosion, long-term channel bed degradation, bridge
scour, sediment deposition and meander migration.

"Channel meander" means lateral movement of the river by various fluvial processes including
erosion and deposition at bends, the shift of a channel to form chutes and islands, and the cutoff
of a bend to form oxbow lakes,

"Construction" or "development" means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling,
grading, paving, excavating or bank stabilization activities.

“Long-term channel bed degradation" means a significant erosion problem affecting river
channel stability, characterized by progressive channel scour which lowers the channel bottom,
causing a variety of channel stability problems such as undercutting of channel banks,
destabilizing of bank vegetation, and undermining bridge piers and utility crossings.

17.10.040 Applicability

A. The regulations in this chapter are applicable to all lands within the Jordan River flood
channel located within the unincorporated county and the incorporated municipalities in
the county.

B. The boundaries of the Jordan River flood channel are established and designated to be
those coinciding with the "meander corridor" as shown on the channel meander/bend
migration corridor maps on file with the county engineering division. The location and
dimensions of these boundaries are identified in a scientific and engineering report
entitled "Jordan River Stability Study," December 18, 1992, submitted to Salt Lake
County by CH2M Hill, with accompanying maps and appendix, and any revisions
thereto. The "Jordan River Stability Study" is adopted by reference and declared to be
part of this chapter as if fully described and set forth herein.

17.10.050 Disputes Over Boundaries Or Mapped Hazards
Page: 12

The boundary lines of the Jordan River flood channel as shown on the channel meander/bend
migration corridor maps shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the maps and

| through photo identification. Where there is a conflict between the boundary lines illustrated on
the maps and actual field conditions, or where detailed investigations show that channel
instability hazards are not present within a particular area, the dispute shall be settled as follows:

A. The person or entity disputing the boundary or the hazard(s) present within a particular
area shall submit technical and geologic evidence to support such claim to the county
engineering division in the form of a site-specific channel stability report (see Section
17.10.080).

B. The engineering division may request various experts from federal, state or local
agencies to review the evidence and make recommendations prior to making a decision
concerning the dispute.

C. The engineering division may allow deviations from the mapped boundary line only if
the evidence clearly and conclusively establishes that the channel meander/bend
migration corridor map boundary location is incorrect, or that channel instability
hazards are not present within a particular area.

D. Any decision of the engineering division relating to either the location of the channel
meander/bend migration corridor boundary line or the hazard(s) present within a
particular area may be appealed to the mayor pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Section 17.10.140.

17.10.060 Scope And Conflict Of Laws

The regulations in this chapter shall be supplemental to, and not in lieu of, all other applicable
federal, state and local laws and regulations. Property located within the Jordan River flood
channel shall be developed and used only in conformance with the provisions set forth in this
chapter. In case of conflict between the provisions of this chapter and any other law or
regulation, the most restrictive provisions shall apply.

17.10.070 Construction Or Development--Special Approval And Permit Required

A. Before construction or development begins within any area of the Jordan River flood
channel established in Section 17.10.030, approval must be obtained from, and a special
permit issued by, the county engineering division. Application for such approval and
permit shall be made on forms furnished by the engineering division and shall include,
but not be limited to:

1. Plans drawn to scale (six copies) showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question, including existing and proposed structures,
fill, storage of materials, and drainage facilities; and

2. A description of the extent, if any, to which the river, including its bed, banks
and flood channel, are proposed to be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed construction or development.

B. It is unlawful, and punishable as a misdemeanor, for any person or entity to begin
construction or development within any area in the Jordan River flood channel without
first obtaining the approvals and permit required by this chapter.

Page: 13

17.10.080 Studies And Reports Required

Any applicant requesting approval for construction or development within any area of the Jordan
River flood channel shall submit to the county engineering division six copies of the following
studies and reports:

A. A site-specific channel stability report prepared by a registered professional engineer
experienced in open-channel flow, fluvial geomorphology, and river mechanics
identifying all known or potential channel instability hazards, originating on-site or off-
site, which may affect the particular property and any upstream or downstream
properties. This report shall include:

1. A detailed site map (scale: One inch equals one hundred feet or larger), showing
the location of the present river bed within the channel meander/ bend
migration corridor, the location of all known or potential channel instability
hazard areas, and the proposed location and setback distances for all proposed
structures;

2. An analysis of the potential effects of any channel instability hazards on the
proposed development and occupants thereof in terms of risk and potential
damage;

3. Recommendations for avoidance or mitigation of the effects of any channel
instability hazards, consistent with the purposes set forth in Section 17.10.020;

4. An analysis of the potential effects of the proposed development, including
recommended avoidance or mitigation activities, on upstream or downstream
properties, developments, and occupants thereof in terms of risk and potential
damage; and

5. A clear statement of the evidence and studies on which the recommendations
and conclusions in the report are based, including supporting information such
as aerial photographs, references with citations, and other documentation.

B. Other studies, reports and plans shall be prepared and submitted by the applicant, at
applicant's expense, as deemed necessary by the director of the engineering division
where particular circumstances may require an analysis of more specific site-related
problems involving such topics as geology, hydrology, soils, vegetation, drainage and
grading.

17.10.090 Duties Of Director Of Engineering Division--Review Of Permit Application

A. The director of the county engineering division shall be responsible to review all
applications, including studies, reports and plans, and shall determine:

1. Whether the proposed construction or development is located within the Jordan
River flood channel;

2. Whether the application, studies, reports and plans satisfy the requirements set
forth in Sections 17.10.070 and 17.10.080 of this chapter;

3. Whether the proposed construction or development is compatible with the
county's protection and use of the Jordan River flood channel for purposes of
storm drainage and flood control. In making this determination, the director
shall specifically consider the following factors:

Page: 14

a. The potential effects of any channel instability hazards on the proposed
development and occupants thereof in terms of risk and potential
damage,

b. The potential effects of the proposed development, including
recommended avoidance or mitigation activities, on upstream or
downstream properties, developments and occupants thereof in terms
of risk and potential damage,

c. The feasibility and effectiveness of proposed measures for avoidance or
mitigation of the effects of any channel instability hazards, consistent
with the purposes set forth in Section 17.10.020,

d. The public importance, benefit or necessity of the facilities and services
provided by the proposed development,

e. The compatibility and relationship of the proposed development with
the comprehensive flood channel management program for the Jordan
River and for that particular area,

f. The safe and effective accessibility to the property and the flood channel
by governmental employees and equipment for the construction,
operation, and maintenance of erosion and flood control facilities and
also for emergency operations,

g. The costs of providing governmental services during and after erosion
or flood events, including costs for construction, operation,
maintenance, and repair of erosion and flood control facilities, and

h. The compatibility of the proposed development with other applicable
county ordinances relating to the Jordan River, including but not
limited to the Jordan River Parkway Ordinance.

B. The director may, when deemed necessary or desirable, request and give consideration to
recommendations from other federal, state, or local government agencies.

17.10.100 Duties Of Director Of Engineering Division--Approval Procedure

A. Upon completion of the review process, the director of the engineering division shall
either approve or deny the permit application. Approval of an application shall only be
given upon a determination that, based on the required studies, reports, plans and other
available data, the proposed construction or development plan is compatible with, and
does not adversely affect, the county's right to protect, operate, maintain and use the
Jordan River flood channel for flood control and storm drainage purposes. Whenever
the director determines that an area is subject to flood or erosion hazards which present
an unreasonable risk to the safety of persons or property, including public property, such
area shall not be approved for construction or development unless the applicant can
demonstrate that such risk can be reduced to a reasonable and acceptable level.

Page: 15

B. If the application is approved, the director shall issue a special permit, incorporating the
application together with any additional requirements determined to be necessary to
ensure that the purposes of this chapter are met. Such requirements may include, but are
not limited to: Construction of specific erosion and flood control improvements,
location of structures, phasing of development, time schedule for completion, and
revegetation program.

C. If the application is denied, the decision of the director of the engineering division may
be appealed to the mayor pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section 17.10.140. D.
The director of the engineering division shall maintain for public inspection all records
pertaining to the provisions of this chapter.

17.10.110 Subdivisions In The Jordan River Flood Channel--County Approval Required Prior
To Recording

A. All proposed subdivision plats in the unincorporated county and in the incorporated
municipalities in the county which are located wholly or partly within the Jordan River
flood channel, as shown on the Jordan River channel meander/bend migration corridor
maps on file with the county engineering division, shall be reviewed and approved by the
county engineering division prior to their presentation to the office of the county
recorder for recording.

B. In reviewing a proposed subdivision plat, the director of the engineering division shall
follow the review and approval procedures set forth in Section 17.10.080.

C. It is unlawful, and punishable as a misdemeanor, for any person or entity to record a
subdivision plat in the office of the county recorder without first obtaining the approvals
required by this chapter.

D. Any plat of a subdivision filed or recorded without the approvals required by this chapter
is void.

17.10.120 Disclosure Required

Whenever a channel stability report required under this chapter concludes that channel
instability hazards are present, the owner of such parcel shall record a restrictive covenant
running with the land in a form satisfactory to the county prior to the approval of any
construction, development, or subdivision of such parcel, which includes the following:

A. Notice that the parcel is located within the Jordan River flood channel and that channel
instability hazards are present;

B. Notice of the existence and availability of the channel stability report for public
inspection in the county engineering division;

C, An agreement by the owner of the parcel and any successor in interest to comply with
any conditions set by the director of the engineering division to minimize potential
adverse effects of the channel instability hazards.

17.10.130 Warning And Disclaimer
Page: 16

A. Historically, large floods periodically occur in the Jordan River flood channel, resulting
in bank erosion, long-term channel bed degradation, bridge scour, sediment deposition
and meander migration. The provisions of this chapter relating to erosion and flood
protection are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and are based on scientific
and engineering considerations. It is anticipated that land within the Jordan River flood
channel will continue to be subjected periodically to hazards and damages caused by
erosion and flooding.

B. This chapter shall not create any liability on the part of the county, or any officer or
employee thereof, for any erosion or flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.

17.10.140 Appeal Procedure

A. Any applicant may appeal an adverse decision by the engineering division or its director
by filing a notice of appeal with the mayor. The mayor shall hold a public hearing on the
record and take such evidence as necessary to determine whether the decision by the
engineering division was proper under the facts and the law.

B. The mayor may designate a hearing officer to conduct the hearing and prepare
recommended findings of fact, conclusions of law, and decision. Either party may object
to the recommendations of the hearing officer by filing the party's objections and
reasons, in writing, with the mayor within ten days following receipt of the
recommendations. If no objections are received within the ten days, the mayor may
immediately adopt the recommendations of the hearing officer and issue its decision. If
objections are received, the mayor may hear additional evidence or require written
memoranda on issues of fact or law prior to issuing the final decision.

Chapter 17.12 DRAINAGE OF SUBSURFACE WATER

17.12.010 Written Permission Required

It is unlawful for any person to make any improvements in the unincorporated area of the county
where subsurface water exists within two feet of the foundation level of the improvements
without obtaining the written permission of the director of planning and development services
division, This requirement shall include, but not be limited to, subdividers; persons developing
ground for industrial and/or commercial purposes; and homeowners constructing improvements
upon their own property.

17.12.020 Minimum Standards

Before written permission is issued, the director shall insure that the following requirements are
met:

A. Test holes shall be dug upon the properties to a depth sufficient to determine the extent
of the subsurface water table in the proposed development to include the depth thereof
and any other information regarding same which may be required by the division;

B. All applicants must supply data as to seasonal high water table elevations;

Page: 17

C. All footings shall be at least two feet above the highest water table elevations; and the
type of house construction or other development shall be governed by this standard, or
by a satisfactory design approved by a licensed professional engineer which shall be
submitted to the director for approval;

D. In areas where soil conservation maps indicate high water tables, as defined in Section
17.12.010, and in all other questionable areas that might be designated as high water
tables by the director of the division, no building permits will be issued without water
table inspection during high water table season by a representative of the division or a
review of similar inspections of other properties in the same designated area;

E. The developer shall provide drainage easements to the county along all rear, side and
front lot lines for drainage purposes whenever required to accommodate subsurface
drainage facilities that are constructed in order to lower groundwater levels. The size of
the easement shall be determined by the planning and development services division and
shall in all events be a minimum of ten feet. The director shall recommend whether the
drainage easements shall be separate from other utility easements or shall be used
concurrently with the easements;

F, All grading of any kind shall be done so as to insure that the drainage is away from the
proposed improvements and in such a manner as to prevent any conveying or trapping
of water adjacent to the basement and foundation walls of the improvement.

Chapter 17.20 STORM DRAINAGE AND FLOOD CONTROL DEVELOPMENT

Article I General Provisions

17.20.010 Purpose

The purpose of this chapter is to establish and provide means, rules and regulations for the

control and discharge of floodwaters or excess waters caused by the construction of

improvements upon real property located in the county.

17.20.020 Definitions

For the purposes of this chapter, the definitions of the following terms shall apply:

"Building permit" means all permits except those issued solely for grading or for the purpose of

remodeling or repairing any preexisting building or structure, provided that no increase in

impervious surface on the property results from such permit.

"Design capacity" or "capacity of drainage systems" means the maximum volume of water per

unit of time which can be carried or accommodated by each component of a drainage system,

based upon size of the line, slope, and any other factors which affect the carrying capacity of a

line.

“Development site," "development" or "subdivision" means the total area of a subdivision or the

total area of the parcel of land on which a building permit is to be issued or the total area of

property being improved, including yard space in the case of development of a part of a land
Page: 18

parcel.
"Director" means the planning and development services director or designee.
"Division" or "planning and development services division" means the director and other
authorized agents and employees of the planning and development services division of the
department of public works of the county.
"Drainage area" means that portion of a drainage basin whose drainage or storm waters drain or
gravitate toward a natural or artificial channel, conduit, retention or detention area; upon
designation of a drainage area upon a map referred to in Section 17.20.050, "drainage area" means
each area so designated.
“Drainage basin" means that portion of the unincorporated county whose drainage or
stormwaters of the contributing area is made up of individual drainage areas; upon designation of
a drainage basin upon a map referred to in Section 17.20.050, "drainage basin" means each area so
designated.
"Drainage system" means all facilities used for conducting excess waters to, through and from a
drainage area to the point of final retention or destination, including, but not limited to, any or
all of the following: pipes, conduits, culverts, curbs, gutters, waterways, inlets, swales, ditches,
gulches, channels, retention and detention areas, and appurtenant features, as well as easements
and rights-of-way necessary to accommodate the same. In ascending order of size and capacity,
components of the drainage system include the following: unit drainage system, intermediate
drainage system, major drainage system, trunk line, natural tributary, final destination. A
drainage system may, but need not, contain all of the foregoing components.
"Excess waters" mean those waters flowing upon or across a lot, subdivision, development or
other area of real property which are created because of alteration of or building upon the natural
terrain or other increase in the impervious surface of the property, which waters are additional to
the waters which would flow upon or across the unaltered natural terrain.
"Final destination" means a natural or artificial retention area which serves one or more drainage
basins into which excess waters are discharged, without subsequent discharge into any other
drainage system, facility or retention or detention area or facility.
"Intermediate drainage system facility" means that part of the drainage system which serves one
or more single units, subdivision or development drainage system facilities, which conveys excess

g P BE Sy; y
waters from a unit or subdivision, and which is tributary to a major drainage system facility, a
trunk line, natural tributary or final destination. Facilities within this system will be designed to
fully accommodate a ten-year frequency flood.
“Major drainage system facility" means that part of the drainage system within a drainage area
which is contributed to by one or more unit and intermediate drainage systems. A major drainage
system facility is tributary to a trunk line, natural tributary or final destination.

Page: 19

"Mayor" means the Salt Lake County mayor or designee.
"Natural tributary” means that part of the drainage system contributed to by one or more trunk
ry Pp ge sy: y
lines, major, intermediate and unit drainage systems; is a natural channel, ditch or river, and
which is tributary solely to a final destination.
“One-hundred-year frequency flood" means a flood flow of the magnitude which is expected to
occur on the average of a one-hundred-year frequency or has a one-percent chance of being
equaled or exceeded during any one year. Similarly, two, five, ten and other year frequency floods
bear like definition.
"Retention" means temporary or permanent accumulation of excess waters and/or other
stormwaters, and shall include the total or partial accumulation of such waters. In the case of
partial retention, the retention facilities shall include carriage of the portion not retained to an
intermediate or major drainage system facility, trunk line, natural tributary or final destination.
"Stormwaters” means a storm or flood flow of the magnitude which is expected to occur on the
average of a ten-year frequency or has a ten-percent chance of being equaled or exceeded durin
g y' quency P g eq g

any one year.
"Trunk line" means that part of the drainage system contributed to by one or more drainage areas
and unit, intermediate and major drainage system facilities within such drainage areas. A trunk
line transports excess waters to a natural tributary or final destination.
"Unit or subdivision drainage facility" means that drainage system which drains a subdivision or
other development area and which is tributary to an intermediate or major drainage system
facility, trunk line, natural tributary or final destination.
17.20.030 Applicability
This chapter shall apply to all development in the unincorporated area of the county and within
the incorporated area of any city that shall by agreement request the county to administer this

rogram within its boundaries. This chapter shall apply to all portions of the county drainage
prog P pply Pp g
system constructed or completed from and after the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this chapter. The county, with the approval of the developer, where applicable, may include the
application of this chapter to facilities, and benefited areas served thereby, which were under
construction after January 1, 1979.
17.20.040 Owner And County Responsibility

Page: 20

A. It is the responsibility and obligation of the owner of real property to control and contain
or to discharge into a drainage system facility excess waters from storm or flood caused
by the construction of improvements upon real property in the county. Consistent with
the terms and provisions of this chapter, an owner's responsibility includes construction,
at such owner's expense, or in cooperation with other owners, or by payment to the
county of stormwater facilities impact fees as provided in Sections 17.20.710 through
17.20.760 of (1) unit drainage system facilities; (2) intermediate drainage system facilities;
and (3) major drainage system facilities, required to convey excess waters originating in
the unit or subdivision to a trunk line, natural tributary or final destination.

B. The county's responsibility is to provide, at county expense, for trunk lines required to
serve unit, intermediate and major drainage system facilities in the county, and to
maintain unit, intermediate and major drainage system facilities dedicated to the county,
trunk lines, natural tributaries and final destinations adequate to serve the various
facilities and trunk lines which are tributary to them. Additionally, the county may, but is
not obligated to, construct intermediate and/or major drainage system facilities pursuant
to Section 17.20.160. The county council, through its budget process, including review of
amounts received under Sections 17.20.170 through 17.20.220, shall establish priority
and determine each year which facilities will be constructed that year at county expense.

17.20.050 Delineation Of Drainage Basins And Areas

As soon as practicable after the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter, the boundaries
of the drainage basins and drainage areas of the county will be delineated upon a map or maps.
The work shall be done by the planning and development services division or by qualified
consultants under its direction.

17.20.060 Engineering Studies

A. The division shall cause engineering studies to be made of all drainage areas within the
county. These studies shall be made to determine the amount or volume, frequency, and
course of excess and stormwaters, and any drainage system now provided or to be
provided for the drainage and control of excess or storm waters within said areas,
including location of outfall or disposal points. Previous studies made by the county or
others shall be considered in whole or in part if applicable.

B. These studies shall from time to time be updated or amended as necessary to reflect
changed conditions. Studies in individual drainage areas, developments, proposed
subdivisions, existing subdivisions or other property may be completed by professional
engineers for private developers under the direction of the county if the county cannot
complete the studies as soon as required for development due to staff or budget
constraints.

C. In conducting the studies referred to in this section, the analysis of storm drainage flows
and facilities shall be performed by professional engineers competent in hydrology and
hydraulics and shall be in accordance with sound engineering practices. Location of
existing storm drainage facilities will be coordinated with the division.

Page: 21

D. In all cases flows shall be based upon present conditions and potential for future
development of the county, taking into consideration the current elements of the land
use master plan of the county, current as of the date of the study, relating to the drainage
basin and other relevant factors, including changes in zoning or development which are
not reflected on the master plan.

17.20.070 Control Of Development Excess Waters

The owner or developer of land to be improved or developed shall provide, at his own expense,
the unit or subdivision drainage system facilities within each development necessary for the
control of excess waters within the development. He shall also provide:

A. The intermediate drainage system facilities required to convey such stormwaters:

1. To a major drainage system facility in existence on the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter, or

2. To a major drainage system constructed after the date of the ordinance codified
in this chapter, in which case the provisions of Sections 17.20.160 or 17.20.380
shall apply, or

3. To a trunk line, natural tributary or final destination; or

B. The intermediate and major drainage system facilities required to convey such excess
waters to a trunk line, natural tributary, or final destination as may be indicated on the
drainage area map for the drainage area within which the development is located; or

C. The facilities to retain excess waters on designated portions of the land to be improved
or developed or facilities upon other lands to which the stormwaters may be conveyed
and upon which the owner or developer has legal right to retain such excess waters in
accordance with Sections 17.20.530 through 17.20.590 of this chapter; or

D. A temporary area, not part of the proposed development, to allow runoff waters to
absorb naturally until the intermediate or major drainage system is completed, in which
case the provisions of Sections 17.20.160 or 17.20.380 shall apply. Said temporary area
shall in no case be less than one-half of all the developed drainage area tributary to it; or

E. Shall meet all provisions set forth in Sections 17.20.170, 17.20.220 and one of the
following sections: Sections 17.20.180 through 17.20.210. The owner or developer shall
also be responsible for safely routing the one-hundred-year frequency flood through the
development as provided for in the county flood hazard regulations. The county retains
the regulatory and approval function specified in this chapter in connection with unit,
intermediate and major facilities constructed by an owner or developer.

Article II County Drainage System
17.20.080 Generally
The provisions of this article apply where the county installs, at its expense, intermediate or
major drainage system facilities to which intermediate or unit drainage system facilities of a
subdivision or development are connected.
17.20.090 Studies Of Needed Drainage Facilities

Page: 22

A. In connection with the studies contemplated under Section 17.20.060, the division may
designate areas where the studies shall determine the intermediate and major drainage
system facilities to be provided for the drainage and control of excess waters within the
areas and to convey such waters to acceptable trunk lines, natural tributaries or final
destinations. Previous studies made by the county or others shall be considered in whole
or in part if applicable.

B. These studies shall include a current estimate of the cost of providing the intermediate
and major drainage system facilities, and the computation of such costs shall include the
expense of the studies as well as anticipated engineering design services, construction
engineering and inspection services, land acquisition and incidental costs required to
install such facilities.

17.20.100 Design Criteria

A. In conducting the studies referred to in Section 17.20.090, the analysis and design of
storm drainage flows and facilities shall be performed by professional engineers
competent in hydrology and hydraulics and shall be in accordance with sound
engineering practices.

B. In developing the studies every effort shall be made to promote economy in the proposed
drainage design by selection of facilities for accommodating drainage flow and the use of
materials and methods of construction that provide the most advantageous balance
between the cost of the facilities and the benefits received therefrom. Innovative
approaches that reduce the overall requirement or cost of capital construction shall be
encouraged.

C. In all cases flows shall be based upon conditions of future development of the county,
taking into consideration the current elements of the land use master plan of the county
relating to the drainage area and other relevant factors, including changes in zoning or
development which are not reflected on the master plan.

17.20.110 Map Requirements
As studies and maps for individual drainage areas are completed in accordance with Sections
17.20.050 and 17.20.060 in areas where the county may construct intermediate or major drainage
system facilities, the necessary major drainage system facilities and intermediate drainage system
facilities, together with the design capacities thereof, shall be shown on the map or maps. The
map or maps shall be approved by the division and shall serve as designations of the respective
drainage area boundaries and the drainage system requirements within the area. The map or
maps will be subject to revision from time to time to conform with existing conditions, the
results of additional studies, and such other information as may be obtained from time to time.
17.20.120 Designation Of Benefited Area
The division shall designate the area to be served by the intermediate or major drainage system
facilities to be constructed by the county. The drainage area shall be designated in a manner
consistent with the provisions of Section 17.20.050. The drainage basin or area so designated
shall be referred to as the CDS (county drainage system) benefited area.

Page: 23

17.20.130 Removal Of Property From Benefited Area

Upon written request from the owner of any property in the CDS benefited area to have his land
excluded from the CDS benefited area; and (A) evidence that such land can be developed in a
manner consistent with the retention plan designated in Section 17.20.530; and (B) written
election in recordable form that the owner shall not make alterations or improvements that will
result in excess waters from storm or flood draining into the county drainage system, and that
such election is binding on successors and assigns, the owner's property shall be excluded from
the CDS benefited area. Requests for exclusion from the CDS benefited area shall be considered
until final plans and specifications are approved prior to letting of bids for the construction of the
intermediate and/or major drainage system facilities to be constructed by the county. Unless so
excluded, all land within the CDS benefited area will be subject to payment of the stormwater
facilities impact fee designated in Sections 17.20.710 through 17.20.760 as a condition precedent
to issuance of a building permit or construction of improvements upon the land.

17.20.140 Responsibility Of Owner Or Developer

A. The owner or developer of land to be improved or developed shall provide, at his
expense, the unit or subdivision drainage system facilities within each development
necessary for the drainage and control of excess waters within the development.

B. The county may undertake the construction of the intermediate or major drainage
system facilities required to convey drainage waters to an acceptable trunk line, natural
tributary, or final destination within or at the boundary of the drainage area, as may be
indicated on the drainage area or map for the drainage area within which the
development is located.

C. The developer or owner shall be responsible for the payment of a unit area drainage fee,
which fee shall be applied toward the payment of all or part of the cost of the
intermediate or major drainage system facilities constructed or to be constructed by the
county in the area in which the development is located.

17.20.150 Plans And Specifications Required

A. Prior to the final approval of a subdivision or development plan or building permit
associated with a subdivision or development plan, or in the case of a single lot
development, a single building permit, the owner or developer shall, at his expense, have
prepared by a licensed professional engineer, as required by the division, detailed plans
and specifications for the construction and installation of all unit or subdivision drainage
facilities for the control and drainage of excess water within the development, or the part
thereof for which a building permit has been requested, and the carriage of such water to
an acceptable intermediate or major drainage system facility or to a trunk line, natural
tributary, a final destination as agreed to by the division, all in conformance with the
master plan of the drainage area or drainage basin as approved by the county, together
with the estimated total costs of these facilities.

Page: 24

B. In lieu of completion of the drainage system prior to final approval of the subdivision or
development plan by the county, the developer or owner shall provide a performance
bond guaranteeing actual construction and installation of the facilities pursuant to a
schedule approved by the division director.

C. Upon completion of review and approval by the division director, the subdivision or
development plan or building permit may be given final approval; provided, however,
that building permits for individual homes, buildings or similar improvements (other
than the subdivision and intermediate drainage system facilities) may be given final
approval only if installation of the drainage facilities is complete, or if the owner or
developer gives acceptable assurance to the county that the drainage facilities will be
constructed and installed as indicated and approved. Acceptable assurance shall consist of
any one of the types of performance guarantees defined in Section 17.28.010.

17.20.220 Temporary Facilities Permitted When

A. The division shall approve temporary drainage solutions providing for on-site detention
or retention that will allow development to continue pending completion of the
intermediate or major drainage system. The temporary solutions shall provide the same
level of flood protection at all times that will be provided by the completed systems. All
extraordinary costs of temporary solutions shall be paid by the developer in addition to
the other costs and fees provided for in this chapter.

B. The division shall make the determination of the required scope of temporary facilities
or improvements prior to the issuance of a building permit or approval of a final plat or
development plan, whichever first occurs.

17.20.240 Connection To County Facility Required
Neither the county nor any other owner or developer of land in the CDS benefited area shall
subsequently construct an intermediate or major drainage system facility to serve land intended
to be served by an intermediate and/or major drainage system facility designed to serve such land
and constructed by the county pursuant to the provisions of this Article II. Any unit or
intermediate drainage system facility constructed by an owner or developer shall be connected to
the intermediate or major drainage system facility constructed by the county pursuant to this
Article II, and the owner or developer shall be responsible for payment of the fees required by
Section 17.20.280.
17,20.270 Facilities To Become Property Of County
All unit or subdivision, intermediate and major drainage system facilities and appurtenances
constructed or provided under this Article II shall, upon written acceptance by the county,
become the property of the county and the county shall thereafter operate and maintain same.
Written acceptance shall be given if the unit or subdivision, intermediate and major drainage
system facilities are constructed within the provisions of this chapter; provided, however, that
temporary or permanent retention or detention areas may be retained by the owner or developer
thereof, and such retention or detention areas may, but need not, be conveyed or dedicated to the
county.

Page: 25

Article III Private Construction
17.20.280 Generally
The county acknowledges that a private owner or developer of property may construct
intermediate or major drainage system facilities that may be used by owners or developers of
other property. The provisions of this article detail the manner in which such facilities may be
constructed by a private owner or developer and the manner and cost of connection to such
system by another owner or developer.
17.20.290 Designation Of Benefited Area
The owner or developer shall request the designation of a drainage area by the division. The
drainage area so designated shall be that area to be served by the intermediate or major drainage
system facilities to be constructed, may include areas in addition to those requested, and the
division shall consider whether additional areas should reasonably be included, especially if it
determines that an area is unlikely to be served or will be less efficiently or effectively served by
another intermediate or major drainage system facility and can reasonably be served by the
facility proposed. The drainage area shall be designated in a manner consistent with the
provisions of Section 17.20.050. The drainage area so designated shall be referred to as the DS
(drainage system) benefited area.
17.20.300 Removal Of Property From Benefited Area
Upon written request from the owner of any property in the benefited area of the owner's desire
to have his land excluded from the DS benefited area and (1) evidence that such land can be
developed in a manner consistent with the retention plan designated in Sections 17.20.530
through 17.20.590, and (2) written election in recordable form that the owner shall not make
alterations or improvements that will result in excess waters from storm or flood draining into
the drainage system, and that such election is binding on successors and assigns, the owner's
property shall be excluded by the county from the DS benefited area. Requests for exclusion from
the DS benefited area shall be considered until final plans and specifications are approved by the
division pursuant to Section 17.20.340 or sixty days prior to the letting of bids for the
construction of the intermediate and/or major drainage system facilities to be constructed by an
owner or developer, whichever is later. Unless so excluded, all land within the DS benefited area
will be subject to payment of the fee designated in Section 17.20.380 as a condition precedent to
issuance of a building permit or construction of improvements upon the land.
17.20.310 Studies Of Needed Facilities
A. In connection with the studies contemplated under Section 17.20.060, the division may
designate areas where the studies shall determine the intermediate and major drainage
system facilities to be provided for the drainage and control of excess waters within the
areas and to convey such waters to acceptable trunk lines, natural tributaries or final
destinations. Previous studies made by the county or others shall be considered in whole
or in part if applicable.
Page: 26

B. These studies shall include a current estimate of the cost of providing intermediate and
major drainage system facilities, and the computation of costs shall include the expense
of the studies as well as anticipated engineering design services, construction engineering
and inspection services, land acquisition, and incidental costs required to install the
facilities. These studies shall from time to time be updated or amended as necessary to
reflect changed conditions. Studies in individual drainage areas, developments, proposed
subdivisions, existing subdivisions or other property may be completed by professional
engineers for private developers under the direction of the county if the county cannot
complete the studies as soon as required for development due to staff or budget
constraints.

17.20.320 Design Criteria

A. In conducting the studies referred to in Section 17.20.310, the analysis and design of
storm drainage flows and facilities shall be performed by professional engineers
competent in hydrology and hydraulics and shall be in accordance with sound
engineering practices.

B. In developing the studies every effort shall be made to promote economy in the proposed
drainage design by selection of facilities for accommodating drainage flow and the use of
materials and methods of construction which provide the most advantageous balance
between the cost of the facilities and the benefits received therefrom. Innovative
approaches that reduce the overall requirement or cost of capital construction shall be
encouraged. In all cases flows shall be based upon conditions of future development of
the county, taking into consideration the current elements of the land use master plan of
the county relating to the drainage area and other relevant factors, including changes in
zoning or development that are not reflected on the master plan.

17.20.330 Map Requirements
As studies and maps for individual drainage areas are completed in accordance with Sections
17.20.050 and 17.20.060 in areas where a private developer may construct intermediate or major
drainage system facilities to be used by others, the necessary major drainage system facilities and
intermediate drainage system facilities, together with the design capacity thereof, shall be shown
on the map or maps. The map or maps shall be approved by the division and shall serve as
designations of the respective drainage area boundaries and the drainage system requirements
within the area. The map or maps will be subject to revision from time to time to conform with
existing conditions, the results of additional studies, and such other information as may be
obtained from time to time.
17.20.340 Design Of Facilities
The owner or developer shall have the intermediate or major drainage system facilities designed
by professional engineers to accommodate the excess waters within the DS benefited area. The
plans and specifications shall be submitted to the division for review and, if acceptable, approval.
17.20.350 Acquisition Of Easements And Rights-Of- Way

Page: 27

A. Easements or rights-of-way or property that must be acquired for the installation of the
intermediate or major drainage system facility shall be acquired by the owner or
developer, at the expense of the owner or developer. In the event the owner or developer
is unable to acquire any necessary easement, right-of-way or property, and upon owner's
or developer's written request, the county may negotiate to acquire the necessary
easement, right-of-way or property, failing which, the county shall (1) submit to owner
or developer a map showing an alternative route (in which event the owner or developer
will endeavor to acquire the necessary easements, rights-of-way or property for such
route), or (2) commence a condemnation action to acquire the easement or right-of-way
for the drainage system facilities.

B. Owner's or developer's written request for county condemnation shall (1) describe
efforts to acquire the easement, right-of-way or property, and (2) state the amount
offered the owner of the property. Owner or developer shall pay the county all amounts
to be paid to an owner of property for the acquisition of any easements, right-of-way or
property. The county shall be responsible for its own legal fees and costs of the
condemnation action.

17.20.360 Construction Of Facilities
Upon completion of the plans and specifications by the engineer, and acquisition of the necessary
easements, rights-of-way or property, the owner or developer shall then proceed to cause that
portion of the intermediate or major drainage system facilities to be installed, at the owner's or
developer's sole expense, strictly in accordance with the plans and specifications thus prepared
and approved. No facilities will be covered or backfilled until the same have been fully inspected
and cover or backfill is authorized by the division. If any facility or portion thereof is covered
without authorization, the division may require the facility to be reopened for inspection. The
actual interconnection of the intermediate or major drainage system facility with any other
county line shall be done by the county, or by the contractor for the owner or developer under
the supervision of the county at the expense of the owner or developer. No unit or subdivision or
intermediate drainage system facility shall be connected to a major drainage system facility until
the division has fully approved the facilities as constructed, and until satisfactory evidence has
been presented to the division showing that all bills for labor and material and all other costs of
constructing the line have been paid.
17.20.370 Inspection By Division
The division or its retained engineers shall inspect the installation and, if the facilities meet the
requirements of the plans and specifications, shall give the owner or developer notice of
acceptance. Upon completion of the facilities, the owner or developer shall assign and convey to
the county all of the owner's or developer's right, title, estate and interest in the facilities. The
county shall thereafter be the owner thereof, and shall operate and maintain the same, subject to
the provisions of Section 17.20.380.
17.20.390 Temporary Facilities Permitted When

Page: 28

The division shall approve temporary drainage solutions providing for on-site detention and
retention which will allow development to continue pending completion of an intermediate or
major drainage system facility. The temporary solutions shall provide the same level of flood
protection at all times that will be provided by the completed systems. All extraordinary costs of
temporary solutions shall be paid by the developer in addition to the other costs and fees
provided for in this chapter.

17.20.400 Connection To Facility Required

Except for the owner or developer constructing a drainage system facility pursuant to this Article
III, neither the county nor any other owner or developer of land in the DS benefited area shall
subsequently construct an intermediate or major drainage system facility to serve land intended
to be served by an intermediate and/or major drainage system facility designed to serve such land
and constructed pursuant to the provisions of this Article III. Any unit or intermediate drainage
system facility shall be connected to the intermediate or major drainage system facility
constructed pursuant to this Article III, and all owners or developers except for the owner or
developer constructing a drainage system facility pursuant to this Article III, shall be responsible
for payment of the fees required by Section 17.20.380.

Article V Retention Plans

17.20.530 Generally

The provisions of this article apply where the owner or developer elects to control all or a
portion of excess waters within a development site, development or subdivision by a permanent
or temporary retention system.

17.20.540 Plans And Specifications

A. Prior to the issuance of any building permit associated with a subdivision or
development plan, or in the case of a single lot development, a single building permit, the
owner or developer shall, at his expense, have prepared by a licensed professional
engineer, detailed plans and specifications for the construction and installation of all unit
or subdivision system drainage facilities and retention system for the control of drainage
of excess water within the development, or the part thereof for which a building permit
has been requested, and the carriage of such water to a retention area. The plans and
specifications shall include provisions for overflow of stormwaters in excess of a ten-year
frequency flood.

B. In lieu of completion of the drainage system prior to final approval of the subdivision or
development plan by the division, the developer or owner shall provide a bond
guaranteeing actual construction and installation of the facilities pursuant to a schedule
approved by the division director.

17.20.550 Rules And Regulations Adopted
Page: 29

The division may adopt reasonable rules and regulations for design requirements, review and
approval of retention plans for developments or subdivisions consisting of more than a single lot.
Such rules and regulations may address consolidation of, location of, access to, and maintenance
of retention facilities.
17.20.560 County Review
The plans and specifications shall be reviewed by the division to determine that the retention
system as designed will control the excess waters determined under the engineering studies
conducted pursuant to Section 17.20.060 and that provision is made for overflow in excess of a
ten-year frequency flood. If the retention system as designed will control the excess waters within
the subdivision or development, the division shall approve the system. If the system will not
control the excess waters, the division will specify in writing the deficiencies of the system as
designed.
17.20.570 Building Permit Approval
Upon completion of such review and approval by the division, the subdivision or development
plan or building permit for construction of the unit or subdivision drainage system facilities shall
be given final approval.
17.20.580 Temporary Retention System
In the event the retention system is intended to be temporary, the property that is drained by the
drainage facilities to be connected shall be subject to the fees charged in accordance with the
provisions of Sections 17.20.260 or 17.20.380 of this chapter.
17.20.590 Responsibility For Property And Facilities
The county shall not own or have any responsibility or maintenance obligation for drainage
facilities or retention systems constructed pursuant to this Article V, unless such facilities or
systems are conveyed or dedicated to the county and the county accepts such conveyance or
dedication and unless the county agrees, in writing or by ordinance, to undertake such
responsibility or maintenance obligation. Upon completion of construction of a retention system
constructed in accordance with this chapter, and conveyance or dedication thereof to the county,
the county shall accept such conveyance or dedication.
Article VI Administration
17.20.610 Administrative Responsibility
The planning and development services division shall be responsible for the administration and
regulations provided for in this chapter.
Article VII Stormwater Facilities Impact Fees
17.20.710 Purpose

Page: 30

The purpose of this chapter is to provide a fair and equitable means of funding the stormwater
facilities which will be necessary to service anticipated future growth and development in Salt
Lake County. The impact fees for stormwater facilities implemented through this chapter will
help achieve an equitable allocation of the costs of providing such facilities which are reasonably
related to and necessary to service anticipated future growth.
17.20.720 Impact Fees Imposed
The owner or developer of property located in one of the drainage basins for which stormwater
facilities improvements are necessary in order to accommodate new development shall pay an
impact fee to the county for that purpose. The amount of the fee shall be as set forth in Exhibit A
which is attached to the ordinance codified in this article and incorporated herein by this
reference. The fee shall be paid as a condition precedent to the issuance of a building permit or
construction of improvements upon the property in question. Where the development is a
subdivision of a conditional use, the fee shall be paid prior to the approval of the plat or plan by
the planning and development services division and such fees shall be collected by the division.
17.20.730 Service Areas
Each drainage basin, as designated in Exhibit A, is established as a separate service area with
respect to the provision of stormwater facilities.
17.20.740 Accounting, Expenditure And Refund Of Impact Fees
All of the impact fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited into a separate interest-
bearing ledger account for stormwater facilities and may only be used for that purpose. The
accounting, expenditure and refund of all such impact fees collected shall be handled by the
planning and development services division in accordance with the provisions of the Utah
Impact Fees Act.
17.20.750 Adjustment Of Impact Fee

A. The county may adjust the impact fees imposed pursuant to this chapter as necessary in

order to:

1. Respond to unusual circumstances in specific cases;

2. Ensure that the impact fees are imposed fairly;

3. Permit the adjustment of the amount of the fee based upon studies and data
submitted by an applicant as approved by the county in order to ensure that the
fee represents the proportionate share of the costs of providing such facilities
which are reasonably related to and necessary in order to provide the services in
question to anticipated future growth and development activities. The county
may also adjust impact fees to respond to a request for a prompt and
individualized impact fee review for the development activity of an agency of the
state of Utah, a school district, or charter school; and

Page: 31

4, Allow credits against impact fees or proportionate reimbursement of an impact
fee if the developer dedicates land for a system improvement, builds or dedicates
some or all of a system improvement, or dedicates a public facility that the
county and the developer agree will reduce the need for a system improvement.
No credits shall be given for project improvements as defined by the Utah
Impact Fees Act.

B. The director of public works shall have the authority to make such adjustments based
upon information submitted by the applicant and the recommendations from the
planning and development services division. The county shall allow a credit against
impact fees for any dedication of land for, improvement to, or new construction of, any
system improvements provided by the developer if the facilities are system
improvements or are dedicated to the public and offset the need for an identified system
improvement.

C. The department may adopt policies consistent with this ordinance and any resolutions
passed by the county council to assist in the implementation, administration and
interpretation of this ordinance related to stormwater facilities impact fees.

D. Ifthe applicant, person or entity is not satisfied with the director of public works'
decision, a further appeal may be made to the mayor under the procedures set forth
below.

17.20.760 Administrative Challenges And Appeals Procedure

A. Any person or entity required to pay an impact fee who believes the fee does not meet
the requirements of law may file a written request for information with the county as
provided by the Utah Impact Fees Act. Within two weeks of the receipt of the request
for information, the county shall provide the person or entity with the written analysis
required by the Utah Impact Fees Act and any other relevant information relating to the
impact fee.

B. Any person or entity residing in or owning property within the county who believes the
fee does not meet the requirements of the law or wishes to challenge the fee shall file a
written appeal within thirty days after payment of any impact fee with the director of
public works setting forth in detail all factual and legal grounds in support of the appeal.
Upon receipt of the appeal, the director of public works shall make a recommendation to
the mayor and schedule a hearing before the mayor on the appeal for the purpose of
receiving input from all interested persons. The mayor shall thereafter render a decision
on the appeal no later than thirty days after the date the appeal was filed. Any person or
entity who has failed to comply with these administrative remedies may not file or join
an action challenging the validity of any impact fee.

C. Any person or entity who was a party to an appeal under this section who is adversely
affected by the decision of the mayor may petition the district court for a review of the
decision as provided by law.

Chapter 17.22 STORMWATER QUALITY
PART I General Provisions
Page: 32

17.22.010 Purpose
The purpose of this title is to:

A. Protect, maintain, and enhance the environment of the county;

B. Establish responsibilities for controlling and managing stormwater runoff; and

C, Protect the public health, safety and the general welfare of the citizens of the county, by
controlling the discharge of pollutants into the county's stormwater system and to
maintain and improve the quality of the receiving waters into which the stormwater
outfalls flow, including, without limitation, lakes, rivers, streams, ponds, wetlands, and
groundwater of the county;

D. Facilitate the county's compliance with the Utah Pollution Discharge Elimination System
permit (UPDES) and applicable regulation, R317.8 for stormwater discharges, issued by
the State of Utah, Division of Water Quality; and

E. Allow the county to exercise the powers granted by the Utah Code, which provides that,
among other powers counties have with respect to stormwater facilities, counties may by
ordinance or resolution:

1. Exercise general regulation over the planning, location, construction, and
operation and maintenance of stormwater facilities in the county, whether or
not owned and operated by the county;

2. Adopt any rules and regulations deemed necessary to accomplish the purposes of
this title, including the adoption of fees for services and permits;

3. Establish standards to regulate the quantity of stormwater discharged and to also
regulate stormwater contaminants as may be necessary to protect water quality;

4. Review and approve plans and plats in proposed subdivisions or commercial
developments for stormwater management;

5. Issue permits for stormwater discharges or for the construction, alteration,
extension, or repair of stormwater facilities;

6. Suspend or revoke permits when it is determined that the permittee has violated
any applicable law, ordinance, regulation, or condition of the permit;

7. Take enforcement actions for violations of this ordinance or of the conditions of
the permit, including but not limited to notice of violations, consent orders,
compliance orders, or cease and desist orders. Enforcement actions may also
include the assessment of penalties;

8. Regulate and prohibit discharges into stormwater facilities of sanitary,
industrial, or commercial sewage; waters that have otherwise been
contaminated; or non-stormwater, except as allowed under the UPDES
stormwater discharge permit; and

9. Expend funds to remediate or mitigate the detrimental effects of contaminated
land or other sources of stormwater contamination, whether publicly or
privately owned.

17.22.020 Administering Entity

The county engineer shall administer the provisions of this ordinance. Nothing in this ordinance

shall relieve any person from responsibility for damages or injury to other persons or property,
Page: 33

nor impose upon the county, its officers, agents or employees, any liability for damages or injury
to other persons or property.
17.22.030 Definitions
For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply: words used in the singular
shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the singular; words used in the present tense
shall include the future tense; the word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary; and the word
"may" is permissive. Words not defined in this section shall be construed to have the meaning
given by common and ordinary use as defined in the latest edition of Webster's Dictionary.
"As-built plans” means drawings depicting conditions as they were actually constructed.
"Best management practices" (BMPs) means the physical, structural, and managerial practices,
when used singly or in combination, prevent or reduce pollution of water, approved by the
county and incorporated by reference into this ordinance as if fully set out therein. For purposes
of this title, the relevant BMPs are more particularly defined in the Salt Lake County Guidance
Document for Stormwater Management.
"Channel" means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conducts
flowing water continuously or periodically.
"County engineer” is the Salt Lake County Engineer, or authorized designee.
"Contaminant" means any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance or matter in
water.
"Discharge" means dispose, deposit, spill, pour, inject, seep, dump, leak or place by any means any
solid or liquid matter, or solid or liquid matter which is disposed, deposited, spilled, poured,
injected, seeped, dumped, leaked, or placed by any means including any direct or indirect entry
into the county separate storm sewer system.
"Easement" means an acquired legal privilege or right of use or enjoyment that a person, party,
firm, corporation, municipality or other legal entity has in the land of another.
"Erosion" means the removal of soil particles by the action of water, wind, ice or other geological
agents, whether naturally occurring or acting in conjunction with or promoted by human
activities or effects.
“Erosion and sediment control plan" means a written plan, including drawings or other graphic
representations, designed to minimize the accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a site
during construction activities.
"Illicit connections" means illegal or unauthorized connections to the municipal separate
stormwater system whether such connections result in discharges into that system.

Page: 34

"Illicit discharge" means any discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer system that is not
composed entirely of uncontaminated stormwater and not specifically exempted under Part I.B.2
of the UPDES permit.
"Land disturbance permit" means the land disturbance permit as adopted or issued by the county.
"Land disturbing activity" means any activity on property that results in a change in the existing
vegetative or non-vegetative soil cover or in the existing soil topography, including but are not
limited to, development, redevelopment, demolition, construction, reconstruction, clearing,
grading, filling, or excavation.
"Maintenance" means any activity that is necessary to keep a stormwater facility in good working
condition so as to function as designed. "Maintenance" may include complete reconstruction of a
stormwater facility if reconstruction is needed in order to restore the facility to its original
operational design parameters, and the correction of any problem on the site property which may
directly impair the functions of the stormwater system or facility.
"Maintenance agreement" means a document recorded in the land records which acts as a
property deed restriction and which provides for long-term maintenance of stormwater
management practices.
"Municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4)" means the conveyances owned or operated by
the county for the collection and transportation of stormwater, including roads and streets and
their drainage systems, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made channels, stormwater
ponds, basins, wetlands and storm drains.
“Notice of Violation (NOV)" means a notice issued to a person or entity whenever the county
engineer finds the person or entity is not complying with this ordinance. The county will order
g Pp plying
compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person. Requirements in this notice
P y P P q
are at the discretion of the county engineer, and may include monitoring, payment to cover costs
relating to the noncompliance, and the implementation of best management practices.
"Off-site facility" means a structural BMP located outside the subject property boundary
described in the permit application for land development activity.
"Peak flow" means the maximum instantaneous rate of flow of water at a particular point
resulting from a storm event.
"Person" means any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual, firm, business
entity or association and any municipal or private corporation organized or existing under the
laws of Utah or any other state or country.
"Pre-existing conditions" means the conditions of property in its native state or changed under
approval by the county.
Page: 35

"Property owner" means the land owner of property within the unincorporated area of Salt Lake

County.

"Runoff" means that part of precipitation, snowmelt, or irrigation water that runs off the land

into streams or other surface water.

"Sediment" means solid material, both mineral and organic, which is in suspension, is being

transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water, gravity or ice and has come

to rest on the earth's surface.

"Sedimentation" means the process of subsidence and decomposition by gravity of suspended

matter carried by water, wastewater, or other liquids.

"Soils report" means a study of soils on a subject property with the primary purpose of

characterizing and describing the soils. The soils report shall be prepared by qualified personnel,

who shall be directly involved in the soil characterization either by performing the investigation

or by directly supervising employees.

"Stabilization" means providing adequate vegetative or structural means to prevent erosion.

"Stormwater" means stormwater runoff, snow melt runoff, surface runoff, street wash waters

related to street cleaning or maintenance, infiltration, and drainage.

"Storm Water Design Standards and Regulations” means any current stormwater standards and

regulations adopted by the county.

"Stormwater management" means the programs to maintain quality and quantity of stormwater

runoff to pre-development levels.

"Stormwater management facilities system" means the drainage structures, conduits, ditches,

combined sewers, sewers, and all device appurtenances by which stormwater is collected,

transported, pumped, treated or disposed.

“Stormwater pollution prevention plan (SW/PPP)" means the set of drawings and other

documents that comprise all the information and specifications for the programs, drainage

systems, structures, BMPs, concepts and techniques intended to maintain or restore quality and

quantity of stormwater runoff to pre-development levels.

"Stormwater runoff" means flow on the surface of the ground, resulting from precipitation.

"Structural BMPs" means practices which refer to devices constructed to control stormwater

runoff.

"Surface water" means waters upon the surface of the earth in bounds created naturally or
Page: 36

artificially, including but not limited to, streams, other water courses, lakes and reservoirs.
"TMDL" means total maximum daily load, in accordance with a program implemented by the
Utah Division of Water Quality.
"UPDES" means the Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination System administered by the State of
Utah, Division of Water Quality in regulation R317.8.
"Watershed" means all the land area that contributes runoff to a particular point along a
waterway.
PART II Construction Sites
17.22.040 Land Disturbance Permits

A. Every person will be required to obtain a land disturbance permit from the county

engineer in the following cases:

1. Land disturbing activity generally affecting one or more acres of land;

2. Land disturbing activity affecting less than one acre of land if the activity is part
of a larger common plan of development affecting one or more acre of land;

3. Land disturbing activity affecting less than one acre of land, if in the discretion
of the county engineer such activity poses a unique threat to water or public
health or safety;

4. The creation and use of borrow pits; or

5. Processing earthen materials such as top soil and gravel screening.

B. 1. Property owners shall not alter or restrict natural channels and waterways
without proper federal, state and county permits.

2. Modifications of sensitive areas are subject to and governed by the Foothills and
Canyons Overlay Zone (Title 19.72). These modifications require a land
disturbance permit and approval from all appropriate governing agencies.

3. Property owners proposing to redirect runoff, surface or pipe flow to properties
or facilities outside county boundaries must provide written approval from the
state, county, neighboring county affected, or municipality affected.

4, Property owners are responsible for the protection of irrigation canals as
provided by the relevant sections of this ordinance.

5. Discharges into or modifications of canals require written approval from the
canal owners and applicable governing agencies.

C. Building permit. No building permit shall be issued until the applicant has obtained a
land disturbance permit where one is required by this ordinance.
D. Exemptions. The following activities are exempt from the permit requirement:

1. Any emergency activity that is immediately necessary for the protection of life,
property, or natural resources;

2. Existing nursery and agricultural operations conducted as a permitted main or
accessory use;

Page: 37

3. Any agricultural activity that is consistent with an approved farm conservation
plan or a management plan prepared or approved by the appropriate county,
federal, or state agency; and

4, Additions or modifications to existing single family structures.

E. Application for a land disturbance permit.

1. Each application shall include the following:

a. Name of applicant;

b. Business or residence address of applicant;

c. Name, address and telephone number of the owner of the property of

record in the office of the recorder;

d. Address and legal description of subject property including the tax
reference number and parcel number of the subject property;

e. Name, address and telephone number of the contractor and any
subcontractor(s) who shall perform the land disturbing activity and who
shall implement the erosion and sediment control plan; and

f. A statement indicating the nature, extent and purpose of the land
disturbing activity including the size of the area for which the permit
shall be applicable and a schedule for the starting and completion dates
of the land disturbing activity.

2, Each application shall be accompanied by:

a. A stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) providing for
stormwater management during the land disturbing activity and after
the activity has been completed;

b. A sediment and erosion control plan as part of the SWPPP; and

c. Evidence of a state UPDES general permit for construction activities
issued by the division of water quality.

3. The applicant shall obtain from all applicable state or federal agencies all
required environmental permits or approvals that pertain to the property,
including the following:

a. Compliance with water quality standards and TMDL requirements;

b. Compliance with federal or state laws pertaining to threatened or
endangered species or historic properties; and

c. Any additional development requirements or conditions required by the
county engineer in accordance with this ordinance or other applicable
law on the development of property.

4, Each application for a land disturbance permit shall be accompanied by payment
of land disturbance permit and other stormwater management fees, as
established by the county council.

F, F. Review and approval of application.

1. The county engineer will review each application for a land disturbance permit
to determine whether it conforms with the provisions of this ordinance. Within
15 days after receiving an application, the county engineer shall provide one of
the following responses in writing:

a. Approval of the permit application;

Page: 38

b. Approval of the permit application, subject to such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary to comply with the objectives of this
ordinance; or .

c. Denial of the permit application, stating the reason(s) for the denial.

2. If the county engineer has granted conditional approval of the permit, the
applicant shall submit a revised plan that conforms to the conditions established
by the county engineer. The applicant shall be allowed to proceed with his land
disturbing activity if the activity meets the conditions established by the county
engineer. No development plans will be approved until the land disturbance
permit has been approved.

G. Permit duration. Every land disturbance permit shall expire and become null and void if
substantial work authorized by such permit has not commenced within one hundred
eighty (180) calendar days of issuance, or if work is not complete within eighteen (18)
months from the date construction begins.

H. Notice of construction. The applicant must notify the county engineer ten (10) working
days before beginning construction. Regular inspections of the construction site shall be
conducted by the county engineer. All inspections shall be documented and written
reports prepared containing the following information:

1. The date and location of the inspection;

2. Whether construction complies with the approved SWPPP;

3. Variations from the approved construction specifications; and

4. Any violations.

I. Performance bonds.

1. The county engineer may, at his discretion, require the applicant post a
performance security or performance bond before a permit is issued in order to
ensure stormwater practices are met as required by the approved SWPPP.

a. The amount of the installation performance security or performance
bond shall be the total estimated construction cost of the structural
BMPs approved under the permit plus any reasonably foreseeable
additional related costs, such as for damages or enforcement activities.

b. The performance security shall contain forfeiture provisions for failure
to complete the work specified in the stormwater management plan.

c. The applicant shall provide an itemized construction cost estimate
complete with unit prices, subject to acceptance, amendment or
rejection by the county engineer.

d. The county engineer shall have the discretion to calculate or amend the
applicant's estimated cost of construction cost.

2. The performance security or performance bond shall be released in full only
upon submission of as-built plans and written certification by a registered
professional engineer licensed in the Utah that the structural BMP has been
installed in accordance with the approved plan and other applicable provisions
of this ordinance.

Page: 39

3. The county engineer shall make a final inspection of the structural BMP to
ensure it complies with the approved plan and this ordinance. A partial pro-rata
release of the performance security or performance bond based on the
completion of various development stages may be made at the discretion of the
county engineer.

17.22.050 Stormwater System Design And Management Standards

A. Stormwater design and BMP manuals.

1. The county adopts the following publications as its stormwater design and BMP
manuals, which are incorporated by reference in this ordinance:

a. Salt Lake County Standard Drawings for Drainage Systems.

b. Guidance Document for Stormwater Management of the Public Works
department.

c. Portions of Basin Plans that apply to unincorporated county.

d, Additional stormwater manuals as adopted by the county.

2. These manuals include a list of acceptable BMPs. The manuals may be updated
and expanded from time to time, at the discretion of the council, upon the
recommendation of the county engineer, based on improvements in
engineering, science, monitoring and local maintenance experience. Stormwater
facilities designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with these BMP
criteria and manufacturer's recommendations will be presumed to meet the
minimum water quality performance standards.

B. General performance criteria for stormwater management. Unless a site is granted a
waiver or determined by the county engineer to be exempt, the following post-
construction performance criteria shall be addressed for stormwater management at all
sites:

1. The design of storm drain systems within the boundaries of or discharging into
a county storm drain system shall be supervised by a Utah registered
professional engineer, and shall carry the seal of the supervising professional
engineer.

2. All systems shall be designed to permit control of the peak flow rates of
stormwater discharge associated with storm levels specified in this ordinance or
in the BMP manual and to reduce the generation of post-construction
stormwater runoff back to preconstruction levels. These designs shall to utilize
pervious areas for stormwater treatment to the extent possible and infiltrate
stormwater runoff from driveways, sidewalks, rooftops, parking lots, and
landscaped areas to the maximum extent practical to provide treatment for both
water quality and quantity.

3. To protect stream channels from degradation, specific channel protection
criteria shall be provided as prescribed in the BMP manual.

4. Stormwater discharges to critical areas with sensitive resources, such as, cold
water fisheries, swimming beaches, recharge areas, or water supply reservoirs,
may be subject to additional performance criteria, or may need to utilize or
restrict certain stormwater management practices.

Page: 40
