MAGNA CITY
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-O-12
AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL AMENDING THE MAGNA
MUNICIPAL CODE, SECTIONS 19.42.170 AND 19.48.100 TO ADDRESS
WEAKNESSES IN THE GENERAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING DRIVE-THRU
AND DRIVE UP FACILITIES
RECITALS

WHEREAS, Magna City is a municipality and has authority to regulate land use pursuant to Utah
Code Ann. Subsection 10-9a-102(2); and
WHEREAS, Drive-Thru and Drive Up Facilities are allowed in commercial and mixed use
districts subject to the use standards in Section 19.42.170 of Magna City Code; and
WHEREAS, Stacking/queuing standards for Drive-Thru and Drive Up Facilities are subject to the
standards in Section 19.48.100 of Magna City Code; and
WHEREAS, the existing standards do not adequately reduce noise, lighting and visual impacts to
residential uses abutting Drive-Thru and Drive Up Facilities; and
WHEREAS, the existing standards do not adequately regulate the location of stacking/queuing
areas associated with Drive-Thru and Drive Up Facilities; and
WHEREAS, the existing standards lacked context to adequately apply a standard requiring a
minimum distance between curb cuts and entrances to stacking/queuing areas; and
WHEREAS, the existing standards lacked the ability for the land use authority to adjust the
requirements when site constraints made strict compliance impossible; and
WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to amend its ordinances accordingly, and for the
protection and preservation of the public health, safety, and general welfare.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL as follows:
l. Section 19.42.170 and 19.48.100 of the Magna City Code is amended to read as shown in
Attachment A to this Ordinance:
yaa Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this Ordinance
is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or specific application of this
Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full force and effect.
5. Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting and publication
as required by law.

ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the Magna City Council on
this 27" Day of August 2024.
MAGNA CI
y: Erte-G-Barney, Mayor
a PE F j APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Y / of
V HU @ TH
City Recorder (]
City Attorney

Voting:
Council Member Barney voting 444
Council Member Prokopis voting
Council Member Hull voting /
Council Member Sudbury voting (24
Council Member Pierce voting ,

(Complete as Applicable)

Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code

§10-3-711: LUM SY- LT, LORY

Effective date of ordin 1AW ¢

ective date of ordinance UWS LY, FALY

SUMMARY OF
MAGNA CITY
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-O-12
On August 27, 2024, the Magna City Council Enacted Ordinance No. 2024-O-12, amending the
Magna Municipal Code, Sections 19.42.170 and 19.48.100 to address weaknesses in the general
regulations concerning drive-thru and drive-up facilities.
MAGNA CI OUNCIL
y: Er y, M
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
We WIVOUALA. We
i¢ole Smedley, Clérk/Recorde Paul Ashton, City Attorney
Voting:
Council Member Prokopis voting/
Council Member Barney votin
Council Member Hull votin
Council Member Pierce voting
Council Member Sudbury voting 74/2
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2024-O-12 is available in the office of the Magna City Clerk,
2001 South State Street, N3-600, Salt Lake City, Utah.

Attachment A:
General Drive-Thru and Drive Up Facilities Amendments

19.42.170 - Drive-Thru and Drive Up Facilities.

A. Purpose: The regulations of this section are intended to allow for drive-thru facilities by
reducing the negative impacts they may create. These impacts include noise from idling cars
and voice amplification equipment, lighting, and queued traffic interfering with on-site and
off-site traffic and pedestrian flow. The specific purposes of this section are to:

1. Reduce noise, lighting, and visual impacts on abutting uses, particularly residential uses;
2. Promote safer and more efficient on site vehicular and pedestrian circulation; and
3. Reduce conflicts between queued vehicles and traffic on adjacent streets.

B. Applicability And Permit Requirements: These regulations shall apply to all new drive-through
facilities, any rebuild or replacement of an existing structure containing a drive-thru facility
or modification to an existing building that includes altering the location of an existing drive-
through window, expands the floor area by twenty five percent (25%) or more of the gross
floor area or one thousand square feet (1,000 sq. ft.), whichever is less and/or the parking
requirement increases as required by this Title.

C. Additional Application Materials Required: In addition to the site plan and standard application
requirements, an applicant for a business with drive-thru facilities shall submit a site plan that
includes: a parking and circulation plan, driveway locations, and the placement of audio
equipment (if this type of equipment will be used).

D. Adjacent To Residentially Zoned Property: Drive-up/drive-thru windows and their stacking
lanes shall be separated from residentially zoned properties by an intervening building, a
masonry wall in accordance with Subsection 19.50.050 (B), or by a major street.

E. Capacity and design standards for drive-thru and drive-up facilities are found in Section

19.48.100.

19.48.100 - Vehicle Stacking Standards.

A. Drive-Thru and Drive Up Facility, Stacking Lane Design Standards: These standards ensure
that there is adequate on-site maneuvering and circulation areas, ensure that stacking
vehicles do not impede traffic on abutting streets, and that stacking lanes will not have
nuisance impacts on abutting residential lots.

1. Each stacking space shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20’) in length and eight feet (8’)
wide along the straight portions and ten feet (10’) wide along the curved segments.

2. To prevent stacking lanes from blocking traffic on adjacent streets, entrances to stacking
lanes shall be clearly marked and located a minimum of sixty feet (60’) from the closest
curb cut. Stacking lanes may not enter or exit directly into a public street.

3. Stacking lanes shall be designed so that they do not interfere with parking and vehicle
circulation. Stacking lanes may not block required back out areas for adjacent drive aisles
and parking spaces unless there is no other alternative for location of the building and
drive-thru lane(s) on the site.

4. All stacking lanes shall be clearly delineated from traffic aisles, other stacking lanes and
parking areas using striping at a minimum and curbing, landscaping, or signs where
appropriate.

5. Stacking lanes may not wrap around in front of the main building entrance doors unless
there is no other alternative for location of the building and drive-thru lane(s) on the site.

6. Stacking lanes are strongly discouraged between the building and the street unless there
is no other alternative for location of the building and drive-thru lane(s) on the site.

7. All drive-thru queuing lanes providing greater than nine (9) spaces shall also provide a
separate escape lane.

B. Required Stacking Capacity: These standards ensure that adequate stacking for certain land
uses is provided.

1. Adrive-thru automated teller machine (ATM) shall provide no fewer than two (2) stacking
spaces before the teller machine.

2. Acar or light truck wash shall provide no fewer than three (3) stacking spaces per lane
before the wash bay entrance.

3. Alaundry or dry-cleaning establishment with a drive thru window shall provide no fewer
than two (2) stacking spaces per lane before the drive-up window.

4. A financial institution with teller lanes shall provide no fewer than three (3) stacking
spaces per lane before the teller or drive-up window.

5. A pharmacy with a drive thru window shall provide no fewer than three (3) stacking
spaces per lane before the drive-up window.

6. Arestaurant with drive thru shall provide no fewer than eight (8) stacking spaces before
the first drive-up window. A restaurant with more than one stacking lane shall provide no
fewer than six (6) stacking spaced before the first drive-up window. Establishments where
orders are placed for food or drink in a similar manner to a restaurant shall provide
stacking in the same manner as a restaurant.

7. Uses having a drive thru window but not listed in this part are required to have stacking
lanes and stacking spaces as determined by the Director and based on the anticipated
demand for stacking spaces given existing and projected traffic and consumer patterns.

8. Astacking lane is not required for accessory facilities where vehicles do not routinely stack
up while waiting for the service. Examples are window washing, air compressor, and
vacuum cleaning stations.
