ORDINANCE NO .: \',-\         ·\-   Q\                DATE : ~~                 \4 , '2.0\1

                                    MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP

  AN ORDINANCE CREATING TITLE 11 - VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC OF THE MAGNA
  METRO TOWNSHIP CODE OF ORDINANCES TO REGULA TE WINTER ON-STREET
  PARKING , AND TO MODIFY ORDINANCE LANGUAGE TO BETTER CONFORM TO
                    THE NEEDS OF THE METRO TOWNSHIP

Be it ordained by the Magna Metro Township Council that Title 11 - VEHICLES AND
TRAFFIC, be established in the Magna Municipal Code as follows:



Title 11 - VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC

Chapters:

Chapter 11.04 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sections:



11.04.010 - Definitions .

     Whenever in this title the following terms are used, they shall have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them in this section:
     "Alley" means a public way, not designed for general travel, within a block primarily intended
for service and access to abutting property by vehicles.
     "Authorized emergency vehicles" means ambulances and emergency vehicles of the United
States, state and municipal governments as may be operated on the streets of the metro.
    "Bicycle" means every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two tandem wheels, either of which is over twenty inches in diameter, and including any
device generally recognized as a bicycle, though equipped with more than one front or rear wheel.
    "Crosswalk" means that portion of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the street measured from the
curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of the traversable roadway; also, any portion of a
roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or
other markings on the surface.
     "Crosswalk line" means a single white line, not less than six inches in width, painted on a
street marking the outlying limits of a pedestrian crossing.
    "Driver" means every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.


                                                                                             Page 1
      "Fire department" means the fire department of a municipality, or the Unified Fire Authority
or its successors.
     "Intersection" means:
     1. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or, if
        none, then the lateral boundary lines or the roadway of two streets that join one another
        at, or approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles, traveling upon
        different streets joining at any other angle, come in conflict.
    2.   Where a street includes two roadways thirty feet or more apart, then every crossing of
         each roadway of such divided street by an intersecting street shall be regarded as a
         separate intersection.
     "Limited access street, highway or roadway" means every highway, street or roadway, with
respect to which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of
access except at such points and in such manner as may be determined by the public authority
having jurisdiction over such highway, street or roadway.
     "Local Law Enforcement Agency" means the Unified Police Department of Greater Salt Lake
or its successors.
    "Motorcycle" means every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or saddle for the
use of the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground
and weighing less than one thousand two hundred fifty pounds.
     "Motor-driven cycle" means every motorcycle, including every motor scooter, with a motor
that produces more than five horsepower, and every bicycle with a motor attached.
     "Motor vehicle" means every vehicle that is self-propelled and every vehicle that is propelled
by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
    "Metro" means the Magna Metro Township.
    "Metro Council Chair" means the chairperson of the Magna Metro Township Council, or
appointed designee.
    "Metro Council" means the Magna Metro Township Council.
    "MSD" means the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, its successor, and/or any
agents contracted to provide municipal-type services for and to the Metro Township.
     "Owner" means a person who holds the legal title to a vehicle or, in the event a vehicle is
subject to an agreement for the conditional sale or lease thereof with the right of purchase upon
performance of the conditions stated in the agreement and with immediate right of possession
vested in the conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is entitled to
possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor shall be deemed the owner for the
purpose of this title.
     "Park" means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than temporarily,
for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading.
    "Pedestrian" means any person afoot.
    "Person" means every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or corporation.


                                                                                             Page 2
     "Private road or driveway" means every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission from the owner, but
not used by other persons.
     "Railroad" means a carrier of persons or property upon cars operated upon stationary rails.
     "Railroad sign or signal" means any sign, signal or device erected by authority of a public
body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the presence of railroad tracks or
the approach of a railroad train.
     "Railroad train" means a steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars coupled
thereto, operated upon rails.
     "Right-of-way" means the right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful manner in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such circumstances of direction,
speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
     "Safety zone" means that area within the crosswalk for the exclusive use of pedestrians,
bounded on two sides by the crosswalk lines and on the other two sides by yellow lines or by
physical barriers, or otherwise so protected, marked or indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly
visible at all times while set apart as a safety zone.
     "Sidewalk area" means that portion of a street or highway between the curb lines of the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines.
    "Stop" means complete cessation from movement.
     "Stop or limit line" means a single white line not less than twelve inches in width behind
which vehicles must stop when directed by a local law enforcement agency officer or traffic control
device.
    "Stop, stopping or standing when prohibited" means any stopping or standing of a vehicle
whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a local law enforcement agency officer or traffic control device.
    "Street or highway" means the entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
     "Traffic-control devices" means all signs, signals, traffic markings and devices of the state
placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purposes of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
    "Traffic engineer" means the traffic engineer of the MSD.
    "Transportation engineer" means the transportation engineer of Salt Lake County.
     "Vehicle" means every device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
11.04.020 - Applicability.

     All vehicles using the roads and highways of the metro shall be subject to the provisions of
this title. Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and every



                                                                                              Page 3
person driving an animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to such provisions as are applicable to
the drivers of vehicles, except those that by their nature can have no application.
11.04.030 - Traffic control devices.

     The MSD, pursuant to the direction of the traffic engineer, shall place and maintain such traffic
control devices upon metro roads and highways as are necessary to indicate and to carry out the
provisions of this code or to regulate, warn or guide traffic. All signs , markings and other devices
shall conform to the Utah Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
11.04.060 - Local Law Enforcement Agency-Authority.

      The Local Law Enforcement Agency is authorized to enforce the provisions of this title and
all laws regulating the operation of vehicles on the streets and highways of the metro.
l l .04.070 - Local Law Enforcement-Obedience         required.

A. It is unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
   direction of any officer of the local law enforcement agency or other special officer assigned
   to traffic duty and vested by law with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
B.   The local law enforcement agency shall direct all traffic in accordance with the provisions of
     this title, or in emergencies, as public safety or convenience may require. Except in case of an
     emergency, it is unlawful for any person not authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct
     traffic.
11.04.080 - Authority to direct traffic at scene of fire.

     The fire department officer in command, or any fireman designated by him, may exercise the
powers and authority of a local law enforcement agency deputy in directing traffic at the scene of
any fire or where the fire department has responded to an emergency call for so long as fire
department equipment is on the scene in the absence of the local law enforcement agency, or while
assisting the local law enforcement agency in discharging its duties.
Chapter 11.08 - TRAFFIC CONTROL REGULATIONS

Sections:



11.08.010 - Obedience to traffic control devices-Effect      of improper sign.

A.   Subject to the exceptions granted drivers of authorized emergency vehicles, no person shall
     disobey the instructions of any applicable traffic control device placed in accordance with the
     provisions of this title unless otherwise directed by an appropriate law enforcement officer.
B. No provision of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced against an alleged
   violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper
   position and sufficiently legible to be seen and read by an ordinarily observant person.
11.08.020 - Unauthorized traffic control devices prohibited-Removal.



                                                                                                Page 4
A. No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any highway any unauthorized
   sign, signal, light, marking or other device:
     I.   That purports to be, imitates or resembles an official traffic-control device, railroad sign
          or signal, or authorized emergency flashing light;
    2.    That attempts to direct the movement of traffic;
    3.    That hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic device or
          any railroad sign or signal; or
    4.    That is of such brilliant illumination and so positioned as to be in danger of blinding or
          dazzling a driver on any highway adjacent thereto.
B. Every such prohibited sign, signal, light or marking is declared to be a public nuisance which
   any officer of the local law enforcement agency is empowered to remove or cause to be
   removed without notice to the owner.
11.08.030 - Turning at intersections.

     The traffic engineer may require and cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or
adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct that vehicles turning at such intersections
shall turn in accordance therewith, or the turning of vehicles at certain designated intersections
may be prohibited altogether.
11.08.040 - Authority to designate crosswalks, safety zones and traffic lanes.

    The traffic engineer is authorized to:
    A. Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the surface of the
       roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in his or her opinion, there is particular
       danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at other places as he or she may deem
       necessary;
    B. To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places as he or she may
       deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians;
    C. To mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at places he or she may deem advisable,
       consistent with this title.
11.08.050 - Authority to designate one-way highways.

     The traffic engineer shall have the authority to designate by appropriate markings certain
metro roads and highways as one-way, requiring that all vehicles thereon move in one specific
direction.
11.08.060 - Prohibiting use oflimited-access highway.

     The traffic engineer may prohibit the use of any limited-access roadway by pedestrians,
bicycles or other nonmotorized traffic or by any person operating a motor-driven cycle. No person
shall disobey posted restrictions.
11.08.070 - Stop signs at dangerous railroad crossings.



                                                                                                Page 5
     The traffic engineer may designate certain highway grade crossings of railroads as being
particularly dangerous and erect appropriate regulatory signs thereat.
11.08.080 - Entering highway from alley or private roadway.

     It is unlawful to drive a vehicle from any alley, private driveway, or private road onto a public
thoroughfare without first bringing such vehicle to a complete stop within fifteen feet of the
highway, giving an audible signal, and yielding the right-of-way to all approaching vehicles and
pedestrians.
11.08.090 - Following another vehicle.

    The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than is reasonable
and prudent under the circumstances.
11.08. l 00 - Turning on crest of hill.

     No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any curve, or upon
the approach to, or near the crest of a grade, where such vehicle cannot be seen within five hundred
feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from either direction.
11.08.110 - Backing vehicle onto roadway.

     All persons backing motor vehicles from any alley or private driveway must proceed in the
direction of the lane of traffic immediately adjacent to same. No driver shall back any vehicle
unless such movement can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other
traffic.
11.08.120 - Recreational activities on metro roads.

    There shall be no sleigh riding or other recreational activities conducted upon any roads or
highways of the metro unless the county in association with the local law enforcement agency
allows such activity in restricted areas by designating same with appropriate signs and other
controls.
11.08.130 - Emergency vehicles-Right-of-way-Signals           and sirens.

A. All vehicles operated by the local law enforcement agency and fire departments, as well as
   ambulances, shall have the right-of-way over all other vehicular traffic on the highways during
   emergencies. Such vehicles shall be equipped with a siren, flashing lights, and other
   emergency equipment to make them recognizable visibly and audibly. Upon sounding or
   illuminating of same, the driver of every other vehicle then upon the highways along which
   the emergency vehicles are being operated shall immediately drive to a position parallel to,
   and as close as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway, clear of any intersection,
   and shall stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
   except when otherwise directed by an appropriate law enforcement officer.
B.   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from
     the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using the highway.
l 1.08.140 - Emergency vehicles-Following       prohibited.



                                                                                                Page 6
     The driver of a vehicle, other than one officially authorized, shall not follow emergency
vehicles traveling in response to any fire, accident, crime or other alarm, closer than five hundred
feet, or park such vehicle within the block where an emergency vehicle has stopped or in any way
block, obstruct or interfere with the free ingress or egress of emergency vehicles.
I 1.08.150 - Funeral processions.

A. It is unlawful for any person to drive or cause any vehicle to be driven so as to break the
   consecutive line of travel of funeral processions upon any street or highway of the metro. If
   the public safety requires, the local law enforcement agency may provide an escort for funeral
   processions, or it may require that the funeral director, mortuary or agency conducting the
   funeral so provide.
B.   Every motorist participating in a funeral procession shall illuminate the headlamps of his
     vehicle or cause appropriate signs to be placed on the same, identifying it as a participating
     vehicle.
11.08.160 - Restrictions upon use of highways.

     The Magna Metro Township Council, upon an engineering inspection and recommendation
from the MSD, may prohibit the operation of all vehicles upon any highway or road of the metro
or impose restrictions as to the weight of vehicles thereon, when the engineering inspection
concludes that a highway or road will otherwise be seriously damaged by climatic conditions. All
such restrictions shall be designated by appropriate signs and markings at each end of that portion
of the highway affected by this chapter and shall not be effective until and unless such signs are
erected and maintained and cite the rule or ordinance enacted by the council.
11.08.190 - A voiding intersections prohibited.

      It is unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle to avoid designated roadways and
intersections by cutting through any service station lot, parking lot, or any other private or public
lot, unless such act is expressly permitted.
11.08.200 - Driving on sidewalks or safety zones prohibited.

     No driver of a vehicle shall drive within any sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary
driveway nor into or upon any portion of a roadway marked as a safety zone.
11.08.210 - Red lights prohibited when.

     It is unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle to drive it upon any public highway in
the metro with any red light visible from directly in front thereof. This section shall not apply to
police, local law enforcement agency, ambulance or fire department vehicles.
11.08.220 - Damaging traffic signs prohibited.

     It is unlawful for any person to drive into, alter, deface, injure, move, knock down, demolish,
remove, or interfere with any traffic sign, standard, post, chain, rope, or other traffic control device
installed for the purpose of directing or regulating traffic in the metro.
I 1.08.230 - Obstruction of view prohibited.



                                                                                                 Page 7
A. It is unlawful for persons owning or occupying property adjacent to any road or highway in
   the metro to permit any tree, plant, shrub, sign, vehicle, fence or other obstacle of any kind
   located on said property to block the view of traffic signs to the vision of oncoming motorists
   or to obscure the vision of oncoming traffic so as to constitute a traffic hazard.
B.   When the county determines upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that a
     traffic hazard exists, it shall notify the owner or occupant and order that the hazard be removed
     within ten days.
C. The failure of the owner or occupant to remove the traffic hazard within ten days is a Class C
   misdemeanor.
11.08.240 - Gravel and foreign matter on highway.

     It shall be unlawful to operate or load, or cause to be operated or loaded, any type of
conveyance upon any public road, highway or thoroughfare in the metro from which sand, gravel,
rocks or other materials fall or are discharged, unless such person immediately stops and removes
all such materials from the road, highway or thoroughfare. It is unlawful to load or carry such
materials so that any of the contact points of the material within the sides of the truck bed are less
than six inches from the top of the truck bed. This section shall not apply to those situations where
such materials are properly discharged or unloaded in connection with construction activities on
the road, highway or thoroughfare by authorized persons.
11.08.250 - Destructive or injurious materials on highway prohibited.

A. It is unlawful for any person to throw, deposit or discard, or to permit to be dropped, deposited
   or discarded upon any public road, highway, park or recreation area, any paper, paper
   container, glass bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans, barbed wire, boards, trash, garbage, or
   any other substance that could injure any person, animal or vehicle, or that could impair the
   scenic aspect of such public road, highway, park or recreation area.
B. Any person who drops, throws, deposits, or discards, or permits to be dropped, thrown,
   deposited or discarded upon any public road, highway, park or recreation area any destructive,
   injurious or unsightly material shall immediately remove the same or cause it to be removed.
C. Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a public road, highway, park or
   recreation area shall remove all glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the road or
   highway or in the park or recreation area from such vehicle.
D. It is unlawful to throw any lighted material from a moving vehicle.
Chapter 11.12 - VEHICLE CONTROL RESTRICTIONS

Sections:



11.12.010 - Interference with control of vehicle prohibited.

    No driver shall engage in any activity that interferes with the safe control and operation of his
vehicle while the same is in motion.



                                                                                               Page 8
11.12.020 - Obstructing load on vehicle prohibited.

A. It is unlawful to drive a vehicle when it is so loaded with people or cargo as to obstruct the
   view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or when the conditions interfere with the
   driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
B. No vehicle passenger shall ride in a position that interferes with the driver's view ahead or to
   the sides, or that interferes with the driver's control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
11.12.030 - Reasonable and proper lookout required.

     It is unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle on the streets of the metro without keeping a
reasonable and proper lookout for other traffic, persons or objects.
11. 12.040 - Passengers on improper portion of vehicle prohibited-Exception.

     No person shall ride, and no person driving a motor vehicle shall knowingly permit any person
to ride upon any portion of a vehicle not designated or intended for the use of passengers. This
provision does not apply to any employee engaged in the necessary discharge of his duty, or to
persons over fourteen years of age riding completely within or upon vehicle bodies in spaces
intended for any load on the vehicle.
11.12.050 - Proper riding of motorcycle-Passengers.

      A person operating a motorcycle or motor-driven cycle shall ride only upon the permanent
and regular seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other person, nor shall any
other person ride on a motorcycle or motor-driven cycle, unless such vehicle is designed to carry
more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride upon the permanent and regular seat,
if designed for two persons, or upon another seat firmly attached to the rear or side of the operator's
seat.
11.12.051 - Low profile motorized vehicles prohibited on public property.

A. For purposes of this section, a low profile motorized vehicle shall mean any motorized vehicle
   that is not regulated by the state or by any other metro ordinance provision, and is not
   otherwise permitted upon metro or public property. This definition includes, but is not limited
   to, pocket bikes, miniature motorcycles, go-carts and any other motor vehicles less than thirty-
   six inches in height when in its normal operating position, notwithstanding any flag, antenna,
   or other attachment or modifications made thereto.
B. It is unlawful for any person to operate a low profile motorized vehicle upon any public
   property within the metro including, but not limited to, sidewalks, parks and parking lots.
C.   It is unlawful for any person to operate a low profile motorized vehicle on the metro roadways
     that is not lawfully registered and insured or otherwise permitted on the roadways by the laws
     of the state of Utah.
D. It is unlawful for an owner to knowingly permit the operation of a low profile motorized
   vehicle in violation of subsections B and C above.
E.   Penalty. A violation of this section is a Class C misdemeanor.



                                                                                                Page 9
11.12.060 - One-arm driving prohibited when.

     It is unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle to have either arm around another person or
for another person to have either arm around the driver while the vehicle is in motion.
11.12.070 - Owner's responsibility for improper use of vehicle.

     No owner or person in control of a vehicle shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be operated
by any person who is physically or mentally disabled to such an extent that such person's judgment
or driving ability is impaired.
11.12.080 - Driving when ill or fatigued.

     No driver shall operate a vehicle while his ability or alertness is so impaired through fatigue,
illness, or any other cause as to make it unsafe for him to drive such vehicle.
11.12.090 - Negligent collision.

    It is unlawful to operate a vehicle with such lack of due care as to cause the same to collide
with any vehicle, person or object.
11.12.100 - Reckless driving prohibited-Penalty.

    Any person who drives any vehicle in wilful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or
property is guilty of reckless driving.
Chapter 11.16 - SPEED LIMITS

Sections:



11.16.010 - Designation by transportation engineer.

A. The Metro Township Council, upon the recommendation of the transportation engineer, may
   alter or change the prima facie speed limits within the metro set by Title 41, Chapter 6a,
   Section 601 of the Utah Code Annotated (1953), as follows:
    1. The prima facie speed therein declared may be found greater than is reasonable or safe
       under the conditions found to exist at any intersection, and upon the erection of
       appropriate signs giving notice thereof, the speed limit may be changed to one deemed
       reasonable and safe.
    2.   Higher speeds than those therein authorized may be substituted upon through highways
         or portions thereof where there are no intersections or between widely spaced
         intersections, provided appropriate signs are erected giving notice of the authorized
         speed ..
    3.   Determine that the prima facie speed permitted upon any highway outside a business or
         residence district is greater than is reasonable or safe under conditions found to exist and
         upon posting of appropriate signs and notices, declare a reasonable and safe limit which



                                                                                             Page 10
         shall, in no event, be less than thirty-five miles per hour. Wherever the drop is ten miles
         per hour, it must be preceded by a sign giving advance notice of such reduction.
B. No changes shall be effective until the transportation engineer has made a full investigation
   of engineering and traffic conditions demanding such change.
11.16.020 - Minimum speed regulations.

     No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or block the normal
and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or
because upon a grade or in compliance with law. The Metro Township Council may determine on
the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation performed by the transportation engineer that
slow speeds on any part of a road or highway of the metro impede the normal and reasonable
movement of traffic and constitute a traffic hazard requiring the declaration of a minimum speed
limit below which no person shall drive except when necessary for safe operation or in compliance
with law. All such minimum speed limits shall be properly posted.
11.16.030 - Speed limits near schools.

     It is unlawful for any person to drive or cause a motor vehicle to be driven past designated
school crossing zones during school hours or while the children are going to or leaving school
during opening or closing hours at a speed in excess of twenty miles per hour.
11.16.040 - Speed limits in public parks.

    The Metro Township Council, upon a recommendation from the transportation engineer, shall
have authority to regulate the speed of vehicles in all public parks in the metro upon posting
appropriate signs and markings.
11.16.050 - Speed contests on highway prohibited.

    It is unlawful for any person to engage in any motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of
speed on a highway, and no person shall aid or abet in any such contest or exhibition on any
highway.
Chapter 11.20 - STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING

Sections:



11.20.010 - Erection of traffic control devices.

    It shall be the duty of the traffic engineer on behalf of the metro to cause traffic signs and
other traffic control devices to be erected and to regulate, warn and guide traffic and parking on
the streets, highways and property of the metro. No traffic control device shall be placed or
maintained upon any highway under the jurisdiction of the Utah Department of Transportation.
11.20.020 - Curb markings.




                                                                                            Page 11
A. The traffic engineer is authorized on behalf of the metro to place and maintain appropriate
   signs or traffic markings to indicate standing or parking regulations, and the traffic markings
   shall designate the zones and shall have the meanings set forth in this chapter:
    1.   "Red" means no stopping, standing or parking at any time.
    2.   "Yellow," with the words "Restricted Zone" stenciled thereon, means no stopping,
         standing or parking except as stated on the signs or markings giving notice thereof, except
         that this provision shall not apply on Sundays and legal holidays.
B. When appropriate signs or traffic curb markings have beert erected or placed according to this
   section, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any zone in violation of the provisions
   of this section.
11.20.030 - Regulation of parking.

A. The traffic engineer may on behalf of the metro place signs on all metro roads and highways
   prohibiting or restricting the parking of vehicles where, in his or her opinion, as evidenced by
   an order entered in his or her records, such parking is dangerous to those using the roads or
   where the parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free movement of traffic
   thereon.
B. The traffic engineer may on behalf of the metro prohibit, restrict or regulate the parking,
   stopping or standing of vehicles on any off-street parking facility or property that the metro
   owns or operates.
C. No such regulations shall apply until signs giving notice thereof have been erected.
D. The provisions of this Chapter 11.20 concerning regulation of parking shall be construed so
   as not to conflict with the provisions of Chapter 11.26. In any situation where the provisions
   of this Chapter 11.20 appear to conflict with the provisions of Chapter 11.26, the provisions
   of Chapter 11.26 shall prevail.
11.20.050 - Parking prohibited in specified areas.

    No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions of a law enforcement officer or traffic
control device, in any one of the following places:
    A. On a sidewalk area;
    B.   In front of or within five feet of a private driveway;
    C. Within an intersection;
    D. Within fifteen feet of a fire hydrant, whether on public or private property or within a fire
       lane as designated and marked in accordance with the provisions of subsection J of
       Section 2.28.030 of this code, whether on public or private property;
    E.   On a crosswalk;
    F.   Within twenty feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
    G. Within thirty feet of any flashing beacon or traffic control device located at the side of a
       roadway;


                                                                                             Page 12
     H. In front of or within twenty feet on either side of the entrance or exit of any theater, fire
        station or place of public assemblage;
     I.   Within fifty feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
     J.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when stopping, standing or
          parking would obstruct or be hazardous to traffic;
     K. Within any alley, except for the necessary and expeditious loading and unloading of
        merchandise; provided, that in no event shall the driveway or entrance to any abutting
        property be blocked or free movement of traffic through the alley be interfered with;
     L.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure on a street or within a street tunnel or
          underpass;
     M. Upon that side of any street contiguous to any school property during school hours;
     N. At any place where official signs or traffic controls placed by the traffic engineer prohibit
        stopping, standing or parking.
11.20.060 - Parking of trucks and commercial vehicles .

A. Definitions. As used in this section:
    "Commercial vehicle" means a vehicle in excess of three-quarter-ton capacity of whatever
make or type designed for or adapted to commercial or agricultural purposes, regardless of the use
to which such vehicle is put at any particular time, provided such vehicle is of a type, kind or
adaptation commonly known as a commercial or agricultural vehicle.
     "Trailer" means any truck trailer or other trailer designed or adapted primarily for the
transportation of property of whatever kind.
     "Truck" means any truck-tractor, panel truck, pickup or other truck in excess ofthree-quarter-
ton capacity.
B.   Restriction. No person shall park any commercial vehicle, agricultural vehicle, occupied or
     empty trailer, truck-tractor or truck on any public street adjacent to a lot or parcel containing
     a residential dwelling(s) or on any public street within a residential subdivision for a period
     of time longer than three consecutive hours.
C. Exception. The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to vehicles being used in the
   servicing of adjacent properties or streets.
11.20.070 - Approach to parking space.

A. Every driver about to enter a parking space being vacated shall stop his vehicle and wait to
   the rear of the vehicle in the actual process of vacating the parking space and having so waited
   shall have prior right to the parking space over all other drivers.
B. No driver shall stop his vehicle ahead of a parking space being vacated and attempt to interfere
   with a driver who has waited properly to the rear of a parking space being vacated.
C. No driver shall stop and wait for a parking space unless the vehicle vacating the space is
   actually in motion.



                                                                                              Page 13
11.20.080 - Vehicle left unattended.

A. It is unlawful for any person having control of a motor vehicle to permit such vehicle to stand
   unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, and removing the key.
B. Neither shall any person allow a vehicle to stand upon any perceptible grade without
   effectively setting the brakes thereon and turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the
   roadway.
11.20.090 - Parallel parking-Required-Exception.

    No person shall stand or park a vehicle on a roadway other than parallel with the edge of the
roadway, headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and with the right hand wheels of the
vehicle within twelve inches of the curb or edge of the roadway, except as otherwise provided.
11.20.100 - Angle parking-Restrictions.

     The traffic engineer may on behalf of the metro, after placement of appropriate signs and
markings, designate certain areas as suitable for angle parking, except that no angle parking shall
be permitted or indicated at any place where passing traffic would thereby be caused or required
to drive upon the left side of the street or where any vehicle would extend from the curb or edge
of the roadway a distance greater than one-third of the width of the roadway.
11.20.110 - Double parking, standing or stopping prohibited-Exception.

     No person shall park, stand or stop a vehicle upon the roadway side of another vehicle that is
parked, standing or stopped, except while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers, or
in compliance with directions of any officer of the local law enforcement agency or traffic control
device , or when necessary to avoid other traffic.
11.20.120 - Obstructing traffic prohibited.

      No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner or under such conditions as
to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic.
11.20.130 - Parking prohibited when.

        When it is snowing or snow is on the street during the months of November, December,
January, February, March and April special parking regulations will apply. On even numbered
days cars shall park on the side of the street corresponding to even numbered addresses and on
odd numbered days cars shall park on the side of the street corresponding to odd numbered
addresses.

11.20.135 - Long-term parking prohibited.

    No person owning, possessing, controlling or having custody of a vehicle shall permit it to
remain standing upon any metro street or alley for a consecutive period of more than twenty-four
hours.



                                                                                           Page 14
11.20.140 - Parking for certain purposes prohibited.

    No person shall park or operate a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purposes of:
    A. Greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an emergency; or
    B.   Selling foodstuffs or other merchandise in any business district.
11.20.150 - Liability.

    The fact than an automobile is iJlegally parked shall be sufficient to constitute a rebuttable
presumption that the registered owner was in control of the automobile at the time it was parked.
11.20.160 - Removal of illegally parked vehicle.

     Whenever any officer of the local law enforcement agency finds a vehicle parked or standing
upon a street in violation of this title, the officer is authorized to move the vehicle or require the
driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move it to a position not in violation of this title.
11.20.170 - Penalty.

    All parking violations on metro streets or highways shall be punishable as an infraction.
Chapter 11.24 - TRAFFIC AND PARKING ON SCHOOL GROUNDS

Sections:



11.24.010 - Rules and regulations adopted.

     Pursuant to the authority granted by Utah Code Section 53A-3-504, after conferring with the
applicable local board of education, the metro enacts and adopts the rules and regulations provided
in this chapter relating to control of traffic and parking on school grounds.
11.24.020 - Applicable regulations enforced.

    The applicable state, county or municipal traffic and parking regulations shall be enforced
upon school and school district property.
11.24.030 - Maximum speed limit.

    Maximum speed on school and district premises is ten miles per hour.
11.24.040 - Limitation of vehicular traffic.

    Vehicular traffic is limited to entering, exiting and parking. No cruising or loitering will be
permitted.
11.24.050 - Vehicles restricted to roadways.

    All vehicles are restricted to designated roadways. Motorized vehicles will not be driven on
lawns, paths or other prohibited areas.



                                                                                                Page 15
11.24.060 - Parking prohibited where.

A. No parking will be allowed in the areas where the curb is painted red, designated "NO
   PARKING," or where such parking would obstruct regular vehicular traffic.
B.   Students, staff and faculty shall not park in areas designated "FOR VISITORS" or
     "RESERVED."
11.24.070 - Regulations applicable to students.

     The following rules and regulations relate to the registration, parking and control of vehicles
by students:
     A. All district traffic and parking regulations and individual school regulations (if any) will
        be distributed to every student and faculty member at or before the beginning of each
        school year.
     B.   Students must register with the school all motor vehicles that will be driven or parked on
          school property. A registration decal must be displayed on the vehicle as follows:
          1.   Cars-left   side of rear window;
          2.   Trucks, rough terrain vehicles (Jeeps, etc.)-lower     right side of front window;
          3.   Motor bikes and cycles-rear    frame or rear fender.
     C. Prior to vehicle registration at the local high school and issuance of the decal, the student
        must possess a valid operator's license issued by this or some other state.
     D. Prior to vehicle registration at the local high school and issuance of the decal, the student
        must provide the following:
          1.   A parent's or guardian's written permission for the student to bring a motor vehicle
               to school;
          2.   A signed statement by the parent and student that they understand that when any car
               is on school property the car may be searched if the school authorities have
               reasonable cause to suspect that materials that are in violation of the state, county,
               municipal or school code are stored therein and they further understand that any
               materials found may be seized and used as evidence in school disciplinary hearings
               and/or legal proceedings.
     E.   Students are to park in the designated student parking areas and within parking spaces as
          directed by painted lines and signs.
     F.   Faculty and staff parking shall be designated, and students are not to park in these areas.
11.24.080 - Signposting.

     All regulatory signs utilized on district or school property shall be placed in conspicuous and
appropriate areas of the grounds. All regulatory signs must be approved by the district prior to
posting.
11.24.090 - Enforcement-Liability.



                                                                                                Page 16
      The rules and regulations provided in this chapter shall be enforced by the appropriate area
law enforcement agencies. Enforcement may include, but shall not be limited to the following:
Citations, towing away at owner's expense, and/or revocation of the privileges to park and drive
on school property. The board of education assumes no responsibility for damage to cars, lost
articles, damage to property, or injury to persons by the automobile or its driver while on school
district property.
Chapter 11.26 - PERMITTED AREAS FOR ON-STREET PARKING

Sections:



11.26.0 IO - Legislative intent.

A. The metro council of the Magna Metro Township has determined that certain residential areas
   in the metro suffer from undue pressures for street parking by persons who do not own
   residences nor live within said areas.
B.   It is the intent of the metro council of the Magna Metro Township to establish designated areas
     within the metro that are set aside as areas wherein on-street parking is permitted only of
     vehicles owned or controlled by residents living within the designated areas.
C. It is further the intent of the metro council that such areas be identified through a petition and
   public hearing process involving the citizens living within the proposed areas, and who own
   real property within said areas.
D. This chapter establishes a process whereby citizens desiring a restricted parking area in their
   neighborhoods may accomplish their goal, provided that all citizens living and owning
   property within the area have an opportunity to express their desires, pro or con, on the matter,
   and the metro council takes legislative action in compliance with the public interest and the
   interests of the local citizens.
E.   By adopting the procedures set forth hereafter, the metro council desires to serve such public
     interests as:
     1.   Increasing access to, and use of, the public streets by abutting tenants, residents and
          property owners.
     2.   Increasing safety by reducing traffic congestion.
     3.   Reducing environmental impacts caused by excessive air and n01se pollution, and
          accumulation of trash and refuse on public streets.
     4.   Encouraging the use of mass transit, carpooling and other modes of transportation which
          reduce the use of automobile traffic that originates from outside the permit area and has
          no bona-fide relation to the tenants, residents, property or business areas within the permit
          area.
     5.   Eliminate hardships caused by parking           congestion    often resulting   in strained
          interpersonal relationships.
11.26.020 - Definitions.


                                                                                               Page 17
    "Address" means the street number and applicable apartment/condominium number for each
dwelling unit, business, or other use as said number is utilized by the owner or tenant for receipt
of mail through the United States Postal Service.
     "Area" refers to the geographical region wherein parking permit privileges are allowed under
the provisions of this chapter.
     "Area resident" means any person who dwells, resides, or conducts business at an address
located within the area where parking permit privileges are allowed under the provisions of this
chapter.
    "On-street parking" means parking on public streets and roads of the metro.
     "Permit" is the decal issued by the MSD which is displayed on a vehicle identified with said
permit, and which will allow the vehicle to be parked within an area wherein parking privileges
are allowed under the provisions of this chapter.
     "Permittee" means a person who is an area resident or who works in the area on a regular,
daily basis.
     "Permit vehicle" refers to any vehicle displaying an area parking permit. Only vehicles
identified in the parking permit may lawfully display the permit.
11.26.030 - Area designation authority.

     The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the MSD on behalf of the metro. The
local law enforcement agency shall enforce the provisions of this chapter. The MSD shall
recommend to the metro council regulations and procedures appropriate for administration of the
program and as needed for the particular portions of the metro that are designated as permitted
parking areas under the provisions of this chapter, and the metro council may enact such
regulations and procedures. No fee shall be effective until authorized by a resolution of the metro
council.
11.26.040 - Area designation procedures.

A. Areas for permitted parking under the procedures established by this chapter shall be
   designated through a petition process.
    1. A petition to designate a permitted parking area for on-street parking must be signed by
       a minimum of fifty-one percent of properties (persons living or doing business at an
       address located within the area sought to be designated). The petition shall include a
       professionally prepared map of the area, prepared by a licensed surveyor, showing a
       clearly delineated boundary line, and a listing of all addresses located within the proposed
       area. The map shall be prepared at the expense of the petitioners.
    2.   Said petition shall be submitted by a person, designated by name, address and telephone
         number in the petition as spokesperson for the petitioners, to the transportation engineer.
    3.   Upon receipt of said petition, the transportation engineer shall make a preliminary study
         of the area sought to be established and make a written report which shall make a
         recommendation as to whether a parking area should be established as requested by the
         petitioners. All information submitted by the petition shall be verified. In making said



                                                                                            Page 18
         recommendation, the transportation engineer may take into consideration the following
         factors:
         a.   The nature and extent of on-street and off-street parking currently existing within the
              proposed area;
         b.   The current use of said parking sites, including times of maximum and minimum
              usage, and whether vehicles utilizing said parking sites are registered to addresses
              within or outside of the proposed parking area;
         c.   Whether cars are parked in the sites long term (continuously for two or more hours),
              or short term (intervals of thirty minutes or less);
         d.   Average length of time a parking site remains open during the following time
              intervals: eight through ten a.m., ten a.m. through twelve p.m., twelve through two
              p.m., two through four p.m., four through six p.m., six p.m. through twelve a.m.,
              twelve through eight a.m.;
         e.   The nature and amount of traffic circulating within the proposed area for the purpose
              of locating parking sites, and the times of greatest and least density of such traffic;
         f.   Anticipated consequences to persons living and working within the proposed area if
              the area is and is not established;
         g.   Anticipated consequences to the general public if the area is established; and
         h.   Personal observation and interviews with relevant residents and motorists.
    4.   The study shall not be limited only to the factors set forth above and the area designation
         authority may include all matters he or she deems relevant
    5.   An application fee of twenty-five dollars will be collected at the time of application.
B. The traffic engineer shall complete said study within 120 days after receipt of the petition;
   duly signed by fifty-one percent of properties as required above, unless requested otherwise
   for specific seasonal considerations.
C. Upon completion of said study and recommendation, the MSD shall forward the same to the
   metro council. Upon receipt thereof, the metro council shall schedule a public hearing to be
   held within thirty days of the metro council's receipt of the study and recommendation. Notice
   of the public hearing shall be given by mailing to each of the addresses submitted by the
   petitioners as well as those in the proposed restricted parking area. Additionally, said notice
   shall also be published in a newspaper of general circulation in Salt Lake County. Notice shall
   include a copy of the petition, a copy of the boundaries of the area sought to be designated, a
   copy of the study made by the county, and the date, time and place of the scheduled public
   hearing. The published notice may be summarized, but shall contain, at a minimum, a
   statement of the request of the petition, a description of the area sought to be designated, a
   statement summarizing the recommendation of the MSD, and the date, time and place of the
   scheduled public hearing. Notice must be published at least four calendar days prior to the
   date of the hearing.
D. At the conclusion of the public hearing, the metro council shall vote as to whether the
   requested parking area for on-street parking shall be designated. If the vote is in the



                                                                                               Page 19
     affirmative, the area shall be immediately established. If the vote is in the negative, no further
     petition for designation of a parking area which contains any of the area included in the
     petition may be submitted until a year has passed from the date of the metro council's vote.
E.   An affirmative vote shall include the particulars of the on-street parking to be allowed in the
     designated area, to include times and days of permitted and prohibited parking.
11.26.050 - Signs to be placed in designated area.

     Upon the designation of the area, the MSD shall on behalf of the metro cause appropriate
signs to be made which shall be erected in the designated area. Said signs shall indicate the areas
where parking is restricted, the parking regulations which are to be followed, and the place where
permits for parking may be obtained by authorized permittees.
11.26.060 - Parking permit coordinator.

     The transportation engineer shall establish a parking permit coordinator to issue permits on
behalf of the metro pursuant to this chapter. It shall be the duty of the parking permit coordinator
to review applications for permits to park within the designated area(s) and to verify that applicants
actually live, work or own property within said area(s). The coordinator may require such evidence
as he or she deems sufficient to establish such facts.
11.26.070 - Issuance of permits.

     When an applicant has satisfactorily established to the parking permits coordinator that he or
she lives, works or owns property within the designated area, said applicant may receive a permit
to park within the designated area in accordance with the regulations set for each area by the metro
council. Said permits shall be encased in plastic with a lanyard attached which is of sufficient
length to enable the permit holder to display the permit by hanging the same over the rear view
mirror of the vehicle being utilized by the permit holder. The permit shall be of sufficient size and
clarity as to be observable through the vehicle's windshield for the purpose of facilitating an
enforcer's observation of the permit.
11.26.080 - Display of permits.

      Whenever a permit holder parks within the designated area appropriate to the permit,
permittee shall display the permit by hanging it over the rear view mirror inside the vehicle being
utilized by permittee. The permit holder shall ensure that nothing obscures the permit from the
view of an enforcer.
11.26.090 - Control of permits.

A. Each adult person living, working or owning property within the designated area(s) may
   receive up to two permits to park within the designated area(s) in accordance with the
   regulations established for the area by the metro council. Each permit shall be numbered and
   registered to the permittee and the address within the area applicable to the permittee.
   Permittees shall be responsible for each permit received. No, more than two permits will be
   issued to each permittee, and permittees may use any of the two permits to park his or her
   vehicles, or vehicles being parked in the designated area by his or her guests. No replacements
   shall be issued to any permittee unless the permittee first presents, as a condition to receiving


                                                                                               Page 20
    a new permit, an old permit or its remains, which must be identifiable as a permit previously
    issued to the permittee, to the parking permits coordinator. If the old permit is unavailable, a
    signed affidavit setting forth the circumstances of loss may be used to obtain a replacement
    permit.
B. If an applicant submits an application in reliance upon an address to which the permits
   coordinator has previously issued a permit, and there is no evidence that the permittee who
   previously received a permit related to that address has destroyed all permits received for that
   address, no additional permits shall be issued pertaining to that address until the applicant
   therefore has submitted relevant evidence to establish that the prior permits have been lost,
   destroyed, or will not be available for use by anyone not connected to the address. An affidavit
   shall be utilized for this purpose.
C. Without proper justification an applicant will not be issued more than two permits. If a
   singular event, such as a wedding reception, party, or the like should cause a person residing
   within the designated area to need more on-street parking than would be available through use
   of his or her two permits, he or she may apply for up to twenty additional permits which are
   valid only for the day established by the applicant as the day of the singular event. Said
   additional permits shall be of a different color than regular permits so as to clearly indicate to
   enforcers of this chapter that they are one-day permits.
11.26.100 - Term of permit.

    Each permit issued by the parking permits coordinator shall be valid for the period of
ownership of the property. Upon transfer of property, the permits will be transferred to the new
owner. If the permits are not transferred with the property, a signed affidavit may be used for
reapplication. Other permits, e.g., those given to renters or persons working in the area, will expire
on December 31st of the year they are issued and must be replaced by January 1st of each
successive year.
11.26.110 - Parking permit fees.

     To assist in funding the costs of administering the program established by this chapter, each
applicant for a parking permit shall pay a fee according to the following schedule:
    A. Area regular permit, for application fee: ten dollars.
    B. Area regular permit for a term of less than one week: two dollars and fifty cents.
    C. Replacement permits: twenty dollars administrative fee. No refund shall be given for an
       unexpired permit when an application for a replacement permit is made.
11.26.120 - Issuance of permit no guarantee of parking space.

A. Parking permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be applicable to any certain parking
   space or parking area within the designated area.
B. Magna Metro Township does not guarantee to any permit holder that parking space will be
   available to them at any particular time during the portion of the day or week in which the
   parking regulations established by the metro council are in effect. Neither does Magna Metro
   Township guarantee to any permit holder that parking space will be available to them during
   the times in which the parking regulations established by the metro council are not in effect.


                                                                                              Page 21
11.26.130 - Rights of permit holders.

     Permit holders may use any one or all of the up to two parking permits issued to them at all
times parking has been restricted under the regulations applicable to the designated area. The
permits may be used singly, or all at the same time; thus permit holders may park up to two vehicles
during the regulated time periods by utilizing the permits issued to them. A permit does not entitle
permittees to violate any general parking or driving ordinances made applicable to all persons by
other provisions of the Utah traffic code, or ordinances of the Magna Metro Township, and shall
operate only to allow parking within the designated area at all times and in accordance with any
regulations established for the designated area by the metro council.
11.26.140 - Display of permit required.

     Permit holders must display permits by complying with Section 11.26.080, above. Vehicles
which do not have permits displayed as required by said section shall be cited for violation of the
regulations established by the metro council. If a person receiving a citation for violation of said
regulations can produce a valid permit at the time of a hearing before a court or other venue
established to collect fines for violation of this chapter, and said permit would, if it had been
properly displayed, exempt the permittee and the vehicle involved from the citation, production of
said permit shall provide a defense to the fine normally imposed for violation of this chapter;
provided, however, that the permittee shall pay an administrative fee of twenty five dollars to
defray the costs to the county of issuing and processing the citation.
11.26.150 - Conditions of holding permit-Revocation      of permit.

     Each person receiving a parking permit under this chapter shall, as a condition of receiving
and utilizing the same, agree to comply with the regulations established for the designated area by
the metro council. Any violation of said regulations by a permit holder shall subject said holder to
a forfeiture of the permit on the following basis: one violation shall result in a suspension of the
permit for a period of one month, two violations shall result in a suspension of the permit for a
period of six months; a third violation shall result in permanent disqualification of the permit
holder from receiving any further parking permit for the designated area.
11.26.160 - Change of boundary of designated area(s).

     The boundary of any designated area may be changed by use of the same procedure heretofore
set for the establishment of the designated area. The only difference shall be that the petition used
to initiate a change in the boundary must be signed by fifty-one percent of petitioners whose
addresses lie within the area sought to be removed from the previously established boundary,
and/or by fifty-one percent of petitioners whose addresses lie within the area sought to be added
to the previously established boundary. All other provisions pertaining to establishment of
designated parking areas shall apply to the petitions for removals from, and additions to, the
designated area.
11.26.170 - Amendments to regulations pertaining to designated area(s).

     The metro council may, at any time, and for any reason, consider changes in the regulations
it previously established for designated area(s), and enact such changes as the council deems, in
the exercise of it lawful authority, to be proper.


                                                                                             Page 22
11.26.180 - Discontinuance of designated area(s).

     The metro council may, at any time, and for any reason, and in the exercise of its lawful
authority, discontinue the operation of this chapter in designated area(s). At the time of
discontinuance, all permits for the area shall be void.
11.26.190 - Unlawful activities-Penalties.

A.   It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter, unless expressly provided to the contrary herein,
     for any person to stand or park a motor vehicle, or to cause the same, contrary to the
     regulations established pursuant to this chapter. Each such violation shall be an infraction and
     shall be punished as described in Utah Code§§ 76-3-1 05, 76-3-205, 76-3-301 and 76-3-302,
     1953 as amended.
B.   It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter for a person to falsely represent himself or herself
     as eligible for a parking permit, or to furnish false information in an application therefore to
     the parking permit coordinator. Each such violation shall constitute a Class B misdemeanor,
     and shall be punished as described in Utah Code§§ 76-3-104, 76-3-204, 76-3-301 and 76-3-
     302, 1953 as amended.
C.   It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter for a person to copy, produce or otherwise bring
     into existence a facsimile or counterfeit parking permit in order to evade parking regulations
     applicable in a designated area. Each such violation shall constitute a Class B misdemeanor,
     and shall be punished as described in Utah Code§§ 76-3-104, 76-3-204, 76-3-301 and 76-3-
     302, 1953 as amended.
D. It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter for a person to alter, in any way, a permit issued
   by the parking permit coordinator in such a manner as to extend the term thereof, apply to a
   person different than that to whom the permit was issued, or to apply to an address different
   than that to which the permit was issued. Each such violation shall constitute a Class B
   misdemeanor, and shall be punished as described in Utah Code§§ 76-3-104, 76-3-204, 76-3-
   301 and 76-3-302, 1953 as amended.
Chapter 11.32 - BICYCLES

Sections:



11.32.080 - Bicycle rider subject to traffic regulations.

     Every person riding a bicycle upon the streets, alleys, sidewalks or public ways of the metro
shall be subject to the provisions of this title applicable to the driver of a motor vehicle, except
those provisions that by their nature can have no application.

(Prior code § 21-8-9)

11.32.090 - Equipment.




                                                                                                Page 23
A. No bicycle shall be equipped with and no person shall use a siren or whistle as a warning
   device. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake that will enable the operator to control
   the movement of and to stop and hold such bicycle.
B. Any bicycle operated during the period of one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before
   sunrise, shall also be equipped with a lighted lamp, visible under normal atmospheric
   conditions for at least five hundred feet to the front and a reflector or a lighted lamp attached
   to the rear of the bicycle, visible under like conditions for at least five hundred feet.
11.32.100 - Prohibited acts.

    It is unlawful for operators of bicycles to do the following:
    A. To fail to yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and to sound a warning device before
       overtaking or passing any pedestrian when riding upon a sidewalk;
    B. To ride more than two abreast upon any street;
    C. To proceed other than single file upon any sidewalk;
    D. To carry extra passengers or carry any packages, bundles or articles that would require
       the removal of the hand or hands from the handlebars of the bicycle;
    E.   To permit the bicycle to be towed by another vehicle or bicycle;
    F.   To carry more persons at one time than the number that the bicycle is designed to carry
         on seats firmly attached thereto.
 11.32.130 - Parental responsibility for violation by minor.

    It is unlawful for a parent or custodian of any child and the guardian of any ward to knowingly
permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this chapter.
Chapter 11.36 - PEDESTRIANS

Sections:



11.36.0 IO - Responsibility of driver to exercise caution.

     Notwithstanding the provisions of this title, every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care
to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway and shall give warning by sounding the
horn when necessary and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
11.36.020 - Pedestrian with white cane.

     A person wholly or partially blind, and no other person, may carry a cane or walking stick,
white, or painted white in color, and seven-eighths of an inch or more in diameter, as a means of
protection and identification and as an indication to all traffic to exercise extraordinary care to
avoid accidents.
11.36.030 - Pedestrian right-of-way at crosswalk.


                                                                                            Page 24
A. When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the driver of a vehicle shall
   yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if necessary, to a pedestrian crossing the
   roadway within the crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which
   the vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
   half of the roadway as to be in danger. Pedestrians shall not suddenly leave a curb or other
   place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle that is so close that is impossible for
   the driver to yield. This provision shall not apply where the pedestrian is crossing at a place
   other than a crosswalk.
B. Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked crosswalk at an
   intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the driver of any other vehicle
   approaching from the rear shall not overtake and pass the stopped vehicle on either side.
11.36.040 - Use ofright-hand side of crosswalks and sidewalks required.

    Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of crosswalks and
sidewalks.
11.36.050 - Yield of right-of-way when.

A. Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked crosswalk or
   within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall do so only if no crosswalk exists within
   three hundred fifty feet of the desired point of crossing.
B. When so crossing, the pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
C. Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel or overhead pedestrian
   crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
D. Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in operation, pedestrians
   shall not cross at any place except in a marked crosswalk.
11.36.060 - Walking on or along roadways.

A. Where sidewalks, walkways or paths are provided, it is unlawful for any pedestrian to walk
   along and upon any adjacent roadway.
B. Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall,
   when practicable, walk only on the left side of the roadway or its shoulder facing traffic that
   may approach from the opposite direction. In no event shall more than two persons walk
   abreast alongside any metro roadway.
11.36.070 - Standing in roadway prohibited when.

    No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride, employment, the
parking, watching or guarding of a vehicle, or other business from the occupant of any vehicle.
Chapter 11.40 - ABANDONED AND IMPOUNDED VEHICLES

Sections:




                                                                                             Page 25
11.40.020 - Vehicles deemed nuisance .

A. In addition to vehicles parked in violation of any ordinance of the metro or the laws of the
   state, the following are declared to be nuisances:
     1.   Any unattended vehicle stopped, standing or parked in violation of any of the provisions
          of this title;
     2.   Any vehicle found upon the streets or alleys of this metro with faulty or defective
          equipment;
     3.   Any vehicle left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct, or at any subway where such
          vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic;
     4.   Any vehicle upon a street so disabled as to constitute an obstruction to traffic, when the
          persons in charge of the vehicle are, by reason of physical injury, incapacitated to such
          an extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal;
     5.   Any vehicle left unattended upon a street or alley and parked illegally so as to constitute
          a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal movement of traffic;
     6.   Any vehicle left parked in the same place on any street or alley continuously for twenty-
          four hours;
     7.   Any vehicle wherein the driver has been taken into custody by the local law enforcement
          agency under circumstances so as to leave such vehicle unattended in a street, alley or
          restricted parking area;
     8.   Any vehicle being driven on the streets which is not in a proper condition to be driven;
          or
     9.   Any vehicle found so parked as to constitute a fire hazard or an obstruction to fire-fighting
          apparatus.
B.   Such nuisances may be summarily abated by removal by, under the direction of, or at the
     request of an officer of the local law enforcement agency, to a place of storage within the
     county, by means of towing or otherwise. State law will govern the handling of the impounded
     vehicle.
Chapter 11.44 - PENALTIES, PARTIES AND PROCEDURE ON ARREST

Sections:



11.44.010 - Violation deemed misdemeanor-Penalty.

     It is a misdemeanor for a person to violate any of the provisions of this title. Any person
violating a provision shall, except where another penalty is provided, be punished as set out in
Section 1.12.010 of this code.
11.44.020 - Parties guilty of criminal offense.




                                                                                                Page 26
     Every person who commits, attempts to commit, conspires to commit, or aids or abets in the
commission of any act declared in this chapter to be unlawful, whether individually or in
connection with one or more other persons or as a principal, agent or accessory, shall be guilty of
the offense; and every person who falsely, fraudulently, forcibly or willfully induces, causes,
coerces, requires, permits or directs another to violate any provision of this title is likewise guilty
of such offense. Every person who knowingly and willfully gives false information concerning the
identity of anyone who has committed any act to an officer of the local law enforcement agency
investigating such act, known by the officer to have been committed and believed by the officer to
have been unlawful shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
11.44.030 - Appearance before magistrate.

    Whenever any person is arrested for any violation of this title, the arrested person, for the
purpose of setting bond, shall in the following cases, be taken without unnecessary delay before a
magistrate within the county who has jurisdiction over the offense and who is nearest or most
accessible with reference to the place where the arrest was made in any of the following cases:
    A. When a person arrested demands an immediate appearance before a magistrate; or
    C. When a person is arrested on the charge of failure to stop in the event of an accident
       causing death, personal injuries, or damage to property.
11.44.040 - Notice to appear.

    Upon any violation of this title, whenever a person is not immediately taken before a
magistrate as provided in Section 11.44.030, the officer shall prepare a written notice to appear in
court which shall be prepared and delivered in accordance with the provisions of Utah Code
Annotated (1953), as amended, Sections 77-7-18, 77-7-20 and 77-7-21.
11.44.050 - Failure to appear deemed misdemeanor.

    Any person who willfully fails to appear before a court pursuant to a citation issued under the
provisions of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor regardless of the disposition of the charge
upon which he was originally cited.




                                                                                               Page 27
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Magna, Salt Lake County, Utah this \   t\- day of
N ~ ·w . 1£>\
           1




ATTEST




~~~
                                                 Approved as to Form:

SHERRIE SWENSEN
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
                                                      ~~
                                                     ROTC} SHIP ATTORNEY
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER



VOTING

COUNCILMEMBER FERGUSON ---

COUNCILMEMBER HULL
                                ~,11
                                k'k/ -

COUNCILMEMBER PEAY                               (Complete as Applicable)

COUNCILMEMBER PEEL
                                                 Ordinance published in newspaper:
COUNCILMEMBER PROKOPIS
                                                 Date: --      --   --      -   -   -

                                                 Effective date of ordinance:

APPROVED AS TO FORM:



METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY




                                                                                Page 28
                                               SUMMARY OF

                MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO.                    l1- \I- D\
           On the-   ~_   day of                    P
                                      C .(:,Vy\ e.( 2017 the M agna Me tro Townsh..ipCounc il
 adopted Ordinance No. l 1-\\- ()\ , an ordinance establishing creating TITLE 11 - VEHICLES
 AND TRAFFIC of the Magna Metro Township Code of Ordinances to regulate Winter On-Street
 parking, and to modify language to better conform to the needs of the Metro TownshipMAGNA
 METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL:




 ATTESTED:


        ,~ ..5?
 j l.u.,,,
____          ..,
 Sherrie Swensen, County Clerk
                                J---,,.,__;o..r ·            Approved as to Form:



 METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER                               M
                                                             dt(li~                         EY
 Voting:
 Councilmember Ferguson voting             Hi/
 Councilmember Hull voting                  /\--\-ti
 Councilmember Peay voting                  Aw
 Councilmember Peel voting                  t>,.j-v
 Councilmember Prokopis voting              ~I


 A complete copy of Ordinance No. \1-\\-DJ     is available in the office of the Salt Lake County
 Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2- 700, Salt Lake City, Utah.




                                                                                             Page 29
