                           MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP                ORDINANCE


ORDINANCE NO. __              •._._0
                         \·_·,_    __   _                                                             , 2017


 AMENDMENTS TO BUSINESS LICENSE ORDINANCES FOR CONSISTENCY WITH PRIOR
                              PRACTICES

               AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 5.02.140 AND 5.20.120 OF
               THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP CODE OF ORDINANCES 2017,
               RELATED    TO   BUSINESS   LICENSING     APPLICATION
               REQUIREMENTS AND GROUNDS FOR DENIAL, IN ORDER TO BE
               CONSISTENT   WITH   PRIOR PRACTICES      AND    OTHER
               ORDINANCES, AND MAKING OTHER RELATED CHANGES.

       The Magna Metro Township Council, of Salt Lake County, State of Utah, ordains as follows:

       SECTION I. The amendments made herein arc designated by underlining the new substituted

words. Words being deleted are designated by brackets and interlineations.

       SECTION II. Section, 5.02.140 of the Magna Metro Township Code of Ordinances, 2017, is

hereby amended, as follows:

5.02.140 - License-Application-Denial       conditions-Appeals.

A. After receiving a recommendation from the license official, the mayor may deny a license or a license

   renewal if the applicant has within five years immediately preceding the date of application:

       I. Been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude;

       2. Obtained a license by fraud or deceit;

       3. Failed to pay personal property taxes, Utah state sales taxes, or other required fees; or

       4. Violated the laws of the state, the United States Government, the ordinances of the

           eouAt)metro township. or the rules and regulations of any Salt Lake County or Utah state

           agency governing operation of the business holding the license or permit; or

       5. An outstanding warrant for his or her arrest.

   B. The reason for denial shall be endorsed on the license or renewal application and the €ffilfl{y
       metro township or designated agent shall return lo the applicant, via certified mail, any excess

       fees deposited with the application.

   C. Notice shall be given that the applicant may appeal a denial within [.fetH4eeaj fifteen calendar

       days and appear before the council or a licensed hearing examiner in accordance with Section

       5.02.140 through 5.02.180, below, to present reasons for setting aside denial of a license or

       renewal.

   D. If the applicant presents adequate justification, the council may, in its discretion, set aside the

       denial and approve the application.

       I. Examples of "adequate justification" include bu! are not limited to:

          a. The passage ofa long period of time since the inappropriate or illegal act was committed;

           b. Youth or immaturity of the applicant when the inappropriate or illegal act was committed;

          c. Acts committed by others over whom the applicant lacked control.

          d. Any error by the eet1t1{:y-metrolownsh ip or designated agent relating to taxes or other

              required fees or in determining that any law or ordinance has been violated;

          e. A disaster or Act of God precluding timely payment of taxes or other required fees, or

              making compliance with any law or ordinance impossible; or

          f. A good faith and reasonable dispute, not yet resolved, between the licensee and the OOtlf!-!y

              metro township or designated agent regarding the imposition or amount of taxes or other

              required fees, or of the application ofa particular law or ordinance.

       SECTION III: Section, 5. I 0.080 of the Magna Metro Township Code of Ordinances, 2017, is

hereby amended, as follows:

5.10.080 - Denial conditions-Appeals.

   A. The local law enforcement agency may deny, on behalf of Magna Metro Township, a registration

       card if the applicant within five years immediately preceding the date of application:
       I. Has been convicted of a felony, or any crime involving moral turpitude as defined by Utah

            Administrative Ruic R708-2-3;

       2. Has obtained a registration card by fraud or deceit;

       [3. Has Jailed to pay required Jcestl

       .:l_f4}. Has violated the laws of the state or the ordinances of the OOH1rty-metrotownship

           regulating the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages, or a controlled substance as

           defined in Section 58-37-1, et seq., Utah Code Annotated (1953), as amended.

       :!fB. Has an outstanding warrant for his or her arrest.

   B. Any appeal of the denial of a registration card subject to the provisions of this chapter shall be

       heard and decided in accordance with the provisions of Sections 5.02.140 through 5.02. I 80 of

       this title.

       SECTION IV: Section, 5.20.120 of the Magna Metro Township Code of Ordinances, 2017, is

hereby amended, as follows:

5.20.120 - Employee license-Application-Disclosures         required.

Before any applicant may be licensed as a sexually oriented business employee pursuant to this chapter,

the applicant shall submit in writing, on a form to be supplied by the local law enforcement agency, on

behalf of the OOH!ttymetrotownship, the following:

   A. Basic Information.

       I. The correct legal name of each applicant, including any other names, stage names or aliases

           used by the individual,

       2. The age, date and place of birth,

       3. Height,

       4. Weight,

       5. Color of hair,
    6. Color of eyes,

    7. Present business address and telephone number,

    8. Present residence and telephone number,

    9. Utah driver's license or identification number (together with production of the license or

        identification), and

    I 0. Social security number.

B. Attached to the form as provided above, a color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the

    individual's face, and the individual's fingerprints on a form provided by the local law

    enforcement agency;

C. A statement of the business, occupation or employment history of the applicant for three years

    immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application;

D. A statement as to whether or not the applicant or individual has ever had any professional or

   vocational license or permit denied, revoked or suspended. In the event of any such denial,

   revocation or suspension, slate the dale, the name of the acting jurisdiction, and state in full the

   reasons for the denial, revocation or suspension. A copy of any order of denial, revocation or

   suspension shall be attached to the application;

E. A current copy of a criminal background check of the applicant performed by BC!.

F. For any individual applicant required to obtain a sexually oriented business employee license for

   outcall services as a model, dancer or other similar employee or escort, [--fl-\ffie-0l'-Set1111IBOO

   ~ by ai,y other seimally oriented busiriess,] a certificate from the Salt Lake

   County Health Department, stating that the individual has, within thirty days immediately

   preceding the date of the application, been examined and found lo be free of the following

   contagious diseases: gonorrhea, syphilis, and chlamydia, and is negative for the AIDS antibody.

   Said certificate shall be updated quarterly during the license term by the applicant and submitted
       to the county license manager.          Said certificate shall also be required for the renewal of such

       license.

       SECTION V: Section, 5.20.150 of the Magna Metro Township Code of Ordinances, 2017, is

hereby amended, as follows:

5.20.150 - Employee Iiccnsc--Denial conditions-Appeals.

   A. The local law enforcement agency may deny, on the Magna Metro Township's                     behalf, an

       employee license for one or more of the following:

       I. The applicant is under eighteen years of age or any higher age if the license sought requires

          a higher age;

       2. The applicant has provided materially false information in the application;

       3. The applicant has been convicted ofa violation ofa provision of this chapter within two years

           immediately preceding the date the application is submitted to the local law enforcement

          agency (the fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the disqualification

          pursuant to this section);

       4. An applicant is in violation of aey--prev-isien-o-f~Wj3teP,

      5. Within five years immediately preceding the date of application, [A:f.s111
                                                                                 applicant has been

          convicted of or pied nolo contendere or no contest to:

          a. A felony under the laws of the state of Utah;

          b. Any crime involving moral turpitude, as defined by Utah Administrative Rule R.708-2-3;

          c. Any of the following listed crimes, whether or not constituting a felony or a crime of

                  moral turpitude:

                  1.    Prostitution;

                  11.   Exploitation of prostitution;

                  iii. Aggravated promotion of prostitution;
iv. Aggravated exploitation of prostitution;

v. Solicitation of sex acts;

vi. Sex acts for hire;

vii. Compelling prostitution;

viii. Aiding prostitution;

1x. Sale, distribution or display of material harmful to minors;

x. Sexual performance by minors;

xi. Possession of child pornography;

xii. Public lewdness;

xiii. Indecent exposure;

xiv. Any crime involving sexual abuse or exploitation ofa child;

xv. Sexual assault or aggravated sexual assault;

xvi. Rape;

xvii. Forcible sodomy;

xviii. Forcible sexual abuse;

xix. Incest;

xx. Harboring a runaway child;

xxi. Criminal attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit and of the foregoing offenses

   or

xxii. Offenses involving similar elements from any jurisdiction regardless of the exact

   title of the offonse [~

   fB-Less than two )Cars have elapsed from the date ofconviotion if the conviction is

        ofa misdemeanor offense or less than five years if the eonviotions are of two or

        more misdemeanors wH+Htl--the
                                   five years,&
           d. Appeal ofa conviction shall have no effect on the disqualification pursuant to this section.

        6. An applicant has an outstanding warrant for his or her arrest.

    B. Any person who is denied an employee license may appeal within fifteen days from the date of

       denial to the GBtHtly-c-Blffl{,-'-ttmetro
                                             township council for a hearing regarding issuance of the

       employee license. The council shall then schedule a hearing in conformance with general

       business license denial proceedings, as set forth in this title, as amended.

       SECTION VI: This ordinance shall take effect fifteen (I 5) days after its passage a+ltl-QLuponat

least one publication of the ordinance or a summary thereof in a newspaper published and having general

circulation in Salt Lake County.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Magna Metro Township Council has approved, passed and

adopted this ordinance this ____   day of _________             ~ 20 I 6.




                                                 MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                                 Dan W. Peay, Chair


ATTESTED:



Sherrie Swensen, County Clerk



APPROVED AS TO FORM

Hy ____           _
    Attorney

Date :.________         _

Voting:

CouncilmemberFergusonvoting
Councilmernber Hull voting
CouncilmcrnbcrPeay voting,
CouncilmernberPeel voting
CouncilmcmbcrProkopisvoting




                                                  (Complete as Applicable)
                                   Ordinance published in newspaper: Date: ___   _
                                   Effective date of ordinance:---======
