MAGNA
ORDINANCE 19-06-01
CODE ENFORCEMENT AND COMMUNITY PRESERVATION
AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL CREATING TITLE
12: “CODE ENFORCEMENT AND COMMUNITY PRESERVATION” AND SUBSEQUENT
CHAPTERS OF THE MAGNA CODE OF ORDINANCES TO ESTABLISH AND REGULATE
THE ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCESS
WHEREAS, the current remedies available for ordinance enforcement rely heavily on
fines and court action to resolve violations of Magna's Municipal Code; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §10-2a-414(3), Magna's code enforcement
provisions are based on Salt Lake County's ordinances and were enacted pursuant to Title 17,
which pertains to counties, as opposed to Title 10, which governs municipalities; and
WHEREAS, resolving code enforcement actions through the current enforcement
process is often costly, can take years to resolve, and can allow violations to exist unabated for
significant periods to time, forcing citizens to endure an unsightly and unhealthy living
environment; and
WHEREAS, fines and penalties can accrue on a daily basis while violations of the
Municipal Code await resolution in court, and can result in substantial, cumulative fines for
relatively minor violations; and
WHEREAS, other municipalities in Utah utilize a combination of administrative, civil,
and criminal remedies to bring about compliance with municipal ordinances, and such an
approach can bring about compliance in a reasonable amount of time and in a more cost-effective
manner; and
WHEREAS, the Council desires to enact a more comprehensive code enforcement
program that is based on Title 10 of the Utah Code and includes various procedures to facilitate
the enforcement of ordinance violations that incentivize compliance and, if a property owner is
unwilling or unable to remedy a violation, authorize the use of administrative mechanisms to
facilitate the abatement of the violation in an easier, more timely, and less costly manner; and
WHEREAS, on June 20, 2019, the Magna Planning Commission reviewed and
recommended the adoption the code enforcement program (the “Program”) contained in this
ordinance, which the staff and attorney have reviewed; and
WHEREAS, the Council is authorized to enact the Program pursuant to Utah Code Ann.
§§ 10-3-702 - 703.7, 10-3-716, 10-8-60, and 10-11-1, et seq., among other applicable laws and
authorities; and
Page: 1

WHEREAS, the Council does hereby determine that it is in the best interests of the
health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Magna to adopt a more comprehensive and flexible
code enforcement program to facilitate compliance with municipal ordinances and to improve
the appearance of the community.

NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Council of Magna, in the State of Utah, as
follows:

SECTION 1: ADOPTION “Chapter 12.1 GENERAL” of the Magna Municipal
Code is hereby added as follows:

ADOPTION
Chapter 12.01 General(Added)

SECTION 2: ADOPTION “Chapter 2 ADMINISTRATIVE CODE

ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES’ of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
Chapter 12.02 Administrative Code Enforcement Procedures(Added)

SECTION 3: ADOPTION “Chapter 12.3 ADMINISTRATIVE AND JUDICIAL

REMEDIES” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
Chapter 12.03 Administrative And Judicial Remedies( Added)

SECTION 4: ADOPTION “Chapter 12.4 RECOVERY OF CODE
ENFORCEMENT PENALTIES AND COSTS” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as
follows:

ADOPTION
Page: 2

Chapter 12.04 Recovery Of Code Enforcement Penalties And Costs(Added)
SECTION 5: ADOPTION “12.1.010 SHORT TITLE’ of the Magna Municipal
Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.01.010 Short Title(Added)
This Title shall be known as the “Code Enforcement and Community Preservation Program.”
This Chapter shall also be known as Chapter 12.1, of the Magna Municipal Code. It may be
cited and pleaded under either designation.
SECTION 6: ADOPTION “12.01.020 AUTHORITY” of the Magna Municipal
Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.01.020 AUTHORITY(Added)
The Municipality promulgates this Ordinance pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-3-702—
703.7; 10-3-716; 10-8-60;-11-1, et seq.; 76-10-801, et seq.; and any other applicable law or
successor statute(s).
SECTION 7: ADOPTION “12.01.030 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE’ of the
Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.01.030 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE(Added)
Page: 3

Magna finds that the enforcement of its Municipal Code and applicable state codes throughout
the municipality is an important public service. Code enforcement and abatement are vital to
the protection of the public's health, safety, and quality of life. The Council recognizes that
enforcement starts with the drafting of precise regulations that can be effectively applied in
administrative code enforcement hearings and judicial proceedings. The Council further finds
that a comprehensive code enforcement system that uses a combination of judicial and
| administrative remedies is critical to gain compliance with these regulations in a manner that
is fair and equitable to the Municipality and its citizens. Failure to comply with an
administrative code enforcement action may require the Attorney to file a judicial action to
gain compliance.
|
SECTION 8: ADOPTION “12.01.040 SCOPE” of the Magna Municipal Code is
hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.01.040 SCOPE(Added)
The provisions of this Title may be applied to all violations of the Magna Municipal Code. It
has been designed as an additional remedy for the Municipality to use in achieving compliance
of its ordinances.
SECTION 9: ADOPTION “12.01.050 EXISTING ORDINANCES AND LAWS’
of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.01.050 EXISTING ORDINANCES AND LAWS(Added)
The provisions of this Title do not invalidate any other title or ordinance but shall be read in
conjunction with those titles and ordinances as an additional remedy available for the
enforcement of those ordinances together with any and all other applicable laws. If there is a
conflict between this Title and another provision of the Municipal Code, this Title shall
control.
SECTION 10: ADOPTION “12.01.060 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION RIGHT?’ of
the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
Page: 4

ADOPTION
12.01.060 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION RIGHT(Added)
The Municipality has sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or criminal case for the
| violation of any of its ordinances. The Municipality may choose to file both, or one, or the
other. The enactment of the administrative remedies set forth in this Title shall in no way
interfere with the Municipality’s right to prosecute ordinance violations as criminal offenses in
a court of law. The Municipality may use any of the remedies available under the law in both
civil and criminal prosecution. If the Municipality chooses to file both civil and criminal
charges for the same day of violation, no civil penalties may be assessed, but all other
remedies will be available.
SECTION 11: ADOPTION “EFFECT OF HEADINGS’ of the Magna Municipal
Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.01.070 Effect Of Headings( Added)
Title, chapter, part and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to govern, limit,
modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or intent of the provisions of any title,
chapter, part, or section hereof.
SECTION 12: ADOPTION “12.01.080 VALIDITY OF TITLE - SEVERABILITY”
of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.01.080 VALIDITY OF TITLE - SEVERABILITY(Added)
If any chapter, part, section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision of this
Title is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of
this Title. The Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this Title and chapter, part,
section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision thereof, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, clauses, phrases, portions, or provisions be
declared invalid or unconstitutional. This Section shall apply to all amendments heretofore or
hereafter made to this Title.
Page: 5

SECTION 13: ADOPTION “12.01.090 NO MANDATORY DUTY - CIVIL

LIABILITY” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:

ADOPTION
12.01.090 NO MANDATORY DUTY - CIVIL LIABILITY(Added)
It is the intent of the Council that in establishing performance standards or establishing an
obligation to act by a Magna Municipal officer, employee, or designee, these standards shall not
be construed as creating a mandatory duty for purposes of tort liability if the officer, employee, or
designee fails to perform his or her directed duty or duties.

SECTION 14: ADOPTION “12.01.100 GENERAL RULES OF
INTERPRETATION OF ORDINANCES?’ of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as
follows:

ADOPTION
12.01.100 GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION OF ORDINANCES(Added)
For purposes of this Title:
(1) Any gender includes the other gender.
(2) “Shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissive.
(3) The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
(4) Words used in the present tense include the past and future tense, and vice versa.
(5) Words and phrases used in this Title and not specifically defined shall be construed according
to the context and approved usage of the language.

SECTION 15: ADOPTION “12.01.110 DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO TITLE

GENERALLY” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
Page: 6

ADOPTION
12.01.110 DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO TITLE GENERALLY(Added)
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Title, shall be constructed as defined in
this section, unless a different meaning is specifically defined elsewhere in this Title and
specifically stated to apply:
| (1) “Abate” or “Abatement” means any action the Municipality may take on public or private
property and any adjacent property as may be necessary to remove or alleviate a violation,
including, but not limited to, demolition, removal, repair, boarding, and securing or replacement
of property.
(2) “Administrative Code Enforcement Order” means an order issued by an administrative law
judge. The order may include an order to abate the violation, pay civil penalties and
administrative costs, or take any other action as authorized or required by this Title and
applicable state codes.
(3) “Administrative Law Judge” or “hearing officer” means the position established by Magna
Municipal Code § 1.16 “Administrative Hearing.”
(4) “Animal Control Administrator” or "means the supervisor of the Animal Control Division,
established in Magna Municipal Code § 8.1.
(5) “Council” means the Council of Magna.
(6) “Code Enforcement Lien” means a lien recorded to collect outstanding civil penalties,
administrative fees, and costs.
(7) “Code Enforcement Performance Bond” means a bond posted by a responsible person to
ensure compliance with the Municipal Code, applicable state titles, a judicial action, or an
administrative code enforcement order.
(8) “County” means Salt Lake County, Utah.
(9) “Department” means the Municipality's Planning and Development Services Department, or
its designee.
(10) “Director” means the director of the Municipality’s Planning and Development Services
Department or his/her authorized agent(s) or any other person/entity and their authorized
agent(s) that the Municipality has authorized to provide code enforcement services.
(11) “Enforcement Official” means any person authorized to enforce violations of the Municipal
Code or applicable state codes,
(12) “Financial Institution” means any person that holds a recorded mortgage or deed of trust on
a property
Page: 7

(13) “Good Cause” means incapacitating illness; death; lack of proper notice; unavailability due to
unavoidable, unpreventable, or extenuating emergency or circumstance; if a required act causes
an imminent and irreparable injury; and acts of nature adverse to performing required acts
(14) “Imminent Life Safety Hazard” means any condition that creates a present, extreme, and
immediate danger to life, property, health, or public safety.
(15) “Legal Interest” means any interest that is represented by a document, such as a deed of trust,
quitclaim deed, mortgage, judgment lien, tax or assessment lien, mechanic's lien, or other similar
instrument that is recorded with the County Recorder.
(16) “Metro Township” or “Municipality” means the area within the territorial municipal limits
of Magna, and such territory outside of this Municipality over which the Magna has jurisdiction
or control by virtue of any constitutional or incorporation provisions or any law.
(17) “Minor violation” means nuisance violations, as defined in state law and by Utah State
Courts, to include:
a. Land uses that do not conform to existing zoning of the property;
b. Unauthorized collections of motor vehicles that are unlicensed, unregistered, and/or
inoperable;
c. Trash, litter, illegal dumping, and weeds;
d. Nuisance noise and lighting;
e. Illegal advertising; and
f. The unauthorized use of public streets and sidewalks that stem from news racks,
merchandise displays, mobile food vending, and other such illegal uses.
(18) “Notice of Compliance” means a document issued by the Municipality, representing that a
property complies with the requirements outlined in the notice of violation.
(19) “Notice of Satisfaction” means a document or form approved by the Administrative Law
Judge or his or her designee, which indicates that all outstanding civil penalties and costs have
been either paid in full, or that the Municipality has negotiated an agreed amount, or that a
subsequent administrative or judicial decision has resolved the outstanding debt. In addition to
the satisfaction of the financial debt, the property must also be in compliance with the
requirements outlined in the notice of violation.
(20) “Notice of Violation” means a written notice prepared by an enforcement official that
informs a responsible person of code violations and orders them to take certain steps to correct
the violations.
(21) “Oath” includes affirmations and oaths.
Page: 8

(22) “Person” means any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
association, club, company, corporation, business trust, organization, or the manager, lessee,
agent, sergeant, officer, or employee of any of them, or any other entity that is recognized by law
as the subject of rights or duties.
| (23) “Program” means the Code Enforcement and Community Enhancement Program authorized
under this Title.
(24) “Property Owner” means the record owner of real property based on the county assessor's
records. ,
(25) “Public Nuisance” means any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist that
constitutes a threat to the public's health, safety, and welfare, or that significantly obstructs,
injures, or interferes with the reasonable or free use of property in a neighborhood or
community or by any considerable number of persons. A public nuisance also has the same
meaning as set forth in the Utah Code Annotated.
(26) “Responsible Person” means a person who has charge, care, or control of any premises,
dwelling, or dwelling unit as the legal or equitable owner, agent of the owner, lessee, or as an
executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. In all cases, the person
with legal title to any premises, dwelling, or dwelling unit shall be considered a responsible
person, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof.
(27) “Written” includes handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, computer printed, or facsimile.
(28) “Magna,” means Magna, a municipal corporation under state law. May also be referred to
“the Metro Township” and/or “the Municipality” pursuant to Utah Code § 68-3-12.5(6).
SECTION 16: ADOPTION “12.01.111 ACT INCLUDE CAUSING, AIDING,
AND ABETTING?” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.01.111 Acts Include Causing, Aiding, And Abetting(Added)
Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful in this Title, it shall include causing, permitting,
aiding, or abetting such act or omission
Page: 9

SECTION 17: ADOPTION “12.01.200 PART 2 - SERVICE REQUIREMENTS’ of
the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.01.200 PART 2 - SERVICE REQUIREMENT S(Added)
SECTION 18: ADOPTION “12.01.210 SERVICE OF PROCESS” of the Magna
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.01.210 SERVICE OF PROCESS(Added)
(1) Whenever service is required to be given under this Title, service shall be made in accordance
with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-2 or any applicable successor statute(s), unless another form of
service is required by law.
(2) If service complies with the requirements of this Section, it shall be deemed a valid service
even if a party claims not to have received the service and it shall not affect the validity of any
proceedings taken under this Title.
(3) The failure to serve all responsible person(s) shall not affect the validity of any proceedings.
SECTION 19: ADOPTION “12.01.220 CONSTRUCTIVE NOTICE OF
RECORDED DOCUMENTS?’ of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12,01.220 CONSTRUCTIVE NOTICE OF RECORDED DOCUMENTS(Added)
Whenever a document is recorded with the County recorder as authorized or required by this
Title or applicable state codes, recordation shall provide constructive notice of the information
contained in the recorded documents.
Page: 10

SECTION 20: ADOPTION “12.01.300 PART 3 - GENERAL AUTHORITY AND

OFFENSES” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:

ADOPTION
12.01.300 PART 3 - GENERAL AUTHORITY AND OFFENSES(Added)

SECTION 21: ADOPTION “12.01.310 GENERAL ENFORCEMENT

AUTHORITY” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:

ADOPTION
12.01.310 GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY(Added)
Whenever the Director or enforcement official finds that a violation of the Municipal Code or
applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, the appropriate administrative
enforcement procedure may be used as outlined in this Title. The Director or any designated
enforcement official has the authority and power necessary to gain compliance with the
provisions of the Municipal Code and applicable state codes. These powers include the power to
issue notices of violation and administrative citations, inspect public and private property, abate
public and private property, and use whatever judicial and administrative remedies are available
under the Municipal Code or applicable state codes.

SECTION 22: ADOPTION “{2.01.320 ADOPTION OF POLICY AND

PROCEDURES” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:

ADOPTION
12.01.3220 ADOPTION OF POLICY AND PROCEDURES(Added)
The Administrative Law Judge is authorized to develop policies and procedures relating to the
hearing procedures, scope of hearings, subpoena powers, and other matters relating to the
Program.

Page: 11

SECTION 23: ADOPTION “12.01.330 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT” of the
Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.01.330 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT(Added)
The Director or any designated enforcement official is authorized to enter upon any property or
premises to ascertain whether the provisions of the Municipal Code or applicable state codes are
being obeyed and to make any examinations and surveys as may be necessary in the performance
of the enforcement duties. This may include the taking of photographs, samples, or other
physical evidence. All inspections, entries, examinations, and surveys shall be done in a
reasonable manner based upon cause. If the responsible person refuses to allow the enforcement
official to enter the property, the enforcement official shall obtain a search warrant.
SECTION 24: ADOPTION “21.01.340 POWER TO ARREST” of the Magna
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.01.340 Power To Arrest(Added)
The Director or any designated enforcement official is authorized to issue a misdemeanor
citation or administrative citation whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the person
has committed a violation of the Municipal Code or applicable state codes in the enforcement
official's presence.
SECTION 25: ADOPTION “12.01.350 FALSE INFORMATION OR REFUSAL
PROHIBITED” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.01.350 FALSE INFORMATION OR REFUSAL PROHIBITED(Added)
Page: 12

It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make a false statement or refuse to give his or her
name or address with intent to deceive or interfere with a duly authorized Magna Municipal
official or agent, including but not limited to the Director any authorized enforcement officials,
when in the performance of his or her official duties under the provisions of this Title. A
violation of this Section is a class B misdemeanor.
SECTION 26: ADOPTION “FAILURE TO OBEY A SUBPOENA’ of the Magna
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.01.360 Failure To Obey A Subpoena(Added)
It is unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for an administrative code
enforcement hearing. Failure to obey a subpoena constitutes contempt and is a class B
misdemeanor.
SECTION 27: ADOPTION “12.02.010 AUTHORITY?” of the Magna Municipal
Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.010 AUTHORITY(Added)
Any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist in violation of any provisions of the
Municipal Code or applicable state codes that constitutes a violation may be abated by the
Municipality pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Chapter.
SECTION 28: ADOPTION “12.02.020 NOTICE OF VIOLATION” of the Magna
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.020 NOTICE OF VIOLATION(Added)
Page: 13

(1) Whenever the Director or any designated enforcement official determines that a violation of
the Municipal Code or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, the Director or
enforcement official will issue a notice of violation to a responsible person. The notice of
violation shall include the following information and shall comply with Utah Code § 10-11-2 or
| the applicable successor statute(s):
a. Name of the property owner of record according to the records of the County Recorder;
b. Street address of violation;
c. Nature and results of the examination and investigation conducted;
d. Date and approximate time the violation was observed;
e. All code sections violated and description of condition of the property that violates the
applicable codes;
f. A statement explaining the type of remedial action required to permanently correct
outstanding violations, which may include corrections, repairs, demolition, removal,
eradication, destruction, or other appropriate action;
g. A specific date for the responsible party to correct the violations listed in the notice of
violation, which date shall be at least ten days from the date of service unless the Director
determines that the violation requires emergency abatement under Section 12.02.200; h.
Explanation of the consequences should the responsible person fail to comply with the terms
and deadlines as prescribed in the notice of violation, which may include, but is not limited
to, criminal prosecution; civil penalties; revocation of permits; recordation of the notice of
violation; withholding of future municipal permits; abatement of the violation by the
Municipality and re-payment to the Municipality for the costs of the abatement; other costs
incurred by the Municipality; administrative fees; and any other legal remedies;
i. That civil penalties will begin to accrue immediately on expiration of the date to correct
violations;
j. The amount of the civil penalty on each violation and that the penalty will accrue daily
until the property is brought into compliance;
k. That only one notice of violation is required for any 12-month period, and that civil
penalties begin immediately upon any subsequent violations of the notice. The responsible
person may request a hearing on the renewed violations by following the same procedure as
provided for the original notice;
I. Procedures to appeal the notice and request a hearing as provided in Section 12.02.530,
and consequences for failure to request one; and
m. Procedures to request an inspection after the violation has been abated pursuant to
Section 12.02.040.
Page: 14

(2) The notice of violation shall be served by one of the methods of service listed in Section
| 12.01.210 of this Title.
(3) More than one notice of violation may be issued against the same responsible person, if it
encompasses different dates, or different violations.
SECTION 29: ADOPTION “12.02.030 FAILURE TO BRING PROPERTY INTO
COMPLIANCE?” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.030 FAILURE TO BRING PROPERTY INTO COMPLIANCE(Added)
(1) Ifa responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance within the compliance period
specified in the notice of violation, civil penalties shall be owed to the Municipality for each and
every subsequent day of violation. (2) Failure to comply with the notice of violation is a Class C
misdemeanor.
SECTION 30: ADOPTION “12.02.040 INSPECTIONS” of the Magna Municipal
Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.040 INSPECTIONS(Added) ;
It shall be the duty of the responsible person served with a notice of violation to request in
writing an inspection when his or her property has been brought into compliance. It is prima
facie evidence that the violation remains on the property if no inspection is requested. Civil
penalties accumulate daily until the property has been inspected and a notice of compliance is
issued. Re-inspection fees shall be assessed if more than one inspection is necessary.
SECTION 31: ADOPTION “12.02.” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added
as follows:
Page: 15

ADOPTION
12.02.200 Part 2 - Emergency Abatement(Added)
SECTION 32: ADOPTION “12.02.210 AUTHORITY” of the Magna Municipal
Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
|
| 12.02.210 AUTHORITY(Added)
(1) Whenever the Director determines that an’‘imminent life safety hazard exists that requires
immediate correction or elimination, the Director may exercise the following powers without
prior notice to the responsible person:
a. Order the immediate vacation of any tenants, and prohibit occupancy or entry until all
| repairs are completed, provided that an order prohibiting entry shall specify how entry is to
be made to mitigate damage, complete repairs, retrieve personal property, or for any other
purpose, if any, during the abatement process.
b. Post the premises as unsafe, substandard, or dangerous;
c. Board, fence, or secure the building or site;
d. Raze and grade that portion of the building or site to prevent further collapse, and remove
any hazard to the general public;
e. Make any minimal emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any imminent life safety
hazard; or
f. Take any other action appropriate to eliminate the emergency.
(2) The Director and his or her agents have the authority, based on cause, to enter the property
without a search warrant or court order to accomplish the above listed acts to abate the safety
hazard.
(3) The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated with the abatement of the life
safety hazard. Costs may be recovered pursuant to this Title.
Page: 16

SECTION 33: ADOPTION “12.02.220 PROCEDURES” of the Magna Municipal
Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
| 12.02.220 PROCEDURES(Added)
(1) The Director shall pursue only the minimum level of correction or abatement as necessary to
eliminate the immediacy of the hazard. Costs incurred by the Municipality during the emergency
abatement process shall be assessed and recovered against the responsible person through the
procedures outlined in Chapter 12.03 of this Title regarding “Administrative and Judicial
| Remedies” section.
(2) The Director may also pursue any other valid and legal administrative or judicial remedy to
abate any remaining violations.
SECTION 34: ADOPTION “12.02.230 NOTICE OF EMERGENCY
ABATEMENT?” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.230 NOTICE OF EMERGENCY ABATEMENT(Added)
After an emergency abatement, the Municipality shall notify the owner or responsible person of
the abatement action taken in writing. This notice shall be served within ten days of completion
of the abatement and will describe in reasonable detail the abatement actions taken.
SECTION 35: ADOPTION “12.02.300 PART 3 - DEMOLITIONS?’ of the Magna
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.300 PART 3 - DEMOLITIONS(Added)
Page: 17

SECTION 36: ADOPTION “12.02.310 AUTHORITY” of the Magna Municipal
Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.310 AUTHORITY(Added)
Whenever the Director determines that a property or building requires demolition, he or she
may demolish or remove the offending structure, or exercise any or all of the powers listed in
Section 12.2.210 once appropriate notice has been given to a responsible person pursuant to the
Uniform Abatement of Dangerous Buildings Code or Uniform Fire Codes as required under state
law, provided that the notice shall include a written description of the Director's findings
explaining the need for the demolition and citations to the applicable ordinances or laws
authorizing the demolition. The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated with the
demolition. Costs may be recovered pursuant to this Title.
SECTION 37: ADOPTION “12.02.320 PROCEDURES” of the Magna Municipal
Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.320 PROCEDURES(Added)
Once the Director has determined that the Municipality's Chief Building Inspector or the Fire
Marshal has complied with all of the notice requirements of the applicable laws, the property will
be demolished. Other applicable remedies may also be pursued.
SECTION 38: ADOPTION “12.02.400 PART 4 - ADMINISTRATIVE
CITATIONS” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.400 PART 4 - ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS(Added)
Page: 18

SECTION 39: ADOPTION “12.02.410.” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby
added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.410 Declaration Of Purpose(Added)
The Council finds that there is a need for an alternative method of enforcement for minor
violations of the Municipal Code and applicable state codes. The Council further finds that an
appropriate method of enforcement is an administrative citation program. The procedures
established in this Part shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other legal remedy established
by law that may be pursued to address violations of the Municipal Code or applicable state codes.
SECTION 40: ADOPTION “12.02.420 AUTHORITY” of the Magna Municipal
Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.420 AUTHORITY(Added)
(1) Any person violating any minor provision of the Municipal Code or applicable state codes
may be issued an administrative citation by an enforcement official as provided in this Part.
(2) A civil penalty shall be assessed by means of an administrative citation issued by the
enforcement official and shall be payable directly to the Municipality's Treasurer's Office, or
other office designated to receive payment on behalf of the Municipality.
(3) Penalties assessed by means of an administrative citation shall be collected in accordance with
the procedures specified in the remedies section of this Title.
SECTION 41: ADOPTION “12.02.430 PROCEDURES” of the Magna Municipal
Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
Page: 19

12.02.430 PROCEDURES(Added)
(1) Upon discovering any violation of the Municipal Code or applicable state codes an
enforcement official may issue an administrative citation to a responsible person in the manner
prescribed in this Part or as prescribed in Section 12.01.210. The administrative citation shall be
issued on a form approved by the Director.
(2) If the responsible person is a business, the enforcement official shall attempt to locate the
business owner and issue an administrative citation to the business owner. If the enforcement
official can only locate the manager of the business, the administrative citation may be given to
the manager of the business. A copy of the administrative citation may also be mailed to the
business owner or any other responsible person in the manner prescribed in Section 12.01.210 of
this Title.
(3) Once the responsible person has been located, the enforcement official shall attempt to obtain
the signature of that person on the administrative citation. If the responsible person refuses or
fails to sign the administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not affect the validity of
the citation and subsequent proceedings.
(4) If the enforcement official is unable to locate the responsible person for the violation, then the
administrative citation shall be mailed to the responsible person in the manner prescribed in
Section 12.01.210 of this Title.
(5) If no one can be located at the property, then the administrative citation may be posted in a
conspicuous place on or near the property and a copy subsequently mailed to the responsible
person in the manner prescribed by Section 12.01.210 of this Title.
(6) The administrative citation shall also contain the signature of the enforcement official.
(7) The failure of any person with an interest in the property to receive notice shall not affect the
validity of any proceedings taken under this Part.
SECTION 42: ADOPTION “12.02.440 CONTENTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE
CITATION” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.440 CONTENTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION(Added)
Page: 20

Administrative citations shall include the information required in Section 12.2.020 and shall: (1)
State the amount of penalty imposed for the minor violations; and (2) Explain how the penalty
shall be paid, the time period by which the penalty shall be paid, and the consequences of failure
to pay the penalty.
SECTION 43: ADOPTION “12.02.450 CIVIL PENALTIES ASSESSED” of the
Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.450 CIVIL PENALTIES ASSESSED(Added)
(1) The Council shall establish policies to assist in the assessment of civil penalties for
administrative citations.
(2) Civil penalties shall be assessed immediately for each violation listed on the administrative
citation. The penalties shall be those established in the Consolidated Fee Schedule.
(3) Payment of the penalty shall not excuse the failure to correct the violations, nor shall it bar
further enforcement action by the Municipality.
SECTION 44: ADOPTION “12.02.500 PART 5 - HEARING PROCEDURES” of
the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.500 PART 5 - HEARING PROCEDURES(Added)
SECTION 45: ADOPTION “12.02.510 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE’ of the
Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.510 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE(Added)
Page: 21

The Council finds that there is a need to establish uniform procedures for administrative code
enforcement hearings conducted pursuant to the Municipal Code. It is the purpose and intent of
the Council to afford due process of law to any person who is directly affected by an
administrative action. Due process of law includes notice, an opportunity to participate in the
administrative hearing, and an explanation of the reasons justifying the administrative action.
These procedures are also intended to establish a forum to efficiently, expeditiously, and fairly
resolve issues raised in any administrative code enforcement action.
SECTION 46: ADOPTION “12.02.520 AUTHORITY AND SCOPE OF
HEARINGS’ of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.520 AUTHORITY AND SCOPE OF HEARINGS(Added)
The Administrative Law Judge will preside over hearings of Municipal Code violations. The
Administrative Law Judge shall develop policies and procedures to regulate the hearing process
for any violation of the Municipal Code and applicable state codes that are handled pursuant to
the administrative abatement procedures, the emergency abatement procedures, the demolition
procedures, or the administrative citation procedures. If there is a conflict between the appeal
procedures in this Title and the appeal procedures in another code incorporated by the
Township, this Title shall control.
SECTION 47: ADOPTION “12.02.530 REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE
CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING?” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.530 REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING(Added)
(1) A person served with one of the following documents or notices has the right to request an
administrative code enforcement hearing, if the request is filed within 20 calendar days from the
date of service of one of the following notices:
a. Notice of violation;
b. Notice of itemized bill for costs;
c. Administrative citation;
Page: 22

d. Notice of emergency abatement;
(2) The request for hearing shall be made in writing and filed with the Administrative Law Judge.
The request shall contain the case number, the address of the violation, and the signature of the
responsible party.
(3) As soon as practicable after receiving the written notice of the request for hearing, the
Administrative Law Judge shall schedule a date, time, and place for the hearing.

(4) Failure to request a hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing and
a waiver of the right to challenge the action.
SECTION 48: ADOPTION “12.02.540 HEARINGS AND ORDERS’ of the Magna
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION

12.02.540 HEARINGS AND ORDERS(Added)
(1) If the responsible person fails to request a hearing before the expiration of the 20-day
deadline, the Director may request a default hearing, which the Administrative Law Judge shall
schedule. The responsible person shall be notified of the date, time, and place of the hearing by
one of the methods listed in Section 12.02.210.
(2) A default hearing shall be scheduled for all cases that have outstanding or unpaid civil
penalties, fines, fees and/or costs due to the Municipality before collection, if a hearing on that
case has not already been held.
(3) At any hearing, the responsible person shall have the opportunity to present evidence to show
that good cause exists, as defined in the Title, to do one or more of the following in addition to
any other rights afforded under other provisions of the Municipal Code or applicable law:

a. Waive or reduce the fines which have accumulated;

b. Postpone an abatement action by the Municipality; or

c. Excuse the responsible person's failure to request a hearing within the 20-day period. .
(4) If the responsible person fails to establish good cause to take one or more of the actions set
forth in paragraph (3), the Administrative Law Judge shall review the notice of violation and any
other relevant information included in the case file. The Administrative Law Judge shall not
accept any other evidence.

Page: 23

a. If the evidence shows that the violations existed, the Administrative Law Judge shall enter
an order requiring abatement of the violations, and the payment of all fines and fees. Fines
shall run until the Municipality issues a Notice of Compliance stating when the violations
were actually abated.
SECTION 49: ADOPTION “12.02.550 NOTIFICATION OF
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING?” of the Magna Municipal Code is
hereby added as follows:
)
|
| ADOPTION
12.02.550 NOTIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
HEARING(Added)
(1) Written notice of the day, time, and place of the hearing shall be served to a responsible
person as soon as practicable prior to the date of the hearing.
(2) The format and contents of the hearing notice shall be in accordance with rules and policies
promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge.
(3) The notice of hearing shall be served by any of the methods of service listed in Section
12.01.210 of this Title.
SECTION 50: ADOPTION “12.02.560 DISQUALIFICATION OF
ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.560 DISQUALIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE(Added)
(1) A responsible person may file a written motion to disqualify an Administrative Law Judge for
bias, prejudice, a conflict of interest, or any other reason for which a judge may be disqualified in
a court of law. The motion to disqualify shall be accompanied by an affidavit or unsworn
declaration as described in Title 78B of the Utah Code or applicable successor statute(s) signed by
the responsible person, which shall:
a. State that the motion is filed in good faith;
Page: 24

b. Allege facts sufficient to show, bias, prejudice, a conflict of interest, or any other reason
that would disqualify a judge in a court of law in Utah; and
c. State when and how the Responsible Party came to know of the reason for
disqualification.
(2) The responsible person must file the motion within 21 days of the assignment of the action to
an Administrative Law Judge or the date on which the responsible person knew or should have
known of the grounds on which the motion is based, whichever is later.
(3) A responsible person can only file one motion to disqualify an Administrative Law Judge,
unless a second or subsequent motion is based on grounds that the responsible person did not
| know of and could not have known of at the time of the earlier motion.
(4) The Administrative Law Judge who is the subject of a motion to disqualify must, without
taking any further action, provide the Director with a copy of the motion and refer the motion to
the Council.
(5) Upon receipt of a motion to disqualify, the Council will schedule and notice the matter for
review at its next regular scheduled meeting. The Council may, in its sole discretion, elect to hold
a special meeting to hear the motion before its next regularly scheduled meeting. The Council
shall first review the motion to disqualify to determine if it satisfies the requirements of
paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Section. If the motion to disqualify does not satisfy the
requirements of this Section, the Council will deny the motion and remand it to the
Administrative Law Judge for further proceedings. If the motion to disqualify satisfies the
requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Section, the Council shall determine whether the
motion is legally sufficient to warrant disqualification. If the Council determines that
disqualification is warranted, it will assign the matter to another Administrative Law Judge. If the
Council determines that the motion to disqualify is not legally sufficient, it will remand the
matter back to the Administrative Law Judge.
SECTION 51: ADOPTION “12.02.570 POWERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE
LAW JUDGE” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.570 POWERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE(Added)
(1) The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to hold hearings, determine if violations of
Municipal ordinances exist, order compliance with Municipal ordinances, and enforce
compliance as provided in this Title on any matter subject to the provisions of the Title.
Page: 25

(2) The Administrative Law Judge may continue a hearing based on good cause shown by one of
the parties to the hearing. The Administrative Law Judge must enter on the record the good
cause on which a continuance is granted.
(3) The Administrative Law Judge, at the request of any party to the hearing, may sign subpoenas
for witnesses, documents, and other evidence where the attendance of the witness for the
admission of evidence is deemed necessary to decide the issues at the hearing. All costs related to
the subpoena, including witness and mileage fees, shall be borne by the party requesting the
subpoena. The Administrative Law Judge shall develop policies and procedures relating to the
issuance of subpoenas in administrative code enforcement hearings, including the form of the
subpoena and related costs.
(4) The Administrative Law Judge has continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter of an
administrative code enforcement hearing for the purposes of granting a continuance; ordering
compliance by issuing an administrative code enforcement order using any remedies available
under the law; ensuring compliance of that order, which includes the right to authorize the
Municipality to enter and abate a violation; modifying an administrative code enforcement order;
or, where extraordinary circumstances exist, granting a new hearing.
(5) The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to require a responsible person to post a
code enforcement performance bond to ensure compliance with an administrative code
enforcement order.

SECTION 52: ADOPTION “12.02.580 PROCEDURES AT ADMINISTRATIVE
CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING?” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:

ADOPTION
12.02.580 PROCEDURES AT ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING(Added)
(1) Administrative code enforcement hearings are intended to be informal in nature. Formal
rules of evidence and discovery do not apply; however, an informal exchange of discovery may be
required. The request must be in writing. Failure to request discovery shall not be a basis for a
continuance. Complainant information is protected and shall not be released unless the
complainant is a witness at the hearing. The procedure and format of the administrative hearing
shall follow the procedures promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge.
(2) The Municipality bears the burden of proof at an administrative code enforcement hearing to
establish the existence of a violation of the Municipal Code or applicable state codes.
Page: 26

(3) The standard of proof to be used by the Administrative Law Judge in deciding the issues at an
administrative hearing is whether the preponderance of the evidence shows that the violations
exist.
(4) Each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses and present evidence in
| support of his or her case. A written declaration signed under penalty of perjury may be accepted
| in lieu of a personal appearance. Testimony may be given by telephone or other electronic means.
Pp PP y beg P
(5) All hearings are open to the public. They shall be recorded by audio tape. Hearings may be
held at the location of the violation.
(6) The responsible person has a right to be represented by an attorney. If an attorney will be
| representing the responsible person at the hearing, notice of the attorney's name, address, and
telephone number must be given to the Municipality at least one day prior to the hearing. If
notice is not given, the hearing may be continued at the Municipality's request, and all costs of
the continuance assessed to the responsible person.
(7) No new hearing shall be granted, unless the Administrative Law Judge determines that
extraordinary circumstances exist which justify a new hearing.
SECTION 53: ADOPTION “12.02.590 FAILURE TO ATTEND
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING?’ of the Magna Municipal Code is
hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.02.590 FAILURE TO ATTEND ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
HEARING(Added)
Any party whose property or actions are the subject of any administrative code enforcement
hearing and who fails to appear at the hearing is deemed to waive the right to a hearing and will
result in a default judgment for the Municipality, provided that proper notice of the hearing has
been provided.
SECTION 54: ADOPTION “12.02.591 ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
Page: 27

12.02.591 Administrative Code Enforcement Order(Added)

(1) Once all evidence and testimony are completed, the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an
administrative code enforcement order that affirms, modifies, or rejects the notice or citation.
The Administrative Law Judge may increase or decrease the total amount of civil penalties and
costs that are due pursuant to the Municipality's fee schedule and the procedures in this Title.

(2) The parties may enter into a stipulated agreement, which must be signed by both parties. This
agreement shall be entered as a stipulated administrative code enforcement order. Entry of this
agreement shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing and the right to appeal.

(3) The Administrative Law Judge may order the Municipality to enter the property and abate all
violations, including but not limited to demolitions and the removal of vehicles, garbage,
animals, and other property kept in violation of the Municipal Code.

| (4) The Administrative Law Judge may revoke a kennel permit, an animal license, or the right to
possess animals as provided in the Municipal Code.

(5) As part of the administrative code enforcement order, the Administrative Law Judge may
condition the total or partial assessment of civil penalties on the responsible person's ability to
complete compliance by specified deadlines.
(6) The Administrative Law Judge may schedule subsequent review hearings as may be necessary
or as requested by a party to the hearing to ensure compliance with the administrative code
enforcement order.
(7) The Administrative Law Judge may order the responsible person to post a performance bond
to ensure compliance with the order.
(8) The administrative code enforcement order shall become final on the date of the signing of
the order.
(9) The administrative code enforcement order shall be served on all parties by any one of the
methods listed in Section 12.01.210 of this Title.

SECTION 55: ADOPTION “12.02.595 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER”
of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:

ADOPTION
12.02.595 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER(Added)
Page: 28

(1) Upon the failure of the responsible person to comply with the terms and deadlines set forth in

the administrative code enforcement order, the Municipality may abate the violation as provided

in Chapter 3, Part 3 of this Title and use all appropriate legal means to recover the civil penalties

and administrative costs to obtain compliance. ;

(2) After the Administrative Law Judge issues an administrative code enforcement order, the
Administrative Law Judge shall monitor the violations and determine compliance.

SECTION 56: ADOPTION “12.02.600 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT
APPEALS’ of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:

ADOPTION
12.02.600 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT APPEALS(Added)

SECTION 57: ADOPTION “12.02.610 APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
ENFORCEMENT HEARING DECISION” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as
follows:

ADOPTION
12.02.610 APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING
DECISION(Added)
(1) Any person adversely affected by any decision made in the exercise of the provisions of this
Chapter may file a petition for review of the decision or order by the district court within 30 days
after the decision is rendered.
(2) No person may challenge in district court an administrative code enforcement hearing
officer's decision until that person has exhausted his or her administrative remedies.
(3) Within 120 days after submitting the petition, the party petitioning for appeal shall request a
copy of the record of the proceedings, including transcripts of hearings when necessary. The
Administrative Law Judge shall not submit copies of files or transcripts to the reviewing court
until the party petitioning for appeal has paid all required costs. The petitioning party's failure to
properly arrange for copies of the record, or to pay the full costs for the record, within 180 days
after the petition for review was filed shall be grounds for dismissal of the petition.

Page: 29

a. If a transcript of a hearing cannot be prepared because the tape recording is incomplete or

unintelligible, the district court may, in its discretion, remand the matter to the

Administrative Law Judge for a supplemental proceeding to complete the record. The

district court may limit the scope of the supplemental proceeding to issues that, in the

court's opinion, need to be clarified.
(4) The district court's review is limited to the record of the administrative decision that is being
appealed. The court shall not accept nor consider any evidence that is not part of the record of
that decision.
(5) The courts shall:

a. Presume that the administrative code enforcement hearing officer's decision and orders

| are valid; and
b. Review the record to determine whether or not the decision was arbitrary, capricious, or
illegal.
SECTION 58: ADOPTION “12.03.100 PART 1 - RECORDATION OF NOTICES
OF VIOLATION?” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.03.100 PART 1 - RECORDATION OF NOTICES OF VIOLATION(Added)
SECTION 59: ADOPTION “12.03.110 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE’ of the
Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.03.110 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE(Added)
The Council finds that there is a need for alternative methods of enforcement for violations of
the Municipal Code and applicable state codes that are found to exist on real property. The
Council further finds that an appropriate method of enforcement for these types of violations is
the issuance and recordation of notices of violation. The procedures established in this Part shall
be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other remedy established by law that may be pursued to
address the violation of the Municipal Code or applicable state codes.
Page: 30

SECTION 60: ADOPTION “12.03.120 AUTHORITY” of the Magna Municipal

| Code is hereby added as follows:

ADOPTION
12.03.120 AUTHORITY(Added)
Whenever the Director determines that a property or violation has not been brought into
compliance as required in this Title, the Director has the authority, in his or her discretion, to
record the notice of violation or administrative code enforcement order with the County
Recorder's Office.

SECTION 61: ADOPTION “12.03.130 PROCEDURES FOR RECORDATION” of
the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.03.130 PROCEDURES FOR RECORDATION(Added)
(1) Once the Director has issued a notice of violation to a responsible person, and the property
remains in violation after the deadline established in the notice of violation, and no request for an
administrative hearing has been filed, the Director shall record a notice of violation with the
County Recorder's Office.
(2) If an administrative hearing is held, and an order is issued in the Municipality's favor, the
Director shall record the administrative code enforcement order with the County Recorder's
Office.
(3) The recordation shall include the name of the property owner, the parcel number, the legal
description of the parcel, and a copy of the notice of violation or order.
(4) The recordation does not encumber the property, but merely places future interested parties
on notice of any continuing violation found upon the property.
Page: 37

SECTION 62: ADOPTION “12.03.140 SERVICE NOTICE OF RECORDATION”
of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
|
ADOPTION
12.03.140 SERVICE NOTICE OF RECORDATION(Added)
A notice of the recordation shall be served on the responsible person and the property owner
pursuant to any of the methods of service set forth in Section 12.01.210 of this Title.
SECTION 63: ADOPTION “12.03.150 FAILURE TO REQUEST” of the Magna
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.03.150 FAILURE TO REQUEST(Added)
The failure of any person to file a request for an administrative code enforcement hearing when
served with a notice of violation shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative
hearing and shall not affect the validity of the recorded notice of violation.
SECTION 64: ADOPTION “12.03.160 NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE -
PROCEDURES” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.03.160 NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE - PROCEDURES(Added)
(1) When the violations have been corrected, the responsible person or property owner may
request an inspection of the property from the Director.
(2) Upon receipt of a request for inspection, the Director shall re-inspect the property as soon as
practicable to determine whether the violations listed in the notice of violation or the order have
been corrected, and whether all necessary permits have been issued and final inspections have
been performed.
Page: 32

(3) The Director shall serve a notice of satisfaction to the responsible person or property owner
in the manner provided in Section 12.02.210 of this Title, if the Director determines that:
(4) All violations listed in the recorded notice of violation or order has been corrected; (5) All
necessary permits have been issued and finalized;
(6) All civil penalties assessed against the property have been paid or satisfied; and
(7) The party requesting the notice of satisfaction has paid all administrative fees and costs.
(8) If the Director denies a request to issue a notice of satisfaction, upon request the Director shall
serve the responsible person with a written explanation setting forth the reasons for the denial.
The written explanation shall be served by any of the methods of service listed in Section
12.01.210 of this Title.

SECTION 65: ADOPTION “12.03.170 PROHIBITION AGAINST ISSUANCE OF
MUNICIPAL PERMITS” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:

ADOPTION

12.03.170 Withholding Of Municipal Permits For Noncompliant Properties( Added)
The Municipality may, in its sole discretion, withhold any municipal permit that has been
requested for a property that is in violation of any provision of the Municipal Code until the
Director issues a notice of satisfaction for the applicable violation(s) pursuant to this
TitleDirector The Municipality may not withhold permits that are necessary to obtain a notice of
satisfaction or that are necessary to correct serious health and safety violations.

SECTION 66: ADOPTION “12.03.180 CANCELLATION OF RECORDED
NOTICE OF VIOLATION” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:

ADOPTION
12.03.180 CANCELLATION OF RECORDED NOTICE OF VIOLATION(Added)
Page: 33

The Director or responsible person shall record the notice of satisfaction with the County
Recorder's Office. Recordation of the notice of satisfaction shall cancel the recorded notice of
violation.
SECTION 67: ADOPTION “12.03.200 PART 2 - ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL
| PENALTIES” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION

12.03.200 PART 2 - ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL PENALTIES(Added)

SECTION 68: ADOPTION “12.03.210 AUTHORITY” of the Magna Municipal
Code is hereby added as follows:

ADOPTION
12.03.210 AUTHORITY(Added)
(1) Any person violating any provision of the Municipal Code or applicable state codes may be
subject to the assessment of civil penalties for each violation.
(2) Each and every day a violation of any provision of the Municipal Code or applicable state
codes exists is a separate violation subject to the assessment of civil penalties.
(3) Civil penalties cannot be assessed when a criminal case has been filed for the same date and
violation, because fines will be assessed with the criminal case.
(4) Interest shall be assessed per Municipal policy, or at the judgment rate provided in Utah Code
Ann. § 15-1-4 in the absence of a Municipal policy, on all outstanding civil penalties balances
until the case has been paid in full.
(5) Civil penalties for violations of any provision of the Municipal Code or applicable state codes
shall be assessed pursuant to the Municipality’s applicable fee schedule.
Page: 34

SECTION 69: ADOPTION “12.03.220 PROCEDURES FOR ADDRESSING
CIVIL PENALTIES” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.03.220 PROCEDURES FOR ADDRESSING CIVIL PENALTIES(Added)
(1) If a responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance within ten days of service of
the notice of violation, civil penalties shall be owed to the Municipality for each and every
subsequent day of violation.
(2) Civil penalties are assessed and owing immediately for any violation of the Municipal Code or
applicable state codes for an administrative citation.
SECTION 70: ADOPTION “12.03.230 DETERMINATION OF CIVIL
PENALTIES” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.03.230 DETERMINATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES(Added)
(1) Civil penalties shall be assessed per violation per day pursuant to the applicable Municipal fee
schedule.
(2) Civil penalties shall continue to accrue until the violation(s) has/have been brought into
compliance with the Municipal Code or applicable state codes.
SECTION 71: ADOPTION “12.03.240 MODIFICATION OF CIVIL
PENALTIES” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.03.240 MODIFICATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES(Added)
Page: 35

(1) Upon completion of the notice of violation or administrative enforcement order, the
responsible person may request a modification of the civil penalties on a finding of good cause.
(2) Civil penalties may be waived or modified by the administrative law judge, in his or her
discretion, if there is a finding of good cause based on the responsible person's claim of
nonconforming use or conditional use and:
(3) The Municipality's need to verify the claim; or
|
(4) The responsible person's filing of an application for either use before expiration of the date to
correct.
|
SECTION 72: ADOPTION “12.03.250 FAILURE TO PAY PENALTIES” of the
Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.03.250 FAILURE TO PAY PENALTIES(Added)
The failure of any person to pay civil penalties assessed within the specified time may result in
the Director's pursuing any legal remedy to collect the civil penalties as provided in the law.
SECTION 73: ADOPTION “12.03.300 PART 3 - ABATEMENT OF
VIOLATION?” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.03.300 PART 3 - ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION(Added)
SECTION 74: ADOPTION “12.03.310 AUTHORITY TO ABATE’ of the Magna
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.03.310 AUTHORITY TO ABATE(Added)
Page: 36

The Director is authorized to enter upon any property or premises to abate the violation of the
Municipal Code and applicable state codes pursuant to this Part. The Director is authorized to
assess all costs for the abatement to the responsible person and use any remedy available under
the law to collect the costs. If additional abatements are necessary within two years, treble costs
may be assessed against the responsible person(s) for the actual abatement.
SECTION 75: ADOPTION “12.03.320 PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT” of
the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION

12.03.320 PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT(Added)
(1) The Director may abate a violation pursuant to this Part after providing notice under Section
12.02.020 and by following the process set forth in Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable
successor statute(s) if the Responsible Party or Parties:

a. Do not abate a violation within the time period prescribed in a notice issued pursuant to

Sections 12.02.020 and 12.02.400, et seq.; and

b. The Responsible Party or Parties did not file a request for an administrative code

enforcement hearing under Section 12.02.530.
(2) The Director may, in his or her discretion, request a default hearing pursuant to Section
12.02.504 but is not required to do so to abate the violation under this Part and may abate the
violation without a default hearing pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or applicable successor
statute(s).
(3) The Director may use Municipal personnel or by a private contractor acting under his or her
direction or the direction of the Municipality to abate the violation.
(4) Municipal personnel or a private contractor may enter upon private property in a reasonable
manner to abate the ordinance violation as specified in the notice of violation or administrative
code enforcement order.
(5) If the responsible person abates the violation before the Municipality performs the actual
abatement pursuant to a notice of violation or administrative code enforcement order, the
Director may still assess all costs incurred by the Municipality against the responsible person.
(6) When the abatement is completed, the Director shall prepare an itemized statement of the
work performed that complies with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable successor
statute(s).

Page: 37

(7) The Director shall serve the itemized statement on the responsible person in accordance with
Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable successor statute(s).
(8) The Administrative Law Judge shall hear any appeals filed by a responsible person in response
to an itemized statement issued under this Part and shall conduct such appeals and any related
hearings in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable successor statute(s).
SECTION 76: ADOPTION “12.03.400 PART 4 - COSTS” of the Magna
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION

12.03.400 PART 4 - COSTS(Added)

SECTION 77: ADOPTION “12.03.410 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE’ of the
Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:

ADOPTION
12.03.410 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE(Added)
(1) The Council finds that there is a need to recover costs incurred by enforcement officials and
other Municipality personnel who spend considerable time inspecting and re-inspecting
properties throughout the Municipality in an effort to ensure compliance with the Municipal
Code or applicable state codes.
(2) The Council further finds that the assessment of costs is an appropriate method to recover
expenses incurred for actual costs of abating violations, re-inspection fees, filing fees, attorney
fees, hearing officer fees, title search, and any additional actual costs incurred by the Municipality
for each individual case. The assessment and collection of costs shall not preclude the imposition
of any administrative or judicial civil penalties or fines for violations of the Municipal Code or
applicable state codes.
Page: 38

SECTION 78: ADOPTION “12.03.420 AUTHORITY” of the Magna Municipal
Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.03.420 AUTHORITY(Added)
(1) Whenever actual costs are incurred by the Municipality on a property to obtain compliance
with provisions of the Municipal Code and applicable state codes, the Director may assess costs
| against the responsible person.
(2) Once a notice of violation has been issued, the property will be inspected one time. Any
additional inspections shall be subject to re-inspection fees pursuant to the applicable
Municipality’s fee schedule.
SECTION 79: ADOPTION “12.03.430 NOTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENT
REINSPECTION FEES” of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.03.430 NOTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENT REINSPECTION FEES(Added)
(1) Notification of re-inspection fees shall be provided on the notice of violation served to the
responsible person(s).
(2) Re-inspection fees assessed or collected pursuant to this Part shall not be included in any
other costs assessed.
(3) The failure of any responsible person to receive notice of the re-inspection fees shall not
affect the validity of any other fees imposed under this Part.
SECTION 80: ADOPTION “12.03.440 FAILURE TO PAY TIMELY COSTS” of
the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
Page: 39

12.03.440 FAILURE TO PAY TIMELY COSTS(Added)
The failure of any person to pay assessed costs by the deadline specified in the invoice shall result
in a late fee pursuant to Municipal policy.
SECTION 81: ADOPTION “12.03.500 PART 5 - ADMINISTRATIVE FEES” of
the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
| 12.03.500 PART 5 - ADMINISTRATIVE FEES(Added)
SECTION 82: ADOPTION “12.03.510 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES” of the Magna
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.03.510 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES(Added)
The Director or the Administrative Law Judge is authorized to assess administrative fees for costs
incurred in the administration of this program, such as investigation of violations, preparation
for hearings, hearings, and the collection process. The fee assessed shall be the amount set in the
applicable Municipality's fee schedule.
SECTION 83: ADOPTION “12.03.600 PART 6 - INJUNCTIONS?’ of the Magna
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
ADOPTION
12.03.600 PART 6 - INJSUNCTIONS(Added)
SECTION 84: ADOPTION “12.03.610 CIVIL VIOLATIONS - INJUNCTIONS”
of the Magna Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:
Page: 40
