                  Aye

                  Aye

                  Aye

                  Aye

                  Aye




October 12, 2021
      October 12, 2021
       SECTION I.        The amendments made here are designated by underlining the new

substituted words. Words being deleted are designated by brackets and interlineations.

       SECTION II. Chapter 19.15 of the Magna Metro Township Code of Ordinances is enacted

as follows in order to authorize accessory dwelling units in certain residential zones and to enact

related regulations.

19.15.010 Purpose.

Magna Metro Township recognizes that Accessory Dwelling Units in single-family residential

zones can be an important tool in the overall housing plan for Magna. The purposes of the

Accessory Dwelling Unit standards of this code are to:

       A. Comply with pending State of Utah legislation which allows for Internal Accessory

           Dwelling Units generally and requires municipalities to adopt an ordinance if they wish

           to regulate certain requirements of the dwellings;

       B. Allow opportunities for property owners to provide social or personal support for

           family members where independent living is desirable;

       C. Provide for affordable housing opportunities;

       D. Make housing units available to moderate income people who might otherwise have

           difficulty finding housing in Magna;

       E. Provide opportunities for additional income to offset rising housing costs;

       F. Develop housing units in single-family neighborhoods that are appropriate for people

           at a variety of stages in the life cycle;




                                                   1
        G. Preserve the character of single-family neighborhoods by providing standards

            governing development of Accessory Dwelling Units; and

        H. Ensure that Accessory Dwelling Units are properly regulated by requiring property

            owners to obtain a business license and a building permit for an ADU prior to renting

            the ADU.

19.15.020 Definitions.

“Accessory Dwelling Unit” (ADU) means a self-contained dwelling unit located on an owner-

occupied property that is either incorporated within the single-family residence or in a detached

building (detached ADU) and is further defined by this chapter and by Utah State Code.

“Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit” (IADU) means an accessory dwelling unit created:

        A. within a primary dwelling;

        B. within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory dwelling

unit is created; and

        C. for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer.

“Owner Occupancy” means a property where the property owner, as reflected in title records,

makes his or her legal residence at the site, as evidenced by voter registration, vehicle registration,

driver's license, county assessor records or similar means.

“Primary Dwelling” means a single-family dwelling that is detached and is occupied as the primary

residence of the owner of record.

“Public Utility Easement” (PUE) means an area on a recorded plat map or other recorded document

that is dedicated to the use and installation of public utility facilities.

19.15.030 Allowed areas and zones.




                                                    2
   a. IADUs shall be a permitted use on single family home lots in areas zoned primarily for

       residential use with a lot area of 6,000 square feet or greater, including R zones, A zones,

       and the PC Zone. Detached ADUs are also permitted but may only be built on lots with an

       area of 12,000 square feet or greater, except that detached ADUs in a PC Zone are permitted

       on lots with a minimum area of 6,000 square feet if Magna has approved design standards

       for the same.

   b. In no case shall an ADU be permitted in a townhome, a multi-family PUD or other attached

       unit type, or on any lot that cannot satisfy parking, setback, or lot coverage requirements.

19.15.040 Number of residents.

ADUs shall not be occupied by more than 4 adults or 2 adults and their minior dependents.

19.15.050 Setbacks.

Setbacks on IADUs are the same as the setbacks for a single-family dwelling in the zone. Side

yard setbacks on detached ADUs will be consistent with setbacks for a single-family dwelling in

the zone. Rear yard setbacks on detached ADUs are a minimum of 10 feet. Detached ADUs must

also be a minimum of 6 feet from the main dwelling. For detached ADUs, if existing PUEs are

greater than the required setback, the minimum setback will be the PUE boundary.

19.15.060 Parking requirements.

In addition to the required parking for the existing home, the property owner must demonstrate

that one (1) on-site parking space is available for an IADU, and that two (2) on-site parking spaces

are available for a detached ADU. A property owner bears the burden of showing by a

preponderance of the evidence that sufficient parking is available. In cases where garage

conversions are done to create an IADU or detached ADU, replacement on-site parking spaces are




                                                 3
required for the primary dwelling in a number equal to the parking spaces eliminated by such

ADU.

19.15.070 Height requirements.

Detached ADUs shall be no taller than the existing home.

19.15.080 Lot coverage.

Lot coverage maximums as outlined per each zone. Any additions to an existing building or

construction of a detached ADU shall comply with Section 19.15.050 and except as provided in

that section, shall not exceed the allowable lot or rear yard coverage standard for the underlying

zone.

19.15.090 – Owner occupancy.

The principal unit or the ADU must have owner occupancy, except for medical, military service,

or religious reasons for a time period of up to 2 years. If an absence is warranted due to the above

reasons, an on-site manager shall be designated. The property owner may not receive rent for the

unit that was occupied by the owner. An application for an ADU shall include evidence of owner

occupancy.

19.15.100 – Number of ADUs per lot.

One ADU or IADU is permitted per lot.

19.15.110 – ADU design standards.

        A. An approved building permit is required for all ADUs before an ADU is constructed,

           and all other applicable provisions of this chapter and the Magna Metro Township Code

           must be met before an ADU can be rented. Existing non-compliant ADUs may come

           into compliance by receiving a permit and verifying existing work was done according

           to code.



                                                 4
B. A building permit may not issue for an ADU until the applicant has provided written

   confirmation from the applicable water supplier that the ADU complies with all

   applicable water service requirements.

C. The design and size of an ADU shall conform to all applicable building, fire, and health

   codes, including applicable water service requirements. The design and size of a

   detached ADU shall conform to these codes and any other applicable codes and a

   building permit.

D. Detached ADUs shall have a permanent foundation on which they are built. Detached

   ADUs are not allowed to be built on a foundation with a basement, on piers, or on any

   temporary or wheeled structure.

E. Conversions of an existing space to an ADU will require compliance with safety

   requirements per building code including, but not limited to, egress windows with

   window wells in case of emergency, and sufficient HVAC and climate control for the

   ADU.

F. IADUs will not require a separate HVAC or firewall.

G. Owner shall provide a separate address marking for emergency services and mailing

   services.

H. Detached ADUs shall not be located in a front or corner lot side yard.

I. Detached ADUs must be offset 10’ or more from the front façade of the main dwelling.

J. Any detached ADU shall have adequate facilities for all discharge from roof and other

   drainage.

K. Single family residences with a detached ADU shall retain the same appearance as a

   single-family residence.



                                         5
        L. An existing accessory building may be converted into an ADU provided that it meets

            the same ADU requirements in this chapter.

19.15.120: Affidavit and Notice of Accessory Dwelling Unit.

Applicants for ADUs shall provide an affidavit stating that the owner of the property will live in

either the primary dwelling or ADU as their permanent residence. Upon approval of the ADU by

the building official, and upon the issuance of a business license pursuant to Section 19.15.130, a

Notice of Accessory Dwelling Unit including the affidavit shall be recorded against the property

to provide notice to a future owner of the owner occupancy requirement for the ADU. Upon sale

of the property, the new owner shall be required to sign and record a new affidavit and secure

reauthorization of the ADU by the building and business license officials. A copy of the recorded

notice will be provided to the applicant when completed.

19.15.130: Business licensing.

Prior to renting out any ADU, a business license must be obtained. That license must be maintained

as long as the unit is rented out.

19.15.140: Retention of single-family residence status

        A. ADUs are part of a single-family residence and shall not be used as a multi-family

            residence.

        B. ADUs may not be separately metered apart from the single-family residence.

        C. ADUs may not be sold or subdivided separately from the single-family residence.

19.15.150: Short-term rental use prohibited.

Units approved as ADUs shall not be used as short-term rentals. Any rentals shall be made for 30

consecutive days or more.

19.15.160 Variances.



                                                6
The land use hearing officer may grant variances to the standards of this chapter in accordance

with section 19.92.040. The land use hearing officer may not grant a variance from Building Code

requirements, owner occupancy provisions, square footage requirements, or the number of units

allowed per lot.




       SECTION III.     This ordinance shall become effective fifteen days after its passage and

upon publication of the ordinance, or a summary thereof on the Utah state noticing website.




                                               7
