MAGNA
ORDINANCE 20-02-01
HOME DAYCARE/PRESCHOOL AMENDMENTS
AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL AMENDING
MAGNA MUNICIPAL CODE 19.04.293 TO CONFORM TO STATE HEALTH
DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSED HOME DAYCARE AND
PRESCHOOL LAND USE

WHEREAS, A. The Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) is a municipality pursuant to
Utah Code §§ 10-2a-401 et seq.

WHEREAS, B. The Magna Metro Township Council (the “Council”) is the municipal
legislative body for Magna pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-501.

WHEREAS, Given the demand for Licensed Home Daycare and Home Preschool, it is
important for Magna to have effective and efficient land use regulation that works with
caregivers pursuing licensing for their proposed home-based daycare and/or preschool.

WHEREAS, Upon review of Magna ordinance, state law, and Utah State Health
Department Regulations R430-50 and R430-90 that regulate licensed home daycare, it was
determined the existing ordinance was more restrictive, and conflicted with state law.

WHEREAS, The proposed amendments better conform Magna's regulation of land use
to state law and home daycare/preschool licensing.

NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Council of Magna, in the State of Utah, as
follows:

SECTION 1: AMENDMENT “19.04.293 Home Day Care/preschool” of the
Magna Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:

BEFORE AMENDMENT
19.04.293 Home Day Care/preschool
"Home day care/preschool" means the keeping for care and/or preschool instruction of twelve or
less children including the caregiver's own children under the age of six and not yet in full day
school within an occupied dwelling and yard. (State regulations require two caregivers if there
are more than six children in a home day care and may further limit the number of children
allowed in a home day care.) A home day care/preschool must meet the following standards:
Page: 1
SS ee ee

A. When allowed as a permitted use there shall be a maximum of six children without any
employees not residing in the dwelling. When allowed as a conditional use there shall be
a maximum of twelve children with not more than one employee at any one time not
residing in the dwelling;

B. The use shall comply with the health department noise regulations;

C. The play yard shall not be located in the front yard and shall only be used between eight
a.m. and nine p.m.;

D. The lot shall contain one available on-site parking space not required for use of the
dwelling, and an additional available on-site parking space not required for use of the
dwelling for any employee not residing in the dwelling. The location of the parking shall
be approved by the development services division director to insure that the parking is
functional and does not change the residential character of the lot;

E. No signs shall be allowed on the dwelling or lot except a nameplate sign;

F. The use shall comply with all local, state and federal laws and regulations. (The Life
Safety Code includes additional requirements if there are more than six children);

G. Upon complaint that any of the requirements of this section or any other county
ordinance are being violated by a home day care/preschool caregiver, the county shall
review the complaint and if substantiated may institute a license revocation proceeding
under Section 5.14.020; and

H. The caregiver shall notify in writing, on a form provided by the development services
division, all property owners within a three hundred foot radius of the caregiver's
property concerning the licensing of a home day care/ preschool at such property.

AFTER AMENDMENT
19.04.293 Home Day Care/preschool
"Home day care/preschool" means the keeping for care and/or preschool instruction of evelveor
tess children including the caregiver's own children under the age of six and not yet in full day
school within an occupied dwelling and yard. (State regulations require two caregivers if there
are more than six children in a home day care and may further limit the number of children
allowed in a home day care.) A home day care/ preschool must meet the following standards:

A. When allowed as a permitted use, there shall be-a-maximum-ofsix-children-withoutany
employees not residing inthe dwellingcaregiver and dwelling use regulations must
comply with Utah Health Department Regulation R430-50 et seq. When allowed as a
conditional use, there-shall be a-maximumroftwelve children-with net merethan-one
employee at any-onetime not residing inthe dwellingcaregiver and dwelling use
regulations must comply with Utah Health Department Regulation R430-90 et seq;

B. The use shall comply with the health department noise regulations;

C. The play yard shall not be located in the front yard and shall only be used between eight
a.m. and nine p.m.;

Page: 2
eee

D. The lot shall contain one available on-site parking space not required for use of the
dwelling, and an additional available on-site parking space not required for use of the
dwelling for any employee not residing in the dwelling. The location of the parking shall
be approved by the development services division director to insure that the parking is
functional and does not change the residential character of the lot;

E. No signs shall be allowed on the dwelling or lot except a nameplate sign;

F. The use shall comply with all local, state and federal laws and regulations. (The Life
Safety Code includes additional requirements if there are more than six children);

G. Upon complaint that any of the requirements of this section or any other
countymunicipal ordinance are being violated by a home day care/preschool caregiver,
the eountymunicipality shall review the complaint and if substantiated may institute a
license revocation proceeding under Section 5.14.020; and

H. The caregiver shall notify in writing, on a form provided by the development services
division, all property owners within a three hundred foot radius of the caregiver's

property concerning the licensing of a home day care/preschool at such property.
SECTION 2: EFFECTIVE DATE This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect
from a and after the required approval and publication according to law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE MAGNA COUNCIL erates eee
. AYE NAY ABSENT ABSTAIN
Council Member Hull iv
Mayor Peay VY
Council Member Peel Pad)
Council Member Pierce
Council Member Prokopis VAG,
Presiding Officer Attest
an W. Peay, Mayor, Ma ; Sherrie Swensen, County Clerk/
Metro Township Clerk-Recorder
Magna
APPROVAL AS TO FORM:
Paul H. Lh Attorney
Page: 3
ee ae ee
