ORDINANCE NO.: 21-02-01 pare frtaey 2p “haz /
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
AN ORDINANCE MODIFYING CHAPTER 19.69 — PLANNED COMMUNITY (P-C)
ZONE FOR THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP CODE OF ORDINANCES
RECITALS
WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) adopted Ordinance No. 18-01-02 on
January 9, 2018, creating Chapter 19.69 - Planned Community (P-C) zone for the Magna Metro Township
Code of Ordinances; and
WHEREAS, Chapter 19.69 presently restricts the use of the P-C zone to master-planned
developments of no fewer than 200 acres; and
WHEREAS, Magna is actively updating and revising its ordinances, including zoning, to better
account for the health, welfare, and benefits to its residents; and
WHEREAS, Magna has determined that the P-C zone may be suitable for planned communities of
a smaller scale while maintaining the benefits to the community of planned development.
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
AS FOLLOWS:
1. 19.69.040 shall be amended to read:
19.69.040 — P-C zone area — minimum requirements.
Each P-C Zone shall contain a minimum of 75 acres located in Magna as depicted on the Magna Land
Use Plan on file with Planning and Development Services. If the P-C Zone contains multiple owners,
the owners may, if necessary, to reach the 75 acre threshold, or if such owners otherwise desire,
combine their properties for planning and development purposes.
2. 19.69.50 shall be amended to read:
19.69.50— Permitted uses.
A, The following uses may be conducted in all areas within a P-C Zone of more than 200
acres:
i. Residential uses of all types on a range of lot sizes including: single family detached:
single family attached; multifamily residential: town homes; loft apartments;
1
ee

residential units above ground floor retail, commercial, or office uses; and
condominiums;

il. Retail, service, office, hotel, restaurant, entertainment, and all other commercial uses
of any type; Mix of permitted uses (including office/commercial, Office/residential,
retail/residential) within individual structures;

ili. Home-based businesses following the provisions of Chapter 19.85 of this Title;

iv. Health-care facilities;

v. Public facilities, such as schools, libraries, and civic buildings; Common areas, such

as plazas, playgrounds, and trails Churches;

vi. Day-care facilities;

vil. Open space, including landscaped areas and areas in natural vegetation, golf courses,
parks,

viii. recreational areas;

ix. Industrial and manufacturing uses; and

x. Other accessory uses which are ancillary to, and designed to serve, any of the

foregoing uses.
B. The following uses may be conducted in all areas within a P-C Zone containing at least
75 and fewer than 200 acres:

i. Residential uses of all types on a range of lot sizes including: single family detached;
single family attached; multifamily residential; town homes; loft apartments;
residential units above ground floor retail, commercial, or Office uses; and
condominiums;

xi. Retail, service, office, hotel, restaurant, entertainment, and all other commercial uses
of any type; Mix of permitted uses (including office/commercial, Office/residential,
retail/residential) within individual structures;

xti. Home-based businesses following the provisions of Chapter 19.85 of this Title;
xiii. Health-care facilities;
b. Public facilities, such as schools, libraries, and civic buildings; Common areas, such as plazas,
playgrounds, and trails Churches;

c. Day-care facilities;

d. Open space, including landscaped areas and areas in natural vegetation, golf courses, parks,
e. recreational areas; and

2
litres

f Other accessory uses which are ancillary to, and designed to serve, any of the foregoing uses.
3. 19.69.60 shall be amended to read:
19.69.60 - Conditional uses.
dL If a proposed P-C Zone Plan includes specific land uses identified as conditional uses within a
given district, those conditional uses in the P-C Zone Plan must be expressly approved by the Metro
Township Council in a development agreement with the applicant(s). The Metro Ti ownship Council’s
approval of conditional uses in a development agreement does not establish any entitlement for
approval of a conditional use and is an additional requirement for approval of a P-C Zone Plan
including any conditional use(s). All conditional uses in any P-C Zone require separate review and
approval as set forth in Chapter 19.84 of this Title. Design standards for conditional uses shall be
included with the applicable Project Specific Standards.
2 Within a P-C Zone Plan or Community Structure Plan of, Properties containing at least 75 acres,
but fewer than 200 acres, industrial and manufacturing uses may be allowed as conditional uSseS,
subject to planning commission and council approval.
4. This ordinance will become effective 20 days after publication pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-
711(1) and Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-712.
[signatures on following page]
3
eee eeeeseses—‘__S

APPROVED and ADOPTED this i day of 7 6 hes ry , 2021.
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
By: ( VY,
Dan Peay, Mayor
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
VOTING
Council Member Steve Prokopis voting Ait. A “
Council Member Brint Peel voting MG ‘%
Mayor Dan Peay voting “AY d
Council Member Trish Hull voting PAVE A
Council Member Audrey Pierce voting “Af pit
(Complete as Applicable)
Summary of ordinance published in newspaper:
Date of publication:
eee
Effective date of ordinance:
4
Se a ee

SUMMARY OF
[TSNAME] METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. Z/ ~ OL af /

On the2J“Gay of Feb fVie-Y _, 2021, the Magna Metro Township Council adopted
Ordinance No. Ay Qe-b, “4 , revising Chapter 19.69 of the Magna Metro Township Code to modify
the acreage requirements for use of the P-C zone and other changes conforming to state law.

MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
Dan Peay, Mayor es
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
missnetbosswrenseny Clete METRO le ATTORNEY
VOTING
yp i
Council Member Steve Prokopis voting AVE
Council Member Brint Peel voting Age
Mayor Dan Peay voting AYE ~
Council Member Trish Hull voting VAL 6 le
Council Member Audrey Pierce voting Wa *
A complete copy of Ordinance No. Z/)-~42-Z/ is available in the office of the Magna Metro
Township Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.
4818-9117-4105, v. 4
5
eee
