MAGNA CITY, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-0-18
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING POLICY AND REQUIREMENTS FOR
SOLICITATION OF FUNDS OR WAIVER OF FEES BY THIRD PARTIES OR
ORGANIZATIONS FROM MAGNA CITY

WHEREAS, Magna City ("Magna") is a municipality incorporated under the laws of the
State of Utah pursuant to Utah Code § 10-1-104(5)(c); and

WHEREAS, Magna is governed by and elected Council (Council) responsible for public
funds used to meet the needs of Magna; and

WHEREAS, the Council recognizes the importance of supporting charitable, educational,
and other nonprofit entities that benefit the well-being of Magna's residents; and

WHEREAS, Magna has previously adopted policies and procedures for paying of
contributions to qualifying entities for activities that benefit the residents of Magna as well policies
and procedures with regard to waiving of various fees owed by entities or individuals for activities
and gatherings within Magna, which activities and gatherings benefit Magna; and

WHEREAS, the Council now desires to codifies such policies and procedures as Chapter
3.91 in the Magna City Code of Ordinance.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL AS
FOLLOWS:

1. The Magna City Council adopts Chapter 3.91 of the Magna City Municipal Code
as outlined in Attachment “A”.

2. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication on the Magna City and Utah State
Public Notice Website.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Magna City Council, this 10" day of December 2024.

[Execution on Following Page]

MAGNA , UNCIL:
| |
LAAd Ze CU MAL
ERIC BARNEY, MAYOR
ATTEST:
2 Wiha Ky. Wa8ZLZ, APPROVED AS TO FORM:
RECORDER (}
VOTING . PAUL H. ASHTON
Mayor Barney voting Ae’ CITY ATTORNEY
Council Member Pierce voting Auge,
Council Member Hull voting E GA
Council Member Sudbury voting DB
Council Member Prokopis voting
(

SUMMARY OF
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-0-18
On the 10th day of December 2024, the Magna City Council adopted Ordinance No. 2024-

O-18, adopting Chapter 3.91 of the Magna City Municipal code regarding Establishing Policy and
Requirements for Solicitation of Funds or Waiver of Fees by Third Parties or Organizations from
Magna City.
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2024-O-18 is available in the office of the Greater Salt Lake
Municipal Services District, 2001 South State Street, N3-600, Salt Lake City, Utah.

(Complete as Applicable)

Date ordinance summary was Pao to the Utah Public Notice website per Utah Code

§10-3-711:_Deremper \\, 700

Effective date of ordinance: ‘])f¢ PIM\en \0, ory

“ATTACHMENT A”
Chapter 3.91 — Policy and Requirements for Solicitation of Funds or Waiver of Fees by Third
Parties or Organizations from Magna City
3.91.010 Policy
3.91.020 Additional Definitions
3.91.030 Contributions and Waivers
3.91.040 Additional Requirements for Contributions or Waiver of Fees
3.91.050 Requests for Use or Transfer of Surplus Property
3.91.060 Legal Review
3.91.010 — Policy.

The policy of this ordinance is to ensure that public funds are used to support legitimate
public purposes including, but not limited to, supporting charitable, educational, or other nonprofit
entities (hereafter "Third Parties") that benefit the well-being of Magna City's residents. Further,
to set in place the requirements by which solicitation of public funds or waiver of fees by such
Third Parties shall be made to and, where appropriate, approved by the Magna City Council
(hereafter "Council").

The providing of public funds to Third Parties shall not render Magna City, its employees,
officers, Council or agents as becoming employees, officers, or agents of the Third Party.
2.91.020 — Additional Definitions
The following additional definitions will be used when referenced hereafter:

"Annual Recertification" - The official document filed annually by requesting organizations when
those organizations have previously been approved and have been included in regular budget
appropriations by the Council.

"Application Form" - The official document, with noted attachments, that serves as a request for
contribution of funds, waiver of fees, use of buildings, property, equipment, personnel services,
etc.

"Budget" - The annual budget for Magna, funding all Magna programs based on a fiscal year.
"Contribution" - Any donation of public funds or resources in the form of cash, services, or
property.

"Council"- Magna City Council.

"Disbursement of Funds Report" - An official report from any receiving agency briefly detailing
how the contribution was used.

"Mayor " — Magna City Mayor.

"Nonprofit Organization" - Any benevolent, artistic, educational, philanthropic, humane, patriotic,
social welfare, public health, environmental conservation, civic, or other similar organization
which is entitled to tax exempt status under the laws of either the United States or the State of
Utah.

"Public funds" and "public monies" means money and other funds and accounts, regardless of the
source from which these funds and accounts are derived, which are owned, held or administered
by Magna City, its employees, or agents such as the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
("MSD") and any of its offices, departments, divisions, agencies or other similar instrumentalities.
"Public monies" also includes monies, funds or accounts that have been transferred to a private
contract provider of programs or services. Those monies, funds or accounts maintain the nature of
public monies while in the possession of the private entity that has contracted with the county to
provide programs or services.

"Public Purpose" — Magna’s government's authority or responsibility to promote the safety, health,
prosperity, moral well-being, peace, order, comfort, or convenience of Magna’s inhabitants.
2.91.030 — Contributions and Waivers

(A) All contributions made by Magna must be made to help advance a bona fide public purpose.
(B) Contributions may be made by the Council appropriating funds through either the budget or
a separate appropriation in a previously approved budget category. Contribution requests may also
be directed to the Mayor for review and recommendation to the Council.

(C) Any request which involves a waiver of fees relating to a special event shall be submitted to
the Mayor for recommendation to the Council .

(D) No contributions or waivers will be made to any organization which stands to gain
commercially as a whole or individually.

(E) All requests for contribution or waiver of fees must be made on official application forms
available from Magna, which forms shall have been approved by the Council, and shall be
submitted according to the guidelines and deadlines established by the Council. Questions may
be directed to the City Manager for Magna.

(F) Unless good cause is shown, all Third Party requestors should be a nonprofit organization in
good standing with the State of Utah, with adequate insurance to protect Magna from claims that
might arise from activities for which the Public Funds are contributed or fees waived.

(G) All Third Parties receiving contributions are required to submit a "Disbursement of Funds
Report" on or before January 31st of the year following the calendar year of contribution. These
reports are to be submitted to the City Manager who shall provide copies to the Mayor and Council.
Any failure to submit the report on a timely basis may subject the Third Party to potential legal
action for recovery of the contributed amounts.

(H) All contributions must be approved by the Council.

(1) For any Third Party organization which the Council determines to be worthy of on-going annual
contributions to be included in Magna’s annual budgeting process, the initial request for a
contribution shall be submitted by the Third Party organization in accordance with the terms of
this ordinance. For each year thereafter when the Council determines to include that Third Party

organization’s request in the Magna budget, the requesting Third Party organization shall file an
annual recertification notice which sets out that the nature of the organization and that the services
contemplated have not changed from the original request of that organization before any funds
may be disbursed.

(J) Payment of authorized contributions will be made by the Council upon receipt of either budget
documents establishing that the contribution has been authorized, as to both amount and recipient,
in the duly adopted budget or any amendment thereof or evidence that the Council has separately
approved the contribution. As appropriate, approval will be accompanied by an agreement
documenting the contribution amount and the uses for which it is authorized.

2.91.040 Additional Requirements for Contributions or Waiver of Fees

Third Party organizations applying for contributions from Magna City agree to the following
requirements:

(A) Financial Oversight:- The applicant shall allow Magna, or designee retained by Magna, to
inspect the applicants accounts and accounting systems to ensured proper use and safeguarding of
Public Funds.

(B) Annual Financial Reporting: The applicant shall provide annual financial reports in a format
acceptable to Magna. The report shall demonstrate how Public Funds were used and outcomes
achieved.

(C) Advancement of Magna Goals: The applicant shall explain how the requested contribution
will advance Magna City's goals or plans or benefit Magna City residents. Applicant will track
and report progress toward advancing such goals or providing of such benefits.

(D) Use of Magna Contributions: The applicant commits to only use and monetary or non-
monetary assistance provided by Magna for the purposes outlined in the applications and any
approval documentation.

(E) Qualifications: The applicant can demonstrate that it possesses the necessary training,
experience and resources to accomplish the purposes set forth in the application.

2.91.050 Requests for Use or Transfer of Surplus Property

All requests for the use or transfer of surplus property will be handled pursuant to State law.
2.91.060 Legal Review

When a matter has been reviewed by either the Council or Mayor, and approved by the Council in
accordance with the provisions of this ordinance and state law, further legal approval is not
required unless a separate contract is prepared.
