                                  MAGNA CITY
                             ORDINANCE NO. 2024-O-17

       Ordinance No. 2024-O-17                        Date: December 10, 2024

AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAGNA COUNCIL AMENDING TITLE 19 TO
REPLACE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP WITH MAGNA OR MAGNA CITY, AS
APPROPRIATE; CLARIFYING WHEN INFRASTRUCTURE AND PUBLIC
IMPROVEMENTS MUST BE INSTALLED BY A DEVELOPER SUBJECT TO
THE LIMITATIONS ON EXACTIONS IN UTAH CODE; CLARIFYING THAT
INTERNAL AND ATTACHED DWELLING UNITS MAY ONLY BE
CONSTRUCTED ON SINGLE FAMILY LOTS WITH 6,000 SQUARE FEET OR
GREATER; AMENDING THE DEFINITION OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
AND CLARIFYING THE CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH COMMERCIAL
VEHICLES MAY BE PARKED IN R-1 AND R-2 ZONES; CLARIFYING 1 ACRE
MINIMUM FOR NEW DEVELOPMENT IN THE A-1 ZONE; CLARIFYING
THAT A LOT MUST INCLUDE 20,000 SQUARE FEET TO HAVE "ANIMAL
RIGHTS"; REQUIRING AN "ALL WEATHER SURFACE" IN STORAGE AND
SALVAGE YARDS; REQUIRING TREES AND LANDSCAPING TO BE
TRIMMED TO 14.5" ABOVE THE STREET; AND ADDING OR CLARIFYING
DEFINITIONS FOR "OFF PREMISE SIGNS", "ANIMAL RIGHTS",
"ALTERATION", "CLUSTERING", "EXPANSION", "GRADING", “NATURAL
OPEN SPACE", "NET DEVELOPABLE ACREAGE", "RETAINING WALL",
"SITE PLAN", "SLOPE", "STREAM, “EPHEMERAL", "STREAM”,
PERENNIAL", "STREAM CORRIDOR", "SUBSTANTIAL ECONOMIC
HARDSHIP", "UNDEVELOPABLE", AND "WAIVER"


                                     RECITALS
       WHEREAS, Magna is a municipality and has authority to adopt land use
regulations, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-9a-501 in accordance with the Municipal Land
Use, Development, and Management Act, Title 10, Section 9a, Utah Code; and
      WHEREAS, infrastructure and public improvements should be installed by a
developer subject to the limitations on Exactions in Utah Code;
        WHEREAS, the legislative intent in adopting an ADU ordinance was that lots with
less than 6,000 square feet would not be allowed to build ADU’s;
       WHEREAS, the parking of commercial vehicles in residential areas is not
desirable, but is acceptable in limited circumstances;
        WHEREAS, the 1 acre lot area requirement in the A-1 zone needed to be clarified
to reflect the legislative intent;
      WHEREAS, animal rights were never intended to be allowed on lots with less than
20,000 square feet;
       WHEREAS, an "all weather surface" is necessary to ensure adequate storm water
pollution prevention in Storage and Salvage Yards;
      WHEREAS, commercial vehicles can often exceed 13.5’ in height, but rarely
exceed 14.5’ in height;
       WHEREAS, clear definitions of the words and phrases used in titles 18 and 19 are
essential to administering those titles;
       WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to amend its land use ordinances for
the protection and preservation of the public health, safety and general welfare;
       WHEREAS, the Magna Planning Commission held a public hearing on November
12 , 2024 to consider amending Title 19 as set forth in Exhibits A through I (the “Proposed
     th

Action”) in accordance with Utah Code §§ 10-9a-205and 10-9a-502; and
        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has recommended that the Council amend
its land use ordinances set forth in Exhibits A through I for the protection and preservation
of the public health, safety and general welfare.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL as follows:
1.        Chapter 19.04 Definitions, is hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

2.        To replace Magna Metro Township with Magna City, the following chapters
          sections and subsections are hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit B:
          Section 19.02.010 Title; Section 19.02.20 Organization; Section 19.02.030
          Purpose; Section 19.02.040 Applicability; Section 19.10.010 Findings and
          Purpose; Subsection 19.10.030(D) Conduct of the Hearing; Chapter 19.14 Zones,
          Zoning Map and Boundaries; Section 19.30.020 Establishment of Medium and
          High-Density Residential Zones; Section 19.34.020 Establishment of
          Manufacturing Zones; Section 19.42.030 Accessory Dwelling Unit; Section
          19.56.010 Authorization and Findings; 19.56.040 General Provisions; Section
          19.56.060 Permit Procedures; Subsection 19.58.080 (C)(4) Enclosures below the
          BFE; Section 19.58.010 Purpose of Provisions; Section 19.58.020 Definitions;
          Section 19.58.030 Applicability; Section 19.58.070 Review of Reports-Approval
          Procedure; Section 19.58.091 Disclosure When a Geographical Hazards Report is
          Required; Section 19.58.100 Warning and Disclaimer; Section 19.58.120
          Conflicting Regulations; 19.69.060 Conditional Uses; Section 19.69.090
          Community Structure Plan (CSP; and Section 19.69.100 Project Plan/Subdivision
          Plat.
3.    Section 19.46.120 Infrastructure and Public Improvements, is hereby revised to
      read as set forth in Exhibit C.
4.    Subsections 19.42.030(A) and 19.42.030(B), are hereby revised to read as set forth
      in Exhibit D.
5.    Subsection 19.48.040(E) Commercial Vehicles, is hereby revised to read as set
      forth in Exhibit E.

6.    Section 19.26.050 Lot Area, Lot Width, Lot Coverage is hereby revised to read as
      set forth in Exhibit F.
7.    Section 19.42.060 Animal Rights, is hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit
      G.

8.    Section 19.42.320 Storage and Salvage Yards, is hereby revised to read as set forth
      in Exhibit H.

9.    Section 19.50.200 Tree and Landscape Trimming, is hereby revised to read as set
      forth in Exhibit I.

10.   Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
      Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or
      specific application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which
      shall continue in full force and effect.

11.   Direction to Staff. Staff are authorized and directed to take such steps as may be
      needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law, including but not
      limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711; and (b) to
      finalize and post the ordinance to Municode, including but not limited to making
      non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.
12.   Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting pursuant
      to Utah Code § 10-3-712.


This Ordinance is effective upon posting as required by law.


                                                       [Execution on following page]
ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the Magna City Council on
this 10th day of December 2024.
MAGNA CITY COUNCIL



By: Eric J Barney, Mayor

ATTEST                                                  APPROVED AS TO FORM:

__________________________                              _________________________
Nicole Smedley, Recorder                                Paul Ashton, City Attorney



Voting:
Council Member Barney             voting          ___
Council Member Prokopis           voting          ___
Council Member Hull               voting          ___
Council Member Pierce             voting          ___
Council Member Sudbury            voting          ___


  (Complete as Applicable)
  Date ordinance summary was published to the Utah Public Notice website per Utah Code
  §10-3-711: ________________________
  Effective date of ordinance: ________________
                                          EXHIBIT A

                                 Chapter 19.04 DEFINITIONS
19.04.010 Definitions and Interpretation of Language.
For the purpose of Titles 18 and 19 of the Magna Municipal Code, certain words and terms are
defined as set out in this Chapter. Words used in the present tense include the future; words in
the singular number include the plural and the plural the singular, and words included herein but
defined in the building code shall be construed as defined therein.
19.04.020 General Definitions.

A. General terms used in Title 19 are defined as follows:

   1. "Affected Entity" means a county, municipality, local district, special service district under
      Title 17D, Chapter 1, Special Service District Act, school district, interlocal cooperation
      entity established under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, specified public
      utility, property owner, property owners association, or the Utah Department of
      Transportation, if:

       a. The entity's services or facilities are likely to require expansion or significant
          modification because of an intended use of land;

       b. The entity has filed with the municipality a copy of the entity's general or long-range
          plan; or

       c. The entity has filed with the municipality a request for notice during the same calendar
          year and before the municipality provides notice to an affected entity in compliance
          with a requirement imposed under this Ordinance or Utah Code.

   2. “Affected Area” means the parcel or parcels that are the subject of a land use application,
      subdivision application, or rezone. The affected area is the minimum extent to which public
      notice must be given. Additional notice must also be given as required by Magna Municipal
      Code, Utah Code, or federal law.

   3. “Agent” means a person with written authorization to represent a property owner or
      applicant.

   4. "Alteration" means any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an existing
      structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, or interior partitions, or any
      change in the dimensions or configurations of the roof or exterior walls.

   5. "Animal Rights" means the keeping of livestock and fowl on lots and parcels containing at
      least twenty thousand (20,000) square feet. The keeping of livestock and fowl is limited to
      one animal unit and their seasonal offspring for each ten thousand square feet (10,000
      sq. ft.). Household pets are not subject to these limits. The residential keeping of chickens
      and ducks is subject to Chapter 19.42.

   6. “Animal Unit” means a proportionate combination of the following:
   a. One (1) cow, or one (1) horse, or one (1) pig, or one (1) llama, or one (1) other similar
      large animal.

   b. Four (4) adult sheep or feeder lambs, or two (2) alpacas (similar to llama).

   c. Two (2) goats.

   d. Ten (10) chickens, or ten (10) ducks, or ten (10) pigeons, or ten (10) similar small fowl,
      subject to the standards and requirements of this Title, Salt Lake County Animal
      Services, and Salt Lake County Health Department that ensure that domesticated fowl
      do not adversely impact the neighborhood surrounding the property on which the
      domestic fowl are kept. For regulations regarding the keeping of chickens and ducks,
      see Chapter 19.42.

   e. Twelve (12) rabbits, or twelve (12) similar small animals.

   f.   Two (2) large birds such as ostriches, emus, or peacocks.

   g. Four (4) turkeys.

   h. The total animal units located on a given parcel or animal operation shall be
      determined by adding the animal units for each animal type. For the purpose of
      determining compliance, said definition does not include the unweaned offspring of
      any residing animal which is less than six (6) months in age.

7. “Appeal Authority” means the same as “Land Use Hearing Officer.”

8. “Applicant” means the person who makes formal application for a license, permit,
   subdivision or submits any application pursuant to Titles 18 or 19 Of the Magna Municipal
   Code.

9. "Benchmark" means a mark affixed to a permanent or semi-permanent object along a line
   of survey to furnish a datum level.

10. “Boundary Line Agreement” means an agreement to establish the location of a boundary
    between adjoining properties if the location of the boundary is ambiguous, uncertain, or
    disputed.

11. “Buffer, Riparian” means an area along the course of any watercourse or roadway or
    boundary line to be maintained without the disturbance of buildings or structures other
    than fencing, if allowed.

12. “Business Day” means a day in which normal business operations are conducted.
   Saturdays, Sundays, Holidays and days Planning and Development Services are not open
   are not considered business days.

13. "Clustering" means a development or subdivision design technique that concentrates
    buildings or lots on a part of the site to allow the remaining land to be used for recreation,
    common open space, and/or preservation of environmentally sensitive areas.
14. “Concept Plat / Drawing” means a drawing that shows the overall concept of a proposed
    development, as further defined in these regulations.

15. "Conditional Use" means a land use that has unique characteristics or negative effects
    that may not be compatible in an area without conditions to mitigate or eliminate the
    detrimental impacts. A land use listed as a conditional use is a use of land for which a
    conditional use permit is required pursuant to this Title.

16. “Conservation Easement” means an easement that perpetually prohibits further
   development or use inconsistent with, or harmful to, the enhancement, preservation, and
   protection of a defined area for the benefit of fish, wildlife, plants, or other similar
   ecosystems, or preserves such areas predominantly in their natural scenic or open
   condition; but which may, in the sole discretion of the conservation easement holder,
   permit recreational and/or agricultural uses which do not involve significant alteration or
   development of the restricted area in a manner which is inconsistent with, or harmful to,
   the preservation and protection of the restricted area.

17. "Council" means the Magna City Council, unless otherwise clearly indicated. The Magna
    City Council may also be referred to as the Magna Council or municipal council.

18. “Culinary Water Authority” means the department, agency, or public entity with the
   responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water system and
   sources for the subject property.

19. "Development" means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
    including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
    paving, excavation or drilling operations.

20. “Development Code” means Titles 18 and 19 of the Magna Municipal Code.

21. “Development Review Committee (DRC)” means Planning and Development Services
    Staff, in consultation with agencies contracted with the municipality for engineering, health,
    fire, and surveying reviews and services. Comments from other affected entities, service
    providers or other reviewing agencies may also be solicited as needed.

22. "Director" means the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Director of Planning
    and Development Services, unless otherwise clearly indicated.

23. “Drive Approach” means an area of the public right-of-way located between the roadway
    and property adjacent to the public right-of-way that is intended to provide access for
    vehicles from the roadway to the adjacent property.
24. “Driveway” means a path of ingress and egress constructed within and adjoining a
    roadway, connecting the roadway with adjacent or nearby property in accordance with
    Magna Municipal Code. A “driveway” is an unobstructed access from a public or private
    right of way to an adjacent or nearby property that does not interfere with vehicular or
    pedestrian travel within the right of way.
25. “Driveway, Cross Access” means a service drive providing vehicular access between two
    or more contiguous sites, so the driver need not enter the public street system.
26. "Driveway, Multifamily" means a driveway providing access to more than four dwelling
    units.
27. “Driveway, Private” means a driveway limited to the use of the owner or a group of owners
    who share the use and maintain the access and those having express or implied
    permission from the owner or owners, but not by other persons.
28. “Driveway, Shared” means a driveway serving more than one lot.

29. "Dwelling" means any building or structure, or portion thereof, intended for residential use.

30. “Dwelling, Primary” means a single-family dwelling that:

   a. Is detached;

   b. Is occupied as the primary residence of the owner of record; and

   c. “Dwelling, Primary” includes a garage if the garage:

       i.   Is a habitable space; and

       ii. Is connected to the primary dwelling by a common wall.

31. "Dwelling Unit" means one or more rooms physically arranged so as to create an
   independent housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family with separate
   toilets and facilities for cooking and sleeping. Buildings with more than one (1) kitchen or
   set of cooking facilities are considered to contain more than one (1) dwelling unit unless
   the additional cooking facilities are clearly accessory to a dwelling unit as determined by
   the development services director. Factors for determining whether cooking facilities are
   accessory to a dwelling unit may include but are not limited to:

   a. A building design which allows all occupants ready access to all portions of the building
      including cooking facilities;

   b. No portion of the building containing cooking facilities may be separated from the
      remaining rooms to form a separate dwelling unit; and

   c. There is only one (1) electric and/or gas meter for the building.

32. "Easement" means the quantity of land set aside or over which a liberty, privilege or
    advantage in land without profit, existing distinct from the ownership of the land, is granted
    to the public or some particular person or part of the public.

33. "Expansion" means an increase in the size of an existing structure or use, including
    physical size of the property, building, parking, and other improvements.

34. "Facility Company" means a company not regulated by the public service commission that
    provides a service including but not limited to cable television or telecommunications.
35. “Family” means one of the following groups of individuals, but not more than one group at
    the same time:

   a. An individual living alone; or

   b. Two (2) or more people, all of whom are related to one designated occupant of the
      dwelling by blood, marriage, adoption, or legal guardianship and their foster children,
      and up to two (2) other unrelated persons who do not pay rent; or

   c. Up to four (4) related or unrelated individuals who live and cook together as a single
      housekeeping unit; or

   d. Two (2) unrelated individuals and any children of either of them living as a single
      housekeeping unit.

36. "Good Cause" means incapacitating illness; death; lack of proper notice; unavailability due
    to unavoidable, unpreventable, or extenuating emergency or circumstance; if a required
    act causes an imminent and irreparable injury; or acts of nature adverse to performing
    required acts.

37. "Grading" means any change of existing surface conditions by excavating, placing of any
    soils or rocks, or stripping of vegetation.

38. "Graffiti" means inscriptions, drawings, paintings, or other visual defacing of buildings,
    structures, or natural features, without the consent of the owner thereof, and which is not
    otherwise authorized and permitted in municipal ordinances.

39. “Guest” means a person paying for staying or receiving services at a bed and breakfast,
    hotel, motel, resort, or similar facility.

40. "Guestroom" means a room that is designed for double occupancy by guests, for sleeping
    purposes.

41. “Hard surface” means any asphalt or concrete surface of an approved thickness, or other
    approved surface, but excluding rock, gravel, grass, or dirt.
42. “Health Department” means the Health Department of Salt Lake County, Utah.
43. “Inoperable Vehicle” means a vehicle that is not currently registered or licensed in the
    State of Utah or in another state, or which has been dismantled or wrecked to the point of
    being non-drivable.
44. “Land Trust” means a private non-stock, non-profit corporation that has as its purpose the
    preservation.
45. “Land Use Application” means an application required by the zoning or subdivision
   ordinances.
46. “Land Use Authority” means the person, board, commission, agency, or other body
   designated by the Magna Municipal Council to act upon a land use application.
47. “Land Use Decision” means any final decision of the Council, Planning Commission, or
    final administrative decision of the Director or other official responsible for the enforcement
    of zoning and subdivision regulations.
48. “Land Use Hearing Officer” means the “Appeal Authority” created pursuant to Utah Code
    § 10-9a.701 to hear appeals to zoning decisions applying to the zoning ordinance as
    provided in Section 19.16.020 and for decisions by the Planning Commission. The Land
    Use Hearing Officer is also the appeal authority for subdivision appeals subject to Section
    18.08.040 of the Magna Municipal Code. The Land Use Hearing Officer is also charged
    with the powers and duties enumerated in Section 19.12.040.C
49. “Legal Lot of Record” means any land parcel that existed, as recorded in the Office of the
    Salt Lake County Recorder, with a separate property identification number as provided by
    the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder and Office of the Salt Lake County Assessor,
    prior to December 17, 1952, and all land parcels that were legally created for the purposes
    of development pursuant to the applicable zoning and subdivision requirements and the
    laws of the State of Utah after the date of the first Subdivision Ordinance enactment.
50. “Local Jurisdiction” means the municipality, or other political subdivision adopting this
    Ordinance.
51. “Membrane Covered Frame Structure” means a non-pressurized building wherein the
    structure is composed of a rigid framework to support a tensioned membrane that provides
    the weather barrier.
52. “Minor Local Street” means a street, existing or proposed, often of limited continuity, the
    primary purpose of which is to provide access to property and serve the local needs of a
    neighborhood. A minor local street carries low volumes of traffic at the lowest speed limits.
53. “Monument” means a permanent survey marker established by the Salt Lake County
    Surveyor and/or a survey marker set in accordance with the Salt Lake County Surveyor’s
    specifications and referenced to Salt Lake County survey monuments.
54. "Municipal Engineering Division" means the division or personnel hired by or contracted
    with the municipality to provide engineering services. The “Municipal Engineering Division”
    is also referred to as the “Municipal Engineer” or “Municipal Engineering”.
55. "Municipal Flood Control Division" means the division or personnel hired by or contracted
    with the municipality to provide flood control and water quality services.
56. “Municipal Geologist” means the personnel hired by or contracted with the municipality to
    provide geologic hazard review and geology services.
57. “Natural Condition” means the topography and vegetation of the area that is unaltered by
    clearing and grading during construction and protected in perpetuity.
58. "Net developable acreage" is defined as land with all of the following:
   a. An average slope less than thirty percent; and
   b. Free from any identified natural hazards such as flood, avalanche, landslide, high
      water table and similar features. See Chapter 19.56 (Floodplain Hazard Regulations)
      and Chapter 19.58 (Geological Hazard Regulations).
59. "Noncomplying Structure" means a building or other structure or portion thereof lawfully
    constructed in compliance with the zoning ordinance existing at the time of construction,
    that no longer conforms to the height, area, and/or yard regulations in the zone in which it
    is located due to changes to the zoning ordinance or to the subsequent public acquisition
    of land for public improvements. A “Noncomplying Structure may also be referred to as a
    “Nonconforming Structure.”
60. "Nonconforming Use" means a use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the time
    the ordinance codified in this Title became effective and which does not conform with the
    use regulations of the zone in which it is located.
61. “Nonconforming Lot” means a legally established lot or parcel that met the applicable area,
    width and other applicable requirements in effect at the time the lot or parcel was created,
    but which fails by reason of such adoption, revision or amendment of the zoning
    ordinance, to conform to the present requirements of the zone in which it is located.
62. "Owner" includes the plural as well as the singular, and may mean either a natural person,
    firm, association, partnership, private corporation, public or quasi-public corporation, or
    any combination thereof having a majority fee simple interest in real property, or a majority
    interest through any other form of ownership.
63. "Parcel of Land" means a contiguous quantity of land, in the possession of, or owned by,
    or recorded as the property of, the same claimant or person.
64. “Pavement” includes the paved portion of a street, including paved shoulders and on street
    parking areas. “Pavement does not include curbs, gutters, park strips, sidewalks, trails,
    and driveways.
65. “Paved” means ground covered with stone, brick, concrete, asphalt, or other approved
    surface, installed over a compacted base course, making a permanent surface that is firm,
    smooth, and level. A graded natural surface, or one covered with rolled stone or overlaid
    with compacted or loose gravel is not considered a paved surface.
66. “Permitted Use” means any use allowed in a zone and subject to the restrictions applicable
    to that zone.
67. “Planning and Development Services” means the Planning and Development Services
    Department of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District. “Planning and
    Development Services” may also be referred to as the Planning and Development
    Services Department.
68. "Planning Commission" means the Magna Planning Commission.
69. “Portable Storage Container” means a transportable, weather-resistant, commercially
    leased or rented storage structure or container that is designed and used primarily for the
    storage of goods, items, and materials placed outside of the primary structure on a
    property. Portable Storage Container includes CONEX and other Shipping Containers.
   Portable Storage Container does not include yard waste containers, construction debris
   containers, or containers with a storage capacity less than two-hundred (200) cubic feet.
70. “Pre-Existing Lot” means a lot that was created prior to the adoption of this Ordinance,
    through a recorded subdivision plat, deed, sales contract, or survey, and a lot that met the
    zoning and subdivision regulations in effect at the time of its creation. For the purposes of
    this Title, a pre-existing lot is a nonconforming lot and shall be regulated in the same
    manner as nonconforming lots.
71. “Pre-Existing Structure” means a structure that was legally constructed prior to the
   adoption of this ordinance. For the purposes of this Title, a pre-existing structure is a
   nonconforming structure and shall be regulated in the same manner as nonconforming
   structures.
72. “Pre-Existing Use” means a use that was legally established prior to the adoption of this
    Ordinance and has not been abandoned for more than one year. For the purposes of this
    Title, a pre-existing use is a nonconforming use and shall be regulated in the same manner
    as nonconforming uses.
73. “Provisional Parking” means an area or areas within a parking lot where parking spaces
    which are shown on the approved parking plan are landscaped rather than paved.
74. “Public Works Operations” means the division or personnel hired by or contracted with the
    municipality to provide road construction and maintenance, snow removal and other
    related services.
75. “Road” can be used interchangeably with the word street.
76. “Road, Private” means the same as “Street, Private”

77. “Record of Survey Map” means a map of a survey of land prepared in accordance with
    Utah Code.

78. “Residential Roadway” means a public local residential road that:

   a. Will serve primarily to provide access to adjacent primarily residential areas and
      property;

   b. Is designed to accommodate minimal traffic volumes or vehicular traffic;

   c. Is not identified as a supplementary to a collector or other higher system classified
      street in an approved municipal street or transportation master plan;

   d. Has a posted speed limit of 25 miles per hour or less;

   e. Does not have higher traffic volumes resulting from connecting previously separated
      areas of the municipal road network;

   f.   Cannot have a primary access, but can have a secondary access, and does not abut
        lots intended for high volume traffic or community centers, including schools,
        recreation centers, sports complexes, or libraries; and
   g. Primarily serves traffic within a neighborhood or limited residential area and is not
      necessarily continuous through several residential areas.

79. “Sanitary Sewer Authority” means the department, agency, or public entity with
   responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of sanitary sewer services or onsite
   wastewater systems.

80. "Site plan" means an accurately scaled plan that illustrates the existing conditions on a
    land parcel and the details of a proposed development, including but not limited to:
    topography; vegetation; drainage; flood plains; wetlands; waterways; landscaping and
    open space; walkways; means of ingress and egress; circulation; utility easements and
    services; structures and buildings; lighting; berms, buffers and screening devices;
    development on adjacent property; and any other information that may be required to
    make an informed decision.

81. "Slope" means the level of inclination from the horizontal, determined by dividing, in fifty
    foot intervals, the average horizontal run of the slope into the average vertical rise of the
    same slope and converting the resulting figure into a percentage value.

82. “Standards and Specifications” means the construction and design requirements and
    standards of the municipality for the construction and installation of public infrastructure
    and improvements. The documents shall be approved by the Municipal Engineer and
    approved by Resolution of the Council.

83. "Start of Construction" includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building
    permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
    placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty days of the permit date.
    The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
    on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, the construction
    of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
    manufactured home on a foundation. "Permanent construction" does not include land
    preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of
    streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
    foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
    property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units
    or not as part of the main structure.

84. "Stream, Ephemeral" means those channels, swales, gullies, or low areas that do not have
    flow year-round or are not shown on United States Geological Services (U.S.G.S.)
    topographic maps as perennial streams. These are generally channels that are tributary
    to perennial streams, other ephemeral streams, terminal low areas, ponds, or lakes. They
    are typically dry except during periods of snowmelt runoff or intense rainfall. (Contrast with
    "Stream, Perennial.")

85. "Stream, Perennial" means those streams, excluding ephemeral streams, or ditches and
    canals constructed for irrigation and drainage purposes, which flow year-round during
    years of normal rainfall, and that are identified on the appropriate United States Geological
    Services (U.S.G.S.) topographic maps as perennial streams. (Contrast with "Stream,
    Ephemeral.")
86. "Stream corridor" means the corridor defined by a perennial stream's ordinary high water
    mark.

87. "Street" means a thoroughfare which has been dedicated or abandoned to the public and
    accepted by proper public authority, or a thoroughfare, not less than twenty-five feet wide,
    which has been made public by right of use and which affords the principal means of
    access to abutting property. Street does not include alleys or trails. May sometimes be
    referred to as road.

88. “Street, Private” means an access way, other than a driveway, similar to and having
    substantially the same or similar function as a public street, providing access to one or
    more properties, but held in private ownership. A “private street” is limited to the use of the
    owner or group of owners who share the use and maintain the street without the
    assistance of public entities. “Street, Private” and “Road, Private” can be used
    interchangeably.

89. "Streetlight" means a raised light installed within or adjacent to the street right-of-way,
    turned on or lit at a certain time every night. Modern lamps may also have light-sensitive
    photocells to turn them on at dusk and off at sunrise or activate automatically in foul
    weather.

90. "Structure" means anything constructed or erected which requires location on the ground
    or attached to something having a location on the ground.

91. "Structural Alterations" means any change in supporting members of a building or
   structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.

92. "Subdivision" means any land that is divided, resubdivided, or proposed to be divided into
    two or more lots or other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for
    offer, sale, lease, or development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other
    plans, terms, and conditions.

   a. "Subdivision" includes:

       i.   The division or development of land, whether by deed, metes and bounds
            description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded instrument,
            regardless of whether the division includes all or a portion of a parcel or lot; and ii.
            Except as provided in Subsection B, divisions of land for residential and
            nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for commercial, agricultural,
            and industrial purposes.

   b. "Subdivision" does not include:

       i.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the purpose of joining one
            of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of unsubdivided agricultural
            land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor the parcel remaining from the
            division or partition violates an applicable land use ordinance; ii. A boundary line
            agreement recorded with the county recorder's office between owners of adjoining
            parcels adjusting the mutual boundary in accordance with Utah Code § 10-9a-524
          if no new parcel is created; iii. A recorded document, executed by the owner of
          record:

          (a) Revising the legal descriptions of multiple parcels into one legal description
              encompassing all such parcels; or

          (b) Joining a lot to a parcel;

          (c) A boundary line agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided properties
              adjusting the mutual lot line boundary in accordance with Utah Code, §§
              Sections 10-9a-524 and 10-9a-608, if:

              (i) No new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the adjustment; and

              (ii) The adjustment will not violate any applicable land use ordinance;

          (d) A bona fide division of land by deed or other instrument if the deed or other
              instrument states in writing that the division:

              (i) Is in anticipation of future land use approvals on the parcel or parcels;

              (ii) Does not confer any land use approvals; and

              (iii) Has not been approved by the land use authority;

              (iv) A parcel boundary adjustment;

              (v) A lot line adjustment;

              (vi) A road, street, or highway dedication plat;

              (vii) A deed or easement for a road, street, or highway purpose; or

              (viii) Any other division of land authorized by law.

93. "Subdivision Amendment" means an amendment to a recorded subdivision in accordance
    with Utah Code §10-9a-608, that:

   a. Vacates all or a portion of the subdivision; b. Alters the outside boundary of the
      subdivision; c. Changes the number of lots within the subdivision; d. Alters a public
      right-of-way, a public easement, or public infrastructure within the subdivision; or e.
      Alters a common area or other common amenity within the subdivision.

94. “Subject Property” means the land area for which an approval is required to comply with
    this Ordinance.

95. "Substantial economic hardship" means a denial of all reasonable economic use of a
    property.
96. "Substantial improvement" means:

   a. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
      exceeds fifty percent of the market value of the structure, either:

       i.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or ii. If the structure is damaged and
            is being restored, before the damage occurred.

   b. For the purpose of this definition, "substantial improvement" is considered to occur
      when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building
      commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
      structure.

   c. The term does not, however, include either:

       i.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local
            health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
            safe living conditions; or ii. Any alteration of a structure listed on the National
            Register of Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.

97. "Trails" means a system of public recreational pathways located within the municipality for
    use by the public for walking, biking and/or horseback riding as designated.

98. "Undevelopable" means strict application of this title prevents the minimum development
    necessary to establish a permitted or conditional use in the underlying zone on the
    property.

99. "Utility Company" means a company regulated by the public service commission that
    provides a service including but not limited to electricity, telephone, or gas.

100. “Utilities or Improvements” means all types of necessary utilities such as gas lines,
   culinary and secondary water lines, storm drainage systems, sanitary sewer systems,
   electrical power, cable, and telephone with all poles, wires, pipes, and structures as
   necessary to provide services, and surface improvements such sidewalks, curbs, gutters,
   and streets.

101. “Vehicle” means a self-propelled device used for transporting persons or things,
   including, but not limited to, automobiles, watercraft, motorcycles, snowmobiles, and
   recreation vehicles. Does not include heavy machinery.

102. "Vehicle, Commercial" means any motorized vehicle or trailer used for or intended for
   business use - including but not limited to the transportation of commercial equipment,
   merchandise, produce, freight, commodities, passengers, or animals - and which is
   characterized by any of the following:

   a. Heavy equipment, such as earth movers, backhoes, cranes, forklifts, bulldozers, and
      the like, which are commonly used for construction, excavation, demolition, or lifting;
       b. Vehicles used to haul equipment or materials, such as dump trucks, tanker trucks,
          semi-tractors, semi-trailers, cement trucks, or other similar vehicles;

       c. Pickup trucks over one ton with a commercial modification, such as a flat bed, a
          dumping mechanism, mechanical lifts or arms for loading and unloading
          materials/equipment, aerial buckets or platforms, or other similar feature;

       d. Vehicles exceeding Class 5 (two-axle, six tire single unit trucks) in the Federal
          Highway Administration vehicle category classification; or

       e. Vehicles with a payload capacity of more than eight thousand five hundred (8,500)
          pounds.

103. "Waiver" means permission to depart from the requirements of an Ordinance with respect
   to the application of a specific regulation.

19.04.30 Site Standard Definitions.

A. Site Development terms used in Title 19 are defined as follows:
   1. “Active Recreation” means activities that involve inactive or less energetic activities often
      performed by leisurely walking or conducting small group gatherings that do not require
      physical activity.
   2. “Arterial Street” means a street, existing or proposed, which serves or is intended to serve
      as a major traffic way and which is designated on the UDOT Functional Classification Map
      as a controlled-access highway, limited-access road, major street, parkway or by
      equivalent terms suitable to identify streets comprising the basic structure of the street
      plan.
   3. “All Weather Surface” means a surface composed of gravel, stone, macadam, or other
      approved pervious material, with sufficient depth and compaction to permit vehicular traffic
      in extremely inclement weather.
   4. "Alley" means a public or private way which affords a secondary means of access to
      abutting property.
   5. "Basement" means any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a floor
      level in a building having only one (1) floor level shall be classified as a basement unless
      such floor level qualifies as a first story.
   6. “Base Density” means the original density permitted under the property’s zoning category,
      in dwelling units per acre.
   7. “Buildable Area” means a lot or portion thereof possessing all of the following physical
      characteristics:
       a. The area contains no territory having a slope of thirty percent (30%) or greater;
   b. The area contains no territory which is located in any identified floodplain or within any
      recognized inundation zone, mudflow zone or zone of deformation, or lands subject to
      earth slippage, landslide or rockfall;
   c. The engineering properties of the soil provide adequate structural support for the
      intended use; and
   d. The area does not possess any other recognized natural condition which renders it
      unsafe for building purposes.
8. "Building" means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
   housing or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels.
9. “Building Alteration” means any act or process that changes the architectural detail,
   function, or structural design of a building, including but not limited to the erection,
   construction, reconstruction, or removal of any building.
10. “Building Coverage” means the maximum horizontal area within the outer perimeter of the
    building walls, dividers, or columns at ground level or above, whichever is the greater area,
    including, without limitation, courts and exterior stairways, but excluding:
   a. Uncovered decks, porches, patios, terraces, and stairways all less than thirty inches
      high; and
   b. The outer four feet of completely open, uncovered, cantilevered balconies having a
      minimum of eight feet of vertical clearance below.
11. “Building Envelope” means the building pad, building footprint, and height restrictions,
    which define the maximum building area in which all development shall occur. The building
    envelop is the area that remains for placing a structure on a site after building line, setback,
    side yard, height and bulk regulations are observed.
12. “Building Facade” means the exterior of a building located above ground and generally
    visible from public points of view.
13. “Building Footprint” means the total area of the foundation of a structure, or the furthest
    exterior wall or supporting column of the structure. Decks, porches, patios, stairways,
    terraces, planter boxes and balconies that are both uncovered and less than thirty feet
    (30’) tall, measured from the finished grade are not part of the building footprint.
14. “Building Height” means the vertical distance above the natural grade at any point on the
    perimeter of the building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line
    of a mansard roof, or to a level midway between the level of the eaves and the highest
    point of pitched or hipped roofs, or to a level two-thirds of the distance from the level of
    the eaves to the highest point of gambrel roofs. For purposes of measuring height, the
    "level of the eaves" means the highest level where the plane of the roof intersects the
    plane of the outside wall on any side containing an eave. Buildings may be stepped to
    accommodate the slope of the terrain provided that each step shall be at least twelve feet
    in horizontal dimension. The height of each stepped building segment shall be measured
    separately.
15. “Building Street Frontage” means the portion of the building directly fronting or adjacent to
    the street. Building Street Frontage is calculated by dividing the portion of the building at
    the build-to-line or within a specified distance of the build-to-line by the street frontage.
16. “Build-to-Line” means the maximum distance a building may be setback from a property
    line or other designated location. The purpose of a build-to-line is to bring structures
    adjacent to streets and sidewalks to encourage pedestrian activity.
17. "Collector Street" means a street which carries traffic from local streets to the Arterial
    Street system, including the principal entrance streets of residence development and the
    primary circulating streets within such a development. A collector street may have
    prohibited movements and the number and spacing of driveways may be controlled.
18. "Cul-de-sac" means a minor street having one open end and being terminated at the other
    by a vehicular turnaround.
19. “Dedication” means the setting aside of land by an owner for any public use for the
    enjoyment of the public and owned by a public agency.
20. "Entrance" means the location of ingress to a room, building, or lot; a location of
    admittance.
21. "Exit" means the location of egress from a room, building, or lot.
22. “Fence” means any tangible barrier, latticework, screen, wall, hedge, or continuous growth
    of shrubs or trees with the purpose of, or having the effect of, preventing passage or view
    across the fence line.
23. "Final Plat" means a plat map prepared in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance
    for the purpose of subdividing property. A final plat shall be based on an accurate survey,
    and such survey marked on the ground so that streets, alleys, blocks, lots, and other
    divisions thereof can be identified.
24. "Frontage" means the uninterrupted linear or curvilinear extent of a lot, abutting on a street,
    measured along the street right-of-way from the intersection of one side lot line to the
    intersection of the other side lot line. The measurement of lot frontage does not include
    irregularities in the street line and, in the case of a corner lot, shall extend to the point of
    intersection of the rights-of-way. If a lot has frontage on more than one street, only the
    frontage on one street may be used to satisfy the minimum lot frontage.
25. “Grade, Finished” means the topographic elevations where the earth meets the building,
    upon project completion. Excluded from this definition are window wells serving basement
    rooms. Also referred to as "final grade".
26. “Grade, Natural” means the topographic elevations representing the surface of the ground
    prior to grading, filling, or other site alterations for a project. When natural grade is not
    readily apparent, an approximation of preexisting conditions using grades on adjacent
    sites, retaining walls, prior survey maps, etc., may be used as a reference for determining
    natural grade. All such grade approximations shall require the concurrence of the Director.
    “Grade, Natural” is also referred to as "existing grade".
27. “Green Space” means open space maintained in a natural, undisturbed, or revegetated
    condition.
28. “Guarantee” means a bond, escrow or irrevocable letter of credit given by the applicant(a)
    to ensure the proper installation of public infrastructure and improvements.
29. "Intensity" means the concentration of activity, such as a combination of the number of
    people, cars, visitors, customers, hours of operation, outdoor advertising, etc.; also, the
    size of buildings or structures, the most intense being higher, longer and/or wider.
30. "Lot" means a parcel of land occupied or proposed to be occupied by a building or
    buildings, together with such yards, open spaces, lot width, and lot areas as are required
    by this Title, having frontage upon a street or a right-of-way approved by a Land Use
    Hearing Officer, or upon a right-of-way not less than twenty feet wide. Except as provided
    in this Title, not more than one dwelling structure may occupy one lot.
31. "Lot, Corner" means a lot abutting on two intersecting or intercepting streets, where the
    interior angle of intersection or interception does not exceed one hundred thirty-five
    degrees.
32. “Lot, Double Fronting” means a lot having frontage on two (2) streets that are parallel or
    nearly so or do not intersect.
33. "Lot, Interior" means a lot other than a corner lot.
34. “Lot Line Adjustment” means the relocation of the property boundary line in a subdivision
    between two adjoining lots with the consent of the owners of record. “Lot Line Adjustment”
    does not mean a new boundary line that creates an additional lot or constitutes a
    subdivision or a subdivision amendment.
35. “Lot Line, Front” means the front boundary line of a lot bordering the street.
36. “Lot Line, Rear” means a lot line that is opposite and most distant from the front lot line. In
    the case of an irregular-shaped lot, the rear lot line shall be that lot line that is generally
    parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line, having a length of at least
    ten feet (10').
37. “Lot Line, Side” means any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
38. "Lot Width" means the distance between the side lot lines measured at the required front
    yard setback line. For a corner lot, the lot width is the distance between one of the front
    lot lines and the opposite side yard line at the required front yard setback line.
39. "Main Building" means the principal building or one of the principal buildings upon a lot, or
    the building or one of the principal buildings housing a principal use upon a lot.
40. "Major Local Street" means a street, existing or proposed, which serves or is intended to
    serve to connect minor local streets with collector streets while also providing direct
    access to property. A major local street has more continuity for through-traffic than a minor
    local street.
41. “Major Street” means an arterial street, collector street or other street where new access
    is limited or controlled.
42. "Marginal Access Street" means a local street, parallel and adjacent to a minor arterial or
    minor collector street providing access to abutting properties and protection from arterial
    or collector streets.
43. "Natural open space" means land in a predominantly open and undeveloped condition
    that is suitable for any of the following: natural areas; wildlife and native plant habitat;
    important wetlands or watershed lands; stream corridors; passive, low-impact activities;
    little or no land disturbance; or trails for non-motorized activities.
44. “Off Street Parking” means a site or a portion of a site, devoted to the off-street parking of
    vehicles, including parking spaces, aisles, access drives, and landscaped areas, and
    providing vehicular access to a public street.
45. "Organic Disposal Site" means a disposal site where settled or precipitated solid matter
    produced by water and sewage treatment processes is disposed of in compliance with the
    board of health requirements, using sanitary land-filling techniques, in a manner that does
    not create a nuisance or health hazard, that protects the environment, and will not cause
    a pollution source of water, air, etc.
46. “Open Space” means an area of land or water set aside to be preserved or reserved for
    use by residents of the development. An expanse of lawn, trees, plants, or other natural
    areas. Any landscaped area of the site including: required yards, setbacks, walkways, and
    limited common areas. It does not include parking, driveways, or buildings with habitable
    space for primary uses, but may include buildings for the purpose of providing an amenity.
    Open space may be distributed throughout the development and need not be in a single
    large area. Open space may include sensitive areas, such as areas with 30% or greater
    slope, fault zones, floodplains, high water tables, and wetlands if they have been designed
    as an integral element of the project. Any additional amenity that is located on the roof of
    a building may not be considered open space.
47. "Parking Lot" means an open area, other than a street, used for parking of more than four
    automobiles and available for public use, whether free, for compensation, or as an
    accommodation for clients or customers.
48. "Parking Space" means space within a building, lot, or parking lot for the parking or storage
    of one automobile.
49. “Passive Recreation” means activities that involve inactive or less energetic activities often
    performed by leisurely walking or conducting small group gatherings that do not require
    physical activity.
50. "Preliminary Approval" means an approval, with or without recommended alterations,
    given to a preliminary plat by the Planning Commission and provides the necessary
    authority to proceed with the preparation and presentation of the final plat.
51. "Preliminary Plat" means a map or plan of a proposed land division or subdivision. A
    drawing that shows the perimeter boundary, topography, lot layout arrangement, street
    layout, and other features of a proposed subdivision, as specified for a preliminary plat in
    the Ordinance.
52. “Public Utility Easement” An area on a recorded plat map or other recorded document that
    is dedicated to the use and installation of public utility lines, mains, services, and minor
    facilities.
53. "Retaining wall" means a wall designed and constructed to resist the lateral displacement
    and erosion of soils or other materials.
54. “Setback” means a distance from a curb, property line, or structure within which building
    is prohibited.
55. “Side Yard, Corner Lot” means a side lot line that abuts a street.
56. “Side Yard, Interior Lot” means a side lot line that abuts a side or rear lot line of another
    lot.
57. “Stealth Design” means the use of alternative support structures to blend or hide the
    communication equipment with the design, shape, or color of the structure. Examples of
    stealth design include field lights, clock towers, bell towers, water towers, flagpoles,
    windmills, monuments, etc.
58. "Story" means that portion of a building included between the upper surface of any floor
    and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost story shall be that
    portion of a building included between the upper surface of the topmost floor and the
    ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level directly above a usable or unused underfloor
    space is more than six feet above grade for more than fifty percent of the total perimeter
    or is more than twelve feet above grade at any point, such usable or unused underfloor
    space will be considered a story.
59. "Story, First" means the lowest story in a building that qualifies as a story, except that a
    floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a first story,
    provided such floor level is not more than four feet below grade for more than fifty percent
    of the total perimeter, or not more than eight feet below grade at any point.
60. "Story, Half" means a story with at least two of its opposite sides situated in a sloping roof,
    the floor area of which does not exceed two-thirds of the floor immediately below it.
61. "Yard" means a space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed from the
    ground upward by buildings or structures, except as provided herein.
62. "Yard, Front" means a space on the same lot with a building, between the front line of the
    building and the front lot line, and extending across the full width of the lot. The "depth" of
    the front yard is the minimum distance between the front lot line and the front line of the
    building.
63. "Yard, Rear" means a space on the same lot with a building, between the rear line of the
    building and the rear lot line, and extending the full width of the lot. The "depth" of the rear
    yard is the minimum distance between the rear lot line and the rear line of the building.
64. “Yard, Required” means the open space around buildings which is required by the terms
    of this Title.
   65. "Yard, Side" means a space on the same lot with a building, between the side line of the
       building and the side lot line, and extending from the front yard to the rear yard. The "width"
       of the side yard shall be the minimum distance between the side lot line and the side lot
       line of the building. See “Side Yard, Interior Lot” and “Side Yard, Corner Lot”.
19.04.40 Telecommunications Definitions.

A. Telecommunications terms used in Title 19 are defined as follows:
   1. “Amateur Radio Antenna” means a radio antenna that complies with the ruling of the
      Federal Communications Commission in "Amateur Radio Preemption, 101 FCC 2nd 952
      (1985)" or meets the standards related to amateur radio service adopted under 47 C.F.R.
      Part 97.
   2. “Amateur Radio Antenna Support Structure” means a lattice or pole structure which acts
      as a support to the amateur radio antenna. Typical support structures are triangular or
      square in cross-section, crank up, or guyed, and are constructed with galvanized steel or
      aluminum.
   3. “Antenna” means a transducer, attached to a support structure, designed to transmit or
      receive electromagnetic waves.
   4. "Distribution system" means the portion of the system located between: (1) the service
      drop transformer and the distribution substation for electric service, (2) the service drop
      and the receive site (headend) for cable television, or (3) the service drop and the
      transmission system for telephone service.
   5. “Earth Station” means a communication facility that transmits and/or receives signals to
      and from orbiting satellite(s).
   6. “Lattice Tower” means a support structure constructed of vertical metal struts and cross
      braces forming a triangular or square structure that often tapers from the foundation to the
      top.
   7. "Service Drop" means the portion of the system located between the distribution system
      and wall of the building or structure occupied or intended to be occupied by a customer.
   8. "System" means all poles, towers, wires, lines, cables, conduits, pipes and accessory
      equipment providing service such as electricity, telephone, telegraph, cable television,
      gas, water, sewer, steam or petroleum including service drops, distribution system,
      transmission system, and accessory equipment.
   9. “Telecommunication Facilities, Wireless Communication Facilities, and Radio/TV
      Transmitting Towers” means facilities used for the transmission or reception of
      electromagnetic or electro-optic information, which is placed on a structure.
      Telecommunications Sites/Facilities do not include Amateur Radio equipment that
      complies with the ruling of the Federal Communications Commission in “Amateur Radio
      Preemption, 101 FCC 2nd 952 (1985)” or amateur radio service adopted under 47 C.F.R.
      Part 97.
   10. "Transmission System" means the portion of the system which is used to carry the service
       from points of generation or switching centers to distribution points such as electrical
       substations and equipment sites. In the case of electrical service, a transmission system
       is defined as carrying a voltage of forty-six (46) KV or more.
   11. “Wireless Facility” means equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
       communication between user equipment and a communications network, including (a)
       equipment associated with wireless communication; and (ii) regardless of the
       technological configuration, a radio transceiver, an antenna, a coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
       a regular or back up power supply, or comparable equipment. Wireless Facility does not
       include the structure or an improvement on, under, or within which the equipment is
       collocated; or a coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is: between wireless structures or utility
       poles; not immediately adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna; or a
       wireline backhaul facility. (Utah Code § 54-21-101)
   12. “Wireless Telecommunications Antenna” means the physical device through which
       electromagnetic, wireless telecommunications signals authorized by the Federal
       Communications Commission are transmitted or received. Antennas used by amateur
       radio operators are excluded from this definition.
   13. “Wireless Telecommunications Equipment Shelter” means the structure in which the
       electronic receiving and relay equipment for a wireless telecommunications facility is
       housed.
   14. “Wireless Telecommunications Site/Facility” means an unmanned structure that consists
       of equipment used primarily for the transmission, reception, or transfer of voice or data
       through radio wave or wireless transmissions. Such sites typically require the construction
       of transmission support structures to which antenna equipment is attached.
   15. “Wireless Telecommunications Tower” means a facility consisting of the equipment and
       structures involved in receiving telecommunications or radio signals from a mobile radio
       communications source and transmitting those signals to a central switching computer
       that connects the mobile unit with the land-based telephone lines.
19.04.50 Landscaping Definitions.

A. Landscaping terminology used in Title 19 is defined as follows:
   1. “Active Recreation Area” means an area that is dedicated to active play where turf grass
      may be used as the playing surface. Examples of active recreation areas include sports
      fields, play areas, and other similar uses.
   2. “Bubbler” means an irrigation head that delivers water to the root zone by “flooding” the
      planted area, usually measured in gallons per minute. Bubblers exhibit a trickle, umbrella
      or short stream pattern.
   3. “Check Valve” means a device used in sprinkler heads or pipe to prevent water from
      draining out of the pipe through gravity flow.
   4. “Controller” means a device used in irrigation systems to automatically control when and
      how long sprinklers or drip systems operate.
   5. “Drip Emitter” means drip irrigation fittings that deliver water slowly at the root zone of the
      plant, usually measured in gallons per hour.
6. “Grading Plan” means a plan that shows all finish grades, spot elevations, drainage as
   necessary and existing and new contours with the developed landscaped area.
7. “Ground Cover” means material planted in such a way as to form a continuous cover over
   the ground that can be maintained at a height not more than twelve inches (12”).
8. “Hardscape” means patios, decks and paths. Does not include driveways and sidewalks.
9. “Irrigation Plan” means a plan showing the components of the irrigation system with water
   meter size, backflow prevention, precipitation rates, flow rate and operating pressure for
   each irrigation circuit, and identification of all irrigation equipment.
10. “Landscape Architect” means a person who holds a professional license to practice
    landscape architecture in the state of Utah. Per Utah Code, licensed landscape architects,
    licensed architects, licensed land surveyors, and licensed engineers can professionally
    stamp plans that fall under the practice of landscape architecture. This includes
    commercial landscape and irrigation plans. Magna City has the authority to require that
    only a licensed landscape architect can stamp plans that fall under the practice of
    landscape architecture.
11. “Landscape Designer” means a person who may or may not hold professional certificates
    for landscape design/architecture and cannot legally create commercial landscape plans.
    Landscape designers generally focus on residential design and horticultural needs of
    home landscapes.
12. “Landscape Documentation Package” means the preparation of a graphic and written
    criteria, specifications, and detailed plans to arrange and modify the effects of natural
    features such as plantings, ground and water forms, circulation, walks and other features
    to comply with the provisions of this ordinance. The landscape documentation package
    shall include a project data sheet, a site plan, a planting plan, an irrigation plan,
    construction details, and a grading plan.
13. “Landscape Zone” means a portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar water
    needs, areas with similar microclimate (i.e., slope, exposure, wind, etc.) and soil
    conditions, and areas that will be similarly irrigated. A landscape zone can be served by
    one irrigation valve, or a set of valves with the same schedule.
14. “Landscaping Improvement” means landscaping that an applicant is required to install to
    comply with published installation and inspection specifications for public improvements
    that:
1. Will be dedicated to and maintained by the municipality; or
2. Are associated with and proximate to trail improvements that connect to planned or
   existing public infrastructure.
15. “Landscaping” means any combination of living plants, such as trees, shrubs, vines,
    ground covers, annuals, perennials, ornamental grass, or seeding; natural features such
    as rock, stone, or bark chips; and structural features, including but not limited to, fountains,
    reflecting pools, outdoor art work, screen walls, fences or benches.
   16. “Localscapes®” means a locally adaptable and environmentally sustainable urban
       landscape style that requires less irrigation than traditional Utah landscapes (see
       www.Localscapes.com).
   17. “Mulch” means any material such as rock, bark, wood chips or other materials left loose
       and applied to the soil.
   18. “Park Strip” means a typically narrow landscaped area located between the back-of-curb
       and sidewalk.
   19. “Planting Plan” means a plan that clearly and accurately identifies the type, size, and
       locations for new and existing trees, shrubs, planting beds, ground covers, turf areas,
       driveways, sidewalks, hardscape features, and fences.
   20. “Pop-up Spray Head” means a sprinkler head that sprays water through a nozzle in a fixed
       pattern with no rotation.
   21. “Precipitation Rate” means the depth of water applied to a given area, usually measured
       in inches per hour.
   22. “Pressure Regulating Valve” means a valve installed in an irrigation mainline that reduces
       a higher supply pressure at the inlet down to a regulated lower pressure at the outlet.
   23. “Pressure Compensating” means a drip irrigation system that compensates for fluctuating
       water pressure by only allowing a fixed volume of water through drip emitters.
   24. “Rotor Spray Head” means a sprinkler head that distributes water through a nozzle by the
       rotation of a gear or mechanical rotor.
   25. “Runoff” means irrigation water that is not absorbed by the soil or landscape area to which
       it is applied, and which flows onto other areas.
   26. “Spray Sprinkler” means an irrigation head that sprays water through a nozzle.
   27. “Stream Sprinkler” means an irrigation head that projects water through a gear rotor in
       single or multiple streams.
   28. “Turf” means a surface layer of earth containing mowed grass with its roots.
   29. “Water-Conserving Plant” means a plant that can generally survive with available rainfall
       once established although supplemental irrigation may be needed or desirable during
       spring and summer months.
   30. “Weed(s)” means any vegetation commonly referred to as a weed, or which has been
       designated a noxious weed by the Utah Department of Agriculture and Food. Weeds also
       refer to areas of lawn or landscaping that have grown to the point of seeding.
19.04.60 Sign Definitions.

A. Sign terminology used in Title 19 is defined as follows:
   1. “Address Sign” means a sign that designates the street number and/or street name for
      identification purposes, as designated by the United States Postal Service.
2. “Awning” means a shelter extending from the exterior wall of a building and composed of
   nonrigid materials, including cloth, plastic, or other nonrigid materials, except for the
   supporting framework.
3. “Awning Sign” means any sign painted on, attached to, or supported by an awning.
4. “Balloon Sign” means a sign that is an air-inflated object, which may be of various shapes,
   made of flexible fabric, resting on the ground or a structure, and equipped with a portable
   blower motor that provides a constant flow of air into the device.
5. “Banner” means a temporary sign composed of cloth, canvas, plastic, fabric or similar
   lightweight, non-rigid material that can be mounted to a structure with cord, rope, cable,
   or a similar method, or that may be supported by stakes in the ground. Banners do not
   include flags.
6. “Billboard” means a freestanding ground sign located on industrial, commercial, or
   residential property if the sign is designed or intended to direct attention to a business,
   product, or service that is not sold, offered, or existing on the property where the sign is
   located (as defined in Utah Code § 10-9a-103).
7. “Blade Sign” means the same as “Projecting Sign.”
8. “Canopy” means a freestanding, permanent roof-like shelter, other than an awning, that
   may be either freestanding or attached to an adjacent building or structure.
9. “Canopy Sign” means a permanent sign attached to or constructed on a canopy.
10. “Drive-Thru Facility Sign” means a freestanding sign that is located along the path or aisle
    utilized for a drive-through facility.
11. “Driveway Sign” means a small permanent sign located near driveway access points
    and/or at the intersection of internal access drives.
12. “Electronic Message Center” means a sign designed so that the characters, letters, or
    illustrations can be changed or rearranged automatically on a lamp bank or through
    mechanical means (e.g., electronic or digital signs).
13. “Flag” means any sign printed or painted on cloth, plastic, canvas, or other like material
    with distinctive colors, patterns, or symbols attached to a pole or staff and anchored along
    only one edge or supported or anchored at only two corners. Flags do not include banner.
14. “Flat Sign” means the same as “Wall Sign”.
15. “Holiday Decorations” means signs or displays including lighting which are a non-
    permanent installations timed around national, state, and local holidays, religious or
    cultural holidays, or other holiday seasons.
16. “Illegal Sign” means a sign that is not permitted or allowed to be established in a zone,
    does not meet the requirements of the zoning ordinance, and/or has not received
    nonconforming status. Any sign not specifically listed as a permitted or conditional use is
    prohibited in that zone.
17. “Incidental Sign” means signs that are often attached to doors, windows, gas pumps, or
    other structures that are small in nature and typically intended to be read by a user up
    close, rather than from a distance by pedestrians or drivers.
18. “Light Pole Banner” means a temporary banner or sign that is designed to be attached to
    a permanent light pole or other pole structure, and where the temporary sign element can
    be changed without modifying the permanent structure.
19. “Limited Duration Sign” means a non-permanent sign that is displayed on private property
    for more than 30 days, but not intended to be displayed for an indefinite period.
20. “Marquee Sign” means a permanent, roof-like canopy with an integral sign that extends
    from part or all of a building face that may or may not project over a public right-of-way.
21. “Monument Sign” means a sign permanently affixed to the ground at its base, supported
    entirely by a base structure that is flush to the ground, and not mounted on a pole.
22. “Mural” means a large picture/image (including but not limited to painted art) which is
    painted, constructed, or affixed directly onto a vertical building wall, which may or may not
    contain text, logos, and/ or symbols.
23. “Off-Premise Sign” means a sign identifying or advertising a business, person, activity,
    goods, products or service, which is not related to, or available at the premises where the
    sign in located.
24. “Permanent Sign” means a sign attached or affixed to a building, structure, or the ground
    in a manner that enables the sign to resist environmental loads, such as wind, and
    precludes ready removal or movement of the sign and whose intended use appears to be
    indefinite.
25. “Pole Sign” means a freestanding sign that is permanently supported in a fixed location
    by a structure of one or more poles, posts, uprights, or braces from the ground and not
    supported by a building or a base structure.
26. “Portable Sign” means a sign designed to be transported or moved and not permanently
    attached to the ground, a building, or other structure.
27. “Projecting Sign” means a double-sided sign, excluding canopy and awning signs,
    mounted on a building such that the faces of the sign are perpendicular to the building and
    normal flow of traffic. It may also be referred to as a blade sign.
28. “Roof Sign” means any sign erected upon a roof, parapet, or roof-mounted equipment
    structure and extending above a roof, parapet, or roof-mounted equipment structure of a
    building or structure.
29. “Sidewalk or Sandwich Board Sign” means a moveable sign not secured or attached to
    the ground or surface upon which it is located that’s supported by its own frame. A common
    form of sidewalk sign may be referred to as a sandwich board sign that has the cross-
    sectional shape of the letter A. Sidewalk signs may also be in a form that has a cross-
    sectional shape of an upside-down letter T.
30. “Sign” means any words, letters, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences,
    emblems, devices, trade names, or trademarks, by which anything is made known, such
    as are used to designate an individual, a firm, an association, a corporation, a profession,
    a business, a commodity, an event, a gathering, or product, which are visible from any
    public way. “Sign” also includes the sign structure supports, lighting system, and any
    attachments, ornaments, or other features intended to draw the attention of observers.
31. “Sign Alteration” means a change or rearrangement in the structural part or design of a
    sign whether by extending on a side, by increasing in area or height, or by relocating or
    changing position.
32. “Sign Area” means the area of a sign that is used for display purposes, excluding the
    minimum frame and supports. In computing sign area, only one side of a back-to-back or
    double-faced sign shall be computed when signs are parallel or diverge from a common
    edge by an angle of not more than ten degrees. For signs that do not have a frame or a
    separate background, the sign area shall be computed on the basis of the least rectangle,
    triangle, or circle large enough to frame the display. Sign areas in the shape of a sphere,
    prism, cylinder, cone, pyramid, square, cube, or other such shape shall be computed as
    one-half of the total surface area.
33. “Sign Copy” means the words logos, symbols, or message displayed on a sign.
34. “Sign Face” means an exterior display surface of a sign including non-structural trim
    exclusive of the supporting structure.
35. “Sign Height” means the vertical distance above the natural grade at any point on the
    perimeter of the sign to the highest point of the sign structure.
36. “Sign Maintenance” means the upkeep of signs in a safe, presentable and good condition,
    including the replacement of defective parts, repainting, cleaning, and other acts required
    for the maintenance of said sign.
37. “Sign Setback” means the minimum distance that any portion of a sign or sign structure
    shall be from any street property line.
38. “Sign Structure” means anything constructed or erected supporting a sign which requires
    location on or below the ground or attached to something having a location on or below
    the ground.
39. “Snipe Sign” means a temporary sign illegally tacked, nailed, posted, pasted, glued, or
    otherwise attached to trees, poles, stakes, fences, or other objects.
40. “Temporary Sign” means a type of non-permanent, sign that is located on private property
    that can be displayed for no more than thirty (30) consecutive days at one time.
41. “Vehicle Sign” means a sign or advertising device attached to or located on a vehicle or
    trailer parked on a public right-of-way, public property, or parking area with access by the
    general public so as to be visible from a public right-of-way for the basic purpose of
    directing people to a business or activity.
42. “Wall Sign” means a building-mounted sign that is either painted on, attached to, or
    displayed on a wall or its facing in a manner parallel to the wall surface.
   43. “Window Sign” means any sign viewable through and/or affixed in any manner to a window
       or exterior glass door such that it is intended to be viewable from the exterior (beyond the
       sidewalk immediately adjacent to the window), including signs located inside a building
       but visible primarily from the outside of the building. Customary displays of merchandise
       behind a store window are not considered signs.
19.04.070 Use Definitions.

A. Uses identified in Title 19 are defined as follows:

   1. "Accessory Equipment" means the portion of the system including equipment sites,
      transformers, switchgear, pedestals, terminals, meters, buildings (substations), and other
      similar equipment that is normally installed aboveground in accordance with accepted
      practices of underground systems.
   2. “Accessory Structure” means a detached subordinate building or structure the appropriate
      use of which is subordinate and customarily incidental to the main building or to the main
      use of the land and which is located on the same lot or parcel of land with the main building
      or use. Accessory structures include detached garages or carports, garden or storage
      sheds, and children's playhouses, but do not involve the conduct of a business.
   3. “Accessory Dwelling Unit, Attached” means a habitable living unit attached to a primary
      single-family dwelling and contained on one lot for the purpose of offering a long-term
      rental of 30 consecutive days or longer. An “Accessory Dwelling Unit, Attached” may
      include an addition to the footprint of the primary dwelling.
   4. “Accessory Dwelling Unit, Detached” means a habitable living unit detached from a
      primary single-family dwelling and contained on one lot for the purpose of offering a long-
      term rental of thirty (30) consecutive days or longer.
   5. “Accessory Dwelling Unit, Internal” means an accessory dwelling unit created:
       a. Within a primary dwelling:
       b. Within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory dwelling
          unit (IADU) was created; and
       c. For the purpose of offering a long-term rental of thirty (30) consecutive days or longer.
   6. “Accessory Outside Storage” means the accessory location of any goods, wares,
      merchandise, commodities, or any other item outside of a completely enclosed building
      for a continuous period longer than twenty-four (24) hours. The area used for outdoor
      storage may not constitute more than fifteen percent (15%) of the lot area. With the
      exception of retail sales displays in an approved commercial area, outdoor storage shall
      be screened from public view by a minimum six-foot (6') high opaque fence or, when
      outdoor storage occurs in a front yard, side yard, or any other location within the public
      view, a fence or screening of a height and material determined by the Planning
      Commission. The presence of hazardous materials, junk, junk cars, or debris not usually
      appurtenant to permitted on-site uses is prohibited. "Outdoor storage" as defined herein
      does not include construction yards, storage yards, or other storage uses where the
   storage of items outside of an enclosed building is a primary characteristic of the use. See
   "storage yard."
7. “Accessory Use” means a use clearly incidental and subordinate to the existing primary
   use and customarily related to the primary use and located on the same lot or in the same
   building as the primary use.
8. “Agricultural Building” means a structure that is primarily associated with and supports
   agricultural use or activity but may not be used for human occupancy and complying with
   the requirements of Utah Code. To qualify as an agricultural building the structure shall
   meet all requirements of Utah Code, and be clearly associated with and necessary to
   support an agricultural use or activity.
9. “Agricultural Products Processing” means the processing of non-animal agricultural
   products including but not limited to the processing, cleaning, sorting, grading, packaging,
   or milling of products intended for human or animal consumption or use.
10. “Agricultural Sales” means the retail or wholesale sale of agricultural or horticultural
    products grown or raised on site and not produced or purchased from another location for
    resale. This use does not include the commercial slaughtering, processing, packaging, or
    sale of meat, poultry and dairy, concentrated animal feeding operation, or similar uses.
11. "Agriculture" means the tilling of the soil, the raising and harvesting of crops, horticulture
    and gardening, but not including the keeping or raising of domestic animals or fowl, except
    household pets, and not including any agricultural industry or business such as fruit-
    packing plants, fur farms, animal hospitals or similar uses.
12. “Agritourism” means a commercial enterprise linking agricultural production and/or
    processing with tourism in order to attract visitors onto a farm, ranch, or other agricultural
    business for the purposes of entertaining and/or educating the visitors and generating
    income for the farm, ranch, or business owner. This excludes guest ranches and other
    forms of overnight accommodation.
13. “Airport/Heliport” means an area used for the landing and takeoff of both fixed-wing aircraft
    and helicopters and buildings, structures, or other facilities associated with these activities,
    including taxiways, aircraft storage and tie-down areas, hangars, servicing, and passenger
    and freight terminals and used by commercial, private, or military aircraft.
14. “Animal Control or Rescue Facility” means a location, with buildings, structures, and
    holding facilities necessary to provide temporary housing and food for animals (primarily
    pets or companion animals) from abusive homes or homeless situations, rehabilitation (if
    the animal has health or behavior problems, or for treatment if the animal requires
    veterinary care). This may include publicly licensed facilities to detain and/or dispose of
    stray dogs, cats, and other animals.
15. “Animal Feeding Operation” means a facility that confines, feeds, and maintains domestic
    livestock in either an open or enclosed lot or space for a total of forty-five (45) days or
    more in any twelve (12)-month period. The area(s) where the livestock are confined does
    not sustain crops, vegetation, forage growth, or post-harvest residues in the normal
    growing season. An AFO may also be a Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation (“CAFO”
   see CAFO). An AFO may be subject to the requirements of the Utah Pollutant Discharge
   Elimination System (UPDES).
16. “Animal Hospital or Clinic” means facilities for the diagnosis, treatment and hospitalization
    of domesticated animals in indoor holding facilities but does not include any outdoor
    holding or boarding facilities.
17. “Animal Hospital or Clinic with Outdoor Holding Facilities” means facilities for the
    diagnosis, treatment, hospitalization, and boarding of animals (including large animals)
    that may include indoor and/or outdoor holding and boarding facilities.
18. “Apiary” means the assembly of one or more colonies of bees at a single location. For
    regulations regarding the keeping of bees, see Chapter 19.42 of this Title.
19. “Assembly Use” means a business where finished parts are assembled to develop a final
    product. These uses include computer and electronic assembly, and similar uses, but do
    not include vehicle or manufacturing type uses.
20. “Assisted Living Facility” means either: (i) a Type I Assisted Living Facility, which is a
    residential facility that supports activities of daily living and social care to two or more
    residents who require protected living arrangements and are sufficiently mobile to exit the
    facility without the assistance of another person: or(ii) a Type II Assisted Living Facility,
    which is a residential facility with a home-like setting that provides an array of coordinated
    supportive personal and health care services available twenty four (24) hours per day to
    residents who have been assessed under Utah Department of Health and Human
    Services rules to need any of these services.
21. “Athletic Clubs” means an indoor establishment that provides for aerobic exercises,
    weightlifting, bodybuilding, running, exercise equipment, game courts, swimming facilities,
    saunas, spas, showers, and lockers. See “Recreation Facility, Commercial” and
    “Recreation Facility, Private”.
22. “Bank” means the same as “Financial Institution.”
23. “Bar” means a commercial establishment open to the general public which sells and
    serves intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, subject to the Utah
    Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
24. “Bed and Breakfast” means dwellings in which two (2) or more rooms are rented out by
    the day, offering overnight lodging to travelers, and where one or more meals are provided
    by the host family, the price of which is included in the room rate.
25. “Breweries and Distilleries in association with a Restaurant” means a business which
    conducts the retail sale of beer or liquor which is brewed or distilled on the premises in
    compliance with applicable state and federal laws. Such establishments may also include
    restaurants as an accessory use.
26. “Breweries and Distilleries, Industrial” means an industrial use that brews ales, beers,
    meads, and/or similar beverages on site. Industrial breweries and distilleries are engaged
    predominantly in manufacturing and do not include a bar or restaurant. Industrial
    breweries and distilleries may include incidental retail sales when permitted by the
    Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.
27. "Boardinghouse" means a building with not more than five guestrooms, where, for
    compensation, meals are provided for at least five but not more than fifteen persons.
28. “Campground” means a public area designated by a public agency for camping, or a
    private area licensed by the local governing body for camping. Campground also includes
    any lot or parcel of land upon which two or more sites are located, established or
    maintained for occupancy by recreational vehicles for a fee as temporary living quarters
    for recreation or vacation purposes. This may include accessory facilities such as kitchens,
    pavilions, playgrounds, or storage for recreation equipment.
29. “Camping” means the use of any tent, trailer, lean-to, teepee, recreational vehicle, or
    similar non-permanent structure or vehicle for temporary living quarters for residential,
    recreation, education, or vacation purposes.
30. "Canopy" means a roofed structure supported by a building and/or supports extending to
    the ground directly underneath the canopy and providing a protective shield for service-
    station pump islands and walkways.
31. “Car and Light Truck Wash” means a facility with machine or hand-operated facilities used
    principally for the cleaning, washing, polishing, or waxing of automobiles and light trucks.
    A car and truck wash may be able to accommodate more than one vehicle at a time.
32. "Carport" means a private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the
    purpose of this Title, a carport shall be subject to all of the regulations prescribed for a
    private garage.
33. “Cemetery” means land used or dedicated to the burial of the dead, including
    crematoriums, mausoleums, necessary sales, and maintenance facilities.
34. “Check Cashing” means cashing a check for consideration or extending a deferred deposit
    loan and shall include any other similar types of businesses licensed by the State pursuant
    to the Check Cashing Registration Act. Check cashing does not include the activities of
    depository institutions or persons who cash a check in a transaction that is incidental to
    the retail sale of goods or services for consideration that does not exceed the greater of
    one percent of the amount of the check or three dollars.
35. “Child Care” means the provision, day or night, of supplemental parental care, instruction,
    and supervision for a non-related child or children, on a regular basis, and for less than
    twenty-four (24) hours a day. The term does not include babysitting services of a casual,
    non-recurring nature, or in the child’s own home or cooperative, or reciprocative child care
    by a group of parents in their respective domiciles.
36. “Child Care Center” means a facility, operated by a person qualified and licensed by the
    State of Utah, which provides children with daycare and/or preschool instruction as a
    commercial business and complying with all applicable state standards and licensing and
    having regularly scheduled, ongoing enrollment for direct or indirect compensation that
    provides childcare for less than twenty-four (24) hours per day. Commercial Daycare
    Facilities excludes the following:
   a. Kindergartens or nursery schools or other daytime programs operated by public or
      private elementary or secondary schools or institutions of higher learning;
   b. Facilities operated in connection with a fitness center, shopping center, or other activity
      where children are cared for temporarily while parents or custodians of the children
      are occupied on the premises or are in the immediate vicinity and readily available; or
   c. Special activities or programs, including athletics, crafts instruction, and similar
      activities, are conducted on a periodic basis by civic, charitable, private, or
      governmental organizations.
37. “Child Care, Home” means the same as “Home Daycare” and includes the following:
   a. “Child Care, Licensed Family” means the provision of childcare for sixteen or fewer
      children, including the provider’s children who are under the age of thirteen, in the
      home where the caregiver resides, in the absence of a child’s parents, for four (4) or
      more hours but less than twenty-four (24) hours, on a regularly scheduled, ongoing
      basis. A “Child Care, Licensed Family” is subject to licensing by the Utah Department
      of Health and Human Services.
   b. “Child Care, Residential” means the provision of childcare for eight or fewer children,
      including the provider’s children, who are under the age of thirteen, in the home where
      the caregiver resides, in the absence of a child’s parents, for less than twenty-four (24)
      hours, on a regularly scheduled, ongoing basis. A “Child Care, Residential” is subject
      to licensing by the Utah Department of Health and Human Services.
38. “Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Temple, Cathedral, or Other Religious Buildings” means a
    building, with accessory structures and uses, where persons regularly assemble for
    religious purposes and related social events and which building, with accessory structures
    and uses, is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain religious
    ceremonies and purposes.
39. “Club” means a building used, occupied, and operated by an organized association of
    persons for social, fraternal, religious, or patriotic purposes, whose activities are confined
    to the members and their guests, but may not include any organization, group, or
    association, of which the principal activity is to render a service usually and ordinarily
    carried on as a business. A club may also be a bar, subject to the Utah Alcoholic Beverage
    Control Act.
40. “Cluster Subdivision” means a subdivision in which the lot sizes are reduced below those
    normally required in the zone in which the development is located, in return for the
    provision of permanent open space.
41. “Commercial Plant Nursery” means a business where young plants or trees are raised for
    experimental horticultural purposes, for transplanting, or for sale.
42. "Commercial Recreation" means recreational facilities operated as a business and open
    to the general public for a fee, such as golf driving ranges and baseball batting ranges.
43. “Community Garden” means the production of a harvestable product, planted, grown, and
    cultivated in the soil by an identifiable group of community members. Includes products
    grown and managed by a community or neighborhood organization for local consumption
    or sale.
44. “Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation” An Animal Feeding Operation (AFO) is a
    “Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation” (“CAFO”) if it meets the regulatory definition of
    CAFO or if it is designated as a CAFO by the State of Utah. A CAFO is defined in 40 CFR
    122.23 Appendix B as “an animal feeding operation where more than one thousand
    (1,000) ‘animal units’ (as defined by the regulation) are confined at the location; or more
    than three hundred (300) animal units are confined at the facility and either one of the
    following conditions are met: pollutants are discharged into navigable waters through a
    man-made ditch, flushing system or other similar man-made devices; or pollutants are
    discharged directly into waters of the United States which originate outside of and pass
    over, across, or through the facility or otherwise come into direct contact with the animals
    confined in the operation.” (“Animal unit,” for the purposes of an AFO being designated as
    a CAFO by the State of Utah, means a unit of measurement for any animal feeding
    operation calculated as per the Utah Administrative Code (UAC) R317-8-3.5 and used to
    determine if an operation meets the definition of a concentrated animal feeding operation).
    A CAFO is subject to the requirements of the Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
    (UPDES).
45. “Contractor’s Office” A facility providing building construction and maintenance, including
    carpentry, plumbing, roofing, electrical, air conditioning, and heating, within a fully
    enclosed building, and that may include the open storage of associated building materials,
    equipment, or vehicles.
46. “Contractor’s Storage Yard” means the same as “Storage Yard”.
47. "Corral" means a space, other than a building, less than one acre in area or less than one
    hundred feet in width, used for the confinement of animals.
48. “Correctional Facility” means any facility operated by or contracting with the Department
    of Corrections to house offenders in either a secure or non-secure setting; which includes
    any facility operated by a municipality or a county to house or detain criminal offenders,
    any juvenile detention facility, and any building or grounds appurtenant to the facility or
    lands granted to the state, municipality, or county for use as a correctional facility.
49. "Court" means an occupied space on a lot, other than a yard, designed to be partially
    surrounded by group dwellings.
50. “Crematorium” means a building that contains cremation chambers and a holding facility
    for human or pet remains, and which may receive remains from funeral establishments.
51. "Critical infrastructure Materials" means sand, gravel, or rock aggregate.
52. "Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations" means the extraction, excavation,
    processing, or reprocessing of critical infrastructure materials.
53. "Critical Infrastructure Materials Operator" means a natural person, corporation,
    association, partnership, receiver, trustee, executor, administrator, guardian, fiduciary,
    agent, or other organization or representative, either public or private, including a
    successor, assign, affiliate, subsidiary, and related parent company, that:
   a. Owns, controls, or manages a critical infrastructure materials operations; and
   b. Has produced commercial quantities of critical infrastructure materials from the critical
      infrastructure materials operations.
54. "Dairy" means a commercial establishment for the manufacture or processing of dairy
    products.
55. “Drive-Thru and Drive-Up Facilities” means an establishment designed or operated to
    provide drive-through or drive-up service to patrons remaining in vehicles. “Drive-Thru and
    Drive Up Facilities” may include other forms of service, such as conventional seating.
56. “Duplex” means the same as “Dwelling, Two Family.”
57. “Dwelling, Manufactured Home” means a transportable factory-built housing unit
    constructed on or after June 15, 1976, according to the HUD Code, in one or more
    sections, that: (a) in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40)
    body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is four hundred (400sq. ft.) or more;
    and (b) is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
    without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the
    plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems. A manufactured home shall be
    attached to a permanent foundation in accordance with plans providing for vertical loads,
    uplift, lateral forces, and frost protection in compliance with the Magna City’s Building
    Code, as adopted. All appendages, including carports, garages, storage buildings,
    additions, or alterations shall be built in compliance with Magna City’s Building Code, as
    adopted.
58. “Dwelling, Mobile Home” means a transportable factory-built housing unit built prior to
    June 15, 1976, in accordance with a state mobile home code that existed prior to the HUD
    Code. HUD Code means the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
    Standards Act, 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5401 et seq.
59. “Dwelling, Modular Unit” means a structure: (a) built from sections that are manufactured
    in accordance with the State Construction Code and transported to a building site; and (b)
    the purpose of which is for human habitation, occupancy, or use
60. “Dwelling, Multiple Family” means a building containing five (5) or more residential
    dwelling units.
61. “Dwelling, Single-Family” means a building containing one (1) residential dwelling unit.
62. “Dwelling, Single-Family Attached” A residential structure designed to house a single-
    family unit from the lowest level to roof, with a private outside entrance, but not necessarily
    occupying a private lot, and sharing a common wall adjoining dwelling units.
63. “Dwelling, Three- and Four-Family (3-plex and 4-plex)” means a building containing three
    (3) or four (4) residential dwelling units, each unit designed to be occupied by one (1)
    family.
64. “Dwelling, Two Family” means a building containing two (2) residential dwelling units.
65. “Dwelling group” means a group of two (2) or more dwellings located on a parcel of land
    in one (1) ownership and having any yard or court in common.
66. “Educational Facility” means: (i) a school district's building at which pupils assemble to
    receive instruction in a program for any combination of grades from preschool through
    grade 12, including kindergarten and programs for children with disabilities; (ii) a structure
    or facility: (A) located on the same property as a building described in Subsection
    (12)(a)(i); and (B) used in support of the use of that building; and (iii) a building to provide
    office and related space to a school district's administrative personnel; and (b) does not
    include: (i) land or a structure, including land or a structure for inventory storage,
    equipment storage, food processing or preparing, vehicle storage or maintenance, or
    similar use that is: (A) not located on the same property as a building described in
    Subsection (12)(a)(i); and (B) used in support of the purposes of a building described in
    Subsection (12)(a)(i); or (ii) a therapeutic school.
67. “Educational Facility with Residential Accommodation” means an educational facility with
    living accommodations for students or staff, such as universities, colleges, boarding
    schools, and seminaries. Educational facility includes public and private schools (PreK-
    12) designed for educational activities with a curriculum for technical or vocational training,
    pre-kindergarten, kindergarten, elementary, secondary, or higher education and
    recognized as an educational institution by the State of Utah Board of Education, the State
    of Utah Board of Higher Education, or the State Board of Regents.
68. "Family Food Production" means the keeping of not more than two cows, two sheep, two
    goats, twenty rabbits, fifty chickens, fifty pheasants, ten ducks, ten turkeys, ten geese, and
    twenty pigeons; provided that not more than three of the above-listed kinds of animals and
    fowl are permitted at any one time on any lot in zones where family food production may
    be a permitted or conditional use.
69. “Farm Products" means fruits, vegetables, mushrooms, herbs, nuts, shell eggs, honey or
    other bee products, flowers, nursery stock, livestock food products (including meat, milk,
    cheese and other dairy products), and fish.
70. “Farmers’ Market” means an outdoor market open to the public, operated by a
    governmental agency, a nonprofit corporation, or one or more producers, at which (a) at
    least 75 percent of the products sold are farm products or alue added farm products and
    (b) at least 75 percent of the vendors regularly participating during the market’s hours of
    operation are producers, or family members or employees of producers.
71. “Financial Institutions” means a trust company, savings bank, industrial bank, savings and
    loan association, building and loan association, commercial bank, credit union, federal
    association, investment company, or other business association—which is chartered
    under federal or state law—solicits, receives, or accepts money or its equivalent on
    deposit and loans money as a regular business. "Financial institutions" does not include
    "check cashing", "pawn shops" or other similar uses.
72. “Financial Institutions, Nondepository” means establishments that are primarily engaged
    in short term lending, such as title loans, check cashing, deferred deposit loan, or similar
    type of businesses.
73. “Fireworks Stand” means a type of temporary use that sells fireworks or explosives defined
    and regulated under the Utah Fire Prevention and Fireworks Act.
74. "Food Cart" means a cart:
      a. That is not motorized; and
      b. That a vendor, standing outside the frame of the cart, uses to prepare, sell, or serve
         food or beverages for immediate human consumption.
75. "Food Truck" means:
       a. A fully encased food service establishment:
         i.   On a motor vehicle or on a trailer that a motor vehicle pulls to transport; and
         ii. From which a food truck vendor, standing within the frame of the vehicle, prepares,
             cooks, sells, or serves food or beverages for immediate human consumption;
       b. A food cart; or
       c. An ice cream truck.
76.    “Freight Service” means an establishment primarily engaged in undertaking the
       transportation or transferring of goods, merchandise, materials, and commodities of any
       kind for compensation, and which may in turn make use of other transportation
       establishments in effecting delivery.
77.    “Garage, Private” means a detached accessory structure or portion of a main building
       designed for the parking or temporary storage of automobiles of the occupants of the
       premises.
78.    “Gardening for Personal Use” means an accessory use that includes the production of
       fruits, vegetables, spices, and other food plants for personal use. “Gardening for
       Personal Use” may include a greenhouse or plant nursery subject to accessory structure
       regulations.
79.    "Guest House" means a separate dwelling structure located on a lot with one or more
       main dwelling structures and used for housing guests or servants, and not rented, leased
       or sold separate from the rental, lease or sale of the main dwelling.
80.    “Guest Ranch” means a vacation resort offering activities (such as horseback riding)
       typical of western ranches. A “Guest Ranch” may be associated with a working ranch.
81.    “Home Occupation” means any use or activity conducted entirely within a residential
       dwelling or a legal accessory structure that is clearly incidental and secondary to the
       existing residential use and does not change the character of the residence or
       neighborhood and there is no display of any stock and the use complies with the
       applicable business license requirements.
82.    “Home Preschool” means a preschool program complying with all Utah standards and
       licensing for non-family members in an occupied dwelling unit, by residents of that
       dwelling unit, in which lessons are provided for not more than ten (10) children for each
       session of instruction. If there are eight or more children, there shall be two or more
       providers present. Sessions may not last for more than four (4) hours and may not
      overlap. Individual children may attend only one (1) preschool session in any twenty four
      (24) hour period.
83.   “Hospital” means a facility licensed by the Utah Department of Health, providing health
      services primarily for human inpatient or medical or surgical care for the sick or injured,
      and including the related facilities such laboratories, outpatient departments, training
      facilities, central service facilities, and staff offices which are integral parts of the
      facilities.
84.   “Hotel” means an establishment providing, for a fee, sleeping accommodations and
      customary lodging services, including maid service, the furnishing and upkeep of
      furniture and bed linens, and telephone and desk service. A central kitchen, dining room,
      accessory shops and services catering to the general public can be provided. Additional
      services, such as restaurants, meeting rooms, conference space and recreational
      facilities are allowed as accessory and subordinate uses.
85.   “Household Pet” means animals or fowl customarily permitted in the house and kept for
      company or pleasure, including dogs, cats, canaries, and similar pets.
86.   “Industrial Flex Space” means a one-story building containing a mixture of warehouse,
      retail, office, and light industrial uses, with at least twenty five percent (25%) of the net
      floor area dedicated to office space.
87.   “Inoperable Vehicle” means a vehicle that is not currently registered or licensed in Utah
      or in another state, or which has been dismantled or wrecked so that it is no longer
      considered street legal.
88.   “Institutional Use” means a facility that provides a public service and is operated by a
      federal, state, or local government, public or private utility, public or private school or
      college, church, public agency, or tax-exempt organization.
89.   “Junk” means any worn out, stripped, or discarded materials no longer safely useable
      for the purpose(s) for which they were manufactured, including but not necessarily
      limited to scrap metal, inoperable motor vehicles or recreational vehicles which are
      inoperable for more than sixty (60) days, and parts, construction material, household
      wastes, including garbage and discarded appliances, and yard debris.
90.   “Junkyard” means the same as “Salvage Yard.”
91.   “Kennel, Commercial” means a shelter or place where over three dogs or cats are bred,
      boarded, or trained for monetary gain.
92.   “Kennel, Private” means a shelter for or a place where over three and no more than five
      dogs and cats are bred, boarded, or trained for no monetary gain.
93.   “Laboratory, Medical or Dental” means an establishment providing biological, dental,
      medical, or optometrical laboratory and testing services.
94.   “Laboratory, Research and Development” means facilities for the investigation of natural,
      physical, or social sciences that may include engineering and product development.
95.   “Laundry Cleaning, Automatic Self-Help” means an establishment where one or more
      machines or devices are offered for public use to provide self-service dry-cleaning and/or
      clothes laundering facilities.
96.   “Laundry Cleaning, Drop Off” means an establishment where patrons may drop off items
      for dry-cleaning or laundering—which may occur on or off-site.
97.   “Liquor and/or Wine Store” means a facility for the sale of packaged liquor or wine,
      located on premises owned or leased by the state of Utah and operated by a state
      employee.
98.   “Machine Shop” means shops where lathes, presses, grinders, shapers, and other wood
      or metal working machines are used—such as blacksmith, tinsmith, welding, and sheet
      metal plumbing, heating, electrical repair, and overhaul shops.
99.   “Major Seasonal Sale” means a type of temporary use offering goods not offered year-
      round by another business on the property or is the only business on the property for
      the duration the use is occurring or occupies land in a designated park and is greater
      than eight hundred (800) square feet.
100. “Major Seasonal Use” means a type of temporary use that offers a service or activity not
     offered year-round by another business on the property or is the only business on the
     property for the duration the use is occurring or occupies land in a designated park and
     is greater than eight hundred (800) square feet.
101. “Manufacturing, Heavy” means the manufacture or compounding process of raw
     materials. These activities or processes would necessitate the storage of large volumes
     of highly flammable, toxic matter or explosive materials needed for the manufacturing
     process. These activities may involve outdoor operations as part of their manufacturing
     process.
102. “Manufacturing, Light” means an establishment primarily engaged in the production,
     fabrication, processing, or assembly of goods and materials using processes that
     ordinarily do not create noise, smoke, fumes, odors, glare, or health or safety hazards
     outside of the building or lot where such activities take place and are located entirely
     within a building. Such uses include research and development facilities and testing
     laboratories. These uses do not include refineries, rock crushers, incinerators, and
     similar uses.
103. “Meat or Poultry Processing Facility” means a building where live animals are killed and
     processed; and/or a building where meat, poultry, or eggs are cooked, smoked, or
     otherwise processed or packed but does not include a butcher shop.
104. “Medical, Urgent Care, and Dental Clinic” means the same as “Office, Medical.”
105. “Micromobility Support Infrastructure” means infrastructure, such as docking stations,
     signage, or other small-scale infrastructure, needed to support licensed micromobility
     systems. Micromobility means small, light-weight, and low-speed (less than thirty (30)
     mph) motorized vehicles that may be part of a shared-use program.
106. “Mining (Subsurface)” means mining by digging or constructing access tunnels, adits,
     ramps, or shafts and excavating directly from the natural mineral deposits exposed.
107. “Mining (Surface)” means mining by removing the overburden lying above the natural
     deposits and excavating directly from the natural deposits exposed, or by excavating
     directly from deposits lying exposed in their natural state, and includes dredge
     operations conducted in or on natural or artificially created waterways.
108. “Minor Seasonal Sale” means a type of temporary use offering goods not offered year-
     round by another business on the property, and the total area of the use takes up eight-
     hundred square feet (800 sq. ft.) or less.
109. “Minor Seasonal Use” means a type of temporary use that offers a service or activity not
     offered year-round by another business on the property and the total area of the use
     takes up eight-hundred square feet (800 sq. ft.) square feet or less.
110. “Minor Ski Resort Improvements” means construction activities associated with the
     ongoing operation and maintenance of previously approved facilities, ski runs, ski trails,
     ski lifts, and related resort appurtenances, equipment, recreational access corridors,
     pedestrian or non-motorized trails, non-snow related activities, and accessory uses, or
     vehicular maintenance roads constructed or used in connection with the construction,
     operation, or maintenance of a resort.
111. “Mobile Home” means a dwelling unit designed to be transported, after fabrication, on
     its own wheels designed and intended for permanent occupancy as an independent
     dwelling unit, upon connection to required utility systems; but which is not constructed
     in compliance with the municipality’s adopted Building, Mechanical, Electrical, and
     Plumbing Codes or the Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards
     (HUD Code). The term "mobile home" includes any structure meeting the above
     description, which is used for an office, classroom, laboratory, processing,
     manufacturing, retail sales, or other such uses.
112. “Mobile Home Park” means an area or tract of land used to accommodate two (2) or
     more mobile homes intended to be occupied as residences connected to required utility
     systems.
113. “Mobile Store” means a business that is carried out entirely from a motor vehicle or thing
     that is designed to be or is mobile such as hand pushcarts and self-propelled kiosks,
     whereby the entire inventory offered for sale is carried and contained in the motor vehicle
     or thing that is designed to be or is mobile at the time the stock is offered for sale and is
     delivered to the purchaser at the time of sale. This use excludes food trucks/mobile
     restaurants, as defined in this Chapter.
114. “Model Home/Temporary Sales Offices” means a dwelling unit, unoccupied for
     residential purposes, temporarily used for display purposes as an example of dwelling
     units available or to be available for sale or rental in a particular subdivision or other
     approved residential development. “Model Home” includes sales or rental offices for
     dwellings within the development.
115. “Mortuary or Funeral Home” means an establishment providing services such as
     preparing the human dead for burial, arranging and managing funerals, and necessary
     sales. Funeral establishments may include funeral chapels, limited caretaker facilities,
     and limited cremation facilities that do not accept remains from other funeral
     establishments. “Mortuary or Funeral Home” does not include crematoriums as a
     primary use, cemeteries, columbariums, and mausoleums.
116. “Motel” means the same as “Hotel.”
117. “Nursing Home, Convalescent Care Center” means a health care facility, other than a
     general acute or specialty hospital, constructed, licensed, and operated to provide
     patient living accommodations, 24-hour staff availability, and at least two of the following
     patient services: (a) a selection of patient care services, under the direction and
     supervision of a registered nurse, ranging from continuous medical, skilled nursing,
     psychological, or other professional therapies to intermittent health-related or
     paraprofessional personal care services; (b) a structured, supportive social living
     environment based on a professionally designed and supervised treatment plan,
     oriented to the individual's habilitation or rehabilitation needs; or (c) a supervised living
     environment that provides support, training, or assistance with individual activities of
     daily living.
118. “Office, General” means a building offering executive, administrative, professional, or
     clerical services, or a portion of a building wherein services are performed involving
     predominately operations with limited client visits and limited traffic generated by
     employees and/or clients.
119. “Office, Intensive” means a business offering executive, administrative, professional, or
     clerical services with a high level of client interaction and traffic generated; and/or a
     business that employs five (5) or more persons per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
     net leasable office space.
120. “Office, Medical” means a building used by physicians, dentists, and similar personnel
     for the treatment and examination of patients solely on an outpatient basis, provided that
     no overnight patients shall be kept on the premises.
121. “Outdoor Dining” means an area of designated size used as a seating area with tables
     and chairs for the contiguous restaurant.
122. “Outdoor Recreation, Large Scale, and including Outdoor Entertainment Locations”
     means areas or facilities that offer recreation or entertainment outside and require
     significant land or are expected to create a larger impact. Such uses include shooting
     ranges, go-carts, motor vehicle and/or motorbike tracks, golf courses, zoological parks
     and botanical gardens, amphitheaters, outdoor stages and concert venues, or similar
     activities that may create noise, dust, or other nuisances to adjoining and surrounding
     uses.
123. “Outdoor Sales Event” means a type of temporary use that uses a portion of outside
     space to temporarily sell products from a business in a building already located on the
     property with a business license.
124. “Outdoor Storage” means the same as “Accessory Outside Storage”
125. “Package Agency” means a retail liquor location operated under a contractual
     agreement with the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services, by a person other
     than the State, who is authorized by the commission to sell package liquor for
     consumption off the premises of the agency.
126. “Park and Ride” means an area or structure intended to accommodate parked vehicles
     for the general public, where commuters park their vehicles and continue to travel to
     another destination via public transit, carpool, vanpool, or bicycle. The parking lot may
     be shared with other uses or stand-alone.
127. “Pawn Shop” means any person, firm, corporation, or business that loans money on
     deposit of personal property, or deals in the purchase, exchange, or possession of
     personal property on condition of selling the same back again to the pledgor or depositor,
     or loans or advances money on personal property by taking chattel mortgage security
     thereon, and takes or receives such personal property.
128. “Personal Care Services” means an establishment primarily engaged in the provision of
     frequently or recurrently needed services of a personal nature. Typical uses include
     beauty and barbershops, custom tailoring and seamstress shops, electrolysis studios,
     portrait studios, shoe repair shops, tanning and nail salons, permanent makeup facilities,
     tattoo and body piercing establishments, and weight loss centers.
129. “Personal Instruction Services” means an establishment engaged in the provision of
     informational, instructional, personal improvement, and similar services of a professional
     nature or by a nonprofit organization. Typical uses include art and music schools, driving
     instruction, computer instruction, gymnastic and dance studios, handicraft or hobby
     instruction, and martial arts training.
130. “Planned Unit Development (PUD)” means an Integrated design for the development of
     residential, commercial, or industrial uses, or limited combinations of such uses, in which
     the density and location regulations of the district in which the development is situated
     may be varied or waived to allow flexibility and initiative in site and building design and
     location, in accordance with an approved plan and imposed requirements.
131. “Post Office” means a facility that contains service windows for mailing packages and
     letters, post office boxes, offices, vehicle storage areas, and sorting and distribution
     facilities for mail.
132. "Private Nonprofit Locker Club" means a social club, recreational, athletic, or kindred
     association incorporated under the provisions of the Utah Revised Nonprofit Corporation
     Act, which maintains or intends to maintain premises upon which liquor is or will be
     stored, consumed, or sold.
133. "Private Nonprofit Recreational Grounds And Facilities" means nonprofit recreational
     grounds and facilities operated by an association incorporated under the provisions of
     the Utah Revised Nonprofit Corporation Act or a corporate sole.
134. “Private Residential Tennis Court/Sports Court” means a recreation court requiring a
     base surface with a gross square footage of four hundred square feet or more, permitted
     as an accessory use to and on the same lot as a single-family residential dwelling.
135. “Private Swimming Pool” means any structure or container holding water to a depth of
     eighteen inches (18") or greater and having either a diameter or diagonal measurement
      of ten feet (10’) or greater, permitted as an accessory use to and on the same lot as a
      single-family residential dwelling.
136. “Producer” means a person or entity that raises or produces farm products on land that
     the person or entity farms and owns, rents, or leases.
137. “Protective Housing” means a facility operated, licensed, or contracted by a
     governmental entity, or operated by a charitable, nonprofit organization, where, for no
     compensation, temporary, protective housing is provided to: (1) abused or neglected
     children awaiting placement in foster care; (2) pregnant or parenting teens; (3) victims
     of sexual abuse; or (4) victims of domestic abuse.
138. “Public Parks” means parks that are maintained by a public agency.
139. “Public Service Training Facility” means an establishment for training state and local law
     enforcement, fire safety, national guard, transit personnel, or other public service
     personnel and accessory facilities including but not limited to dining and overnight
     accommodations, classrooms, indoor shooting ranges, auto test tracks, and fire
     suppression simulations.
140. "Public Use" means a use operated exclusively by a public body, or quasi-public body,
     such use having the purpose of serving the public health, safety, or general welfare, and
     including uses such as public schools, parks, playgrounds and other recreational
     facilities, government and public utility administrative offices, fire stations, police
     stations, and facilities that are part of the local service delivery system for public utilities.
     "Public Use" does not include public utility production, storage, and treatment facilities
     such as power plants, refineries, natural gas processing and storage plants, water
     treatment plants, or sewage treatment facilities.
141. “Public Utility, Major” means structures that house operations for public utilities like, but
     not limited to, power generation plants, electrical switching stations, primary substations,
     refuse collection and disposal facilities, and water and wastewater treatment facilities
     and similar facilities.
142. “Public Utility, Minor” means local utility structures that are necessary for a specific
     development or service like, but not limited to, poles and lines.
143. “Public Utility” includes every railroad corporation, gas corporation, electrical
     corporation, distribution electrical cooperative, wholesale electrical cooperative,
     telephone corporation, telegraph corporation, water corporation, sewerage corporation,
     heat corporation, and independent energy producer not described in Utah Code § 54-2-
     201 where the service is performed for, or the commodity delivered to, the public
     generally, or in the case of a gas corporation or electrical corporation where the gas or
     electricity is sold or furnished to any member or consumers within the state for domestic,
     commercial, or industrial use.
144. “Rail Transit Mixed-Use” means a use that allows rail-oriented development that
     combines different land uses within a single development, tract of land, building, or
     structure. Its purpose is to encourage development that is high quality, human-scale,
     and pedestrian-friendly, while creating a variety of complementary and integrated uses,
     such as but not limited to, residential, office, manufacturing, retail, public, or
     entertainment, in a compact, walkable, urban form.
145. “Reception Hall, Reception Center” means a room or building for the purpose of hosting
     a party, banquet, wedding, or other reception or social event. Such halls are often found
     within pubs, clubs, hotels, or restaurants.
146. “Recreation Facility, Commercial” means a centrally or otherwise appropriately located
     place designed and equipped for the conduct of sports, informal recreation and/or
     leisure-time activities operated as a business on private or public property and open to
     the public for a fee.
147. “Recreation Facility, Private” means a centrally or otherwise appropriately located place
     designed and equipped for the conduct of sports, informal recreation and/or leisure-time
     activities operated on private property and not open to the public, including recreation
     facilities owned by a homeowners' or property owners' association for private use.
148. “Recreation Facility, Public” means a centrally or otherwise appropriately located place
     designed and equipped for the conduct of sports, informal recreation and/or leisure-time
     activities operated by a public agency and open to the public with or without a fee.
149. “Recycling Processing Facility” means a building or enclosed space for the collection
     and processing of recyclable materials. “Processing” means the preparation of material
     for efficient shipment, or to an end user’s specifications, by such means as baling,
     briquetting, compacting, flattening, grinding, crushing, shredding, mechanical sorting,
     cleaning, and re-manufacturing.
150. “Rehabilitation/Treatment Facilities” means a facility licensed by or contracted by the
     State of Utah to provide temporary occupancy and supervision of adults or juveniles in
     order to provide rehabilitation, treatment, or counseling services. Without limitation, such
     services may include rehabilitation, treatment, counseling, or assessment and
     evaluation services related to delinquent behavior, alcohol and drug abuse, sex
     offenders, sexual abuse, or mental health. Associated education services may also be
     provided to juvenile occupants. “Rehabilitation/Treatment Facilities” does not include
     residential facilities for the elderly or persons with disabilities.
151. "Resource Recycling Collection Point" means a portable structure, enclosed bin, trailer,
     or reverse vending machine where recyclable material (aluminum cans, glass, paper,
     etc.) is exchanged for money or deposited as a donation.
152. “Reiki” means a business devoted primarily to Reiki healing, or any other system that
     has elements of the following. The practitioner, trained to access and serve as a channel
     for a sacred life force, places his or her hands on or just above the client's body in order
     to activate healing energy within receptive points on the body. The practitioner's hands
     move progressively with a passive touch through various positions on the body,
     remaining in each position for a period of time. As a harmonic flow of energy is
     strengthened, within the client and practitioner, healing occurs through the return of
     physical, mental, and spiritual balance. For purposes of this Title, a Reiki business may
     not include Reiki healing, or similar system, which are performed in a hospital or medical
     clinic.
153. “Residential Facility for Elderly Persons” means a dwelling unit owned by a resident
     thereof or an immediate family member of a resident, or for which the title has been
     placed in trust for a resident; and is voluntarily occupied on a twenty-four (24) hour per
     day basis by eight (8) or fewer elderly persons in a family-type arrangement. A
     "residential facility for elderly persons" does not include any facility: (1) operated as a
     business; provided that such facility may not be considered to be operated as a business
     solely because a fee is charged for food or for actual and necessary costs of operation
     and maintenance of the facility; (2) where persons are placed: (a) For alcoholism or drug
     abuse treatment; or (b) as part of, or in lieu of, confinement, rehabilitation, or treatment
     in a correctional facility which is: (i) a health care facility as defined by Utah Code or
     successor law, or (ii) a residential facility for persons with a disability.
154. “Residential Facility for Persons with a Disability” means a residence: (1) in which more
     than one person with a disability resides; and (a) which is licensed or certified by the
     Department of Human Services under Utah Code Title 62A, Chapter 2, Licensure of
     Programs and Facilities; or (b) which is licensed or certified by the Department of Health
     under Utah Code Title 26, Chapter 21, Health Care Facility Licensing and Inspection
     Act.
155. “Residential Keeping of Chickens or Ducks” means the keeping of a small number of
     domesticated hens and/or ducks on a lot with a single-family dwelling for personal use
     only, subject to the standards and requirements of this Title, Salt Lake County Animal
     Services, and Salt Lake County Health Department that ensure that domesticated hens
     and ducks do not adversely impact the neighborhood surrounding the property on which
     the domestic fowl are kept.
156. “Resort” means a place offering amenities for recreation and relaxation in addition to
     lodging and meals to transient vacationers. May involve multiple, compatible uses of the
     land, such as open space, agriculture, and lodging.
157. “Restaurant, Fast Food” means a building or facility that sells food and beverages
     primarily over a counter, rather than by waitress or waiter; packages its’ food in wrappers,
     boxes, or cartons regardless if the food is consumed on or off the restaurant premises;
     and typically provides a drive through/drive-up facility.
158. “Restaurant, Sit-Down with or Without Alcohol” means a building or facility for the
     preparation, retail sale, and on-site consumption of food and non-alcoholic and/or
     alcoholic beverages.
159. “Retail and Service Commercial” means a business primarily engaged in the sale or
     rental of goods, merchandise, or services directly to the consumer, and includes no
     outdoor storage. These uses do not include sexually oriented businesses, retail tobacco
     specialty stores, check cashing, pawn shops, vehicle or large equipment rental, sales,
     repair, or assembly. Uses include department, grocery, variety and drug stores; art
     galleries; bakeries; jewelry stores; florists; auto parts stores; business and social
     services; and similar uses. These uses may include twenty-four-hour uses and drive-up
     windows subject to this Title.
160. “Retail Shops or Galleries where Primary Product is Produced On-Site" means
     establishments (not exceeding five thousand square feet (5,000 sq.ft.) engaged in the
     selling of goods where the primary product is produced on-site. This definition is limited
     to small-scale uses but can include bakeries, confectionaries, nut shops, frame shops,
     restored furniture, cardmaking shops, jewelry-making stores, photo galleries, art
     galleries, and pottery studios. This definition also includes ‘painting with a twist’, ‘paint
     nite’, paint-your-own-ceramics businesses, and similar uses. A room or building for the
     display or sale of works of art, including space for the artist to create displayed work.
161. “Retail Tobacco Specialty Business” means a commercial establishment in which: (a)
     the sales of tobacco products, electronic cigarette products, and nicotine products
     account for more than thirty five (35%) of the total quarterly gross receipts for the
     establishment; (b) twenty (20%) or more of the public retail floor space is allocated to
     the offer, display, or storage of tobacco products, electronic cigarette products, or
     nicotine products; (c) twenty (20%) or more of the total shelf space is allocated to the
     offer, display, or storage of tobacco products, electronic cigarette products, or nicotine
     products; (d) the commercial establishment holds itself out as a retail tobacco specialty
     business and causes a reasonable person to believe the commercial establishment is a
     retail tobacco specialty business; (e) any flavored electronic cigarette product is sold; or
     (f) the retail space features a self-service display for tobacco products, electronic
     cigarette products, or nicotine products. (Utah Code 10-8-§41.6)
162. “Salvage Yard” means a place where scrap, waste, discarded, or salvaged materials is
     brought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, or stored, including
     auto wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards, and places or yards for
     storage of salvage, house wrecking, and structural steel materials and equipment; but
     not including such places where such uses are conducted entirely within a completely
     enclosed building or yard, and not including pawnshops and establishments for the sale,
     purchase or storage of used furniture and household equipment, used cars in operable
     condition, or salvaged materials incidental to manufacturing operations conducted on
     the premises.
163. “School, Charter” means (i) an operating charter school; (ii) a charter school applicant
     that has its application approved by a charter school authorizer in accordance with Utah
     Code, Title 53G, Chapter 5, Part 3, Charter School Authorization; or (iii) an entity that is
     working on behalf of a charter school or approved charter applicant to develop or
     construct a charter school building. School, Charter does not include a therapeutic
     school.
164. “Self-Service Fuel Station” means a location where flammable or combustible liquids or
     gases are stored and dispensed from fixed equipment into the fuel tanks of motor
     vehicles. Such establishment may offer the retail sale of convenience items. “Self-
     Service Fuel Station” specifically excludes and does not allow any servicing, repair or
     maintenance of motor vehicles, trailers, and similar mechanical equipment, including
     engine, brake, muffler, tire repair, lubrication, and engine tune-up. “Self Service Fuel
     Station” may be combined with “Vehicle and Equipment Repair, Minor” when the
     applicable zone allows both uses. Does not include “Truck Stop and Service Facilities.”
165. “Self-Service Storage Facilities, Enclosed” means structures, commonly referred to as
     storage units, containing separate enclosed, individual and private storage spaces of
     varying sizes leased or rented on individual leases for varying periods of time. Such
     facilities are to be used for dead storage only. The following activities are prohibited
     within any self-storage enclosed storage facility: (1) commercial, wholesale or retail
     sales, or miscellaneous or garage sales; (2) the servicing, repair, or fabrication of motor
     vehicles, boats, trailers, small engine equipment, or similar equipment; (3) the operation
     of power tools, spray painting equipment, compressors, welding equipment, kilns, or
     similar equipment; (4) the establishment of a transfer business; and (5) Any use that is
     noxious or offensive because of odors, dust, noise, or vibrations.
166. “Self-Service Storage Facilities, Outdoor” means the use of any lot, portion of a lot, or
     tract of land for outside storage of operative automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles,
     boats, trailers, or non-motorized storage, containing separate, individual and private
     storage spaces of varying sizes leased or rented on individual leases for varying periods
     of time. The following activities are prohibited within any self-storage outside storage
     facility: (1) commercial, wholesale or retail sales, or miscellaneous or garage sales; (2)
     the servicing, repair, or fabrication of motor vehicles, boats, trailers, small engine
     equipment, or similar equipment; (3) the establishment of a transfer business; (4)
     junkyard or impound yard; (5) storage of non-motorized storage may not exceed the
     height of the screened fence; and (6) any use that is noxious or offensive because of
     odors, dust, noise, or vibrations.
167. “Sexually Oriented Business or Activity” means adult arcades, adult bookstores, adult
     novelty stores, adult video stores, adult cabarets, or adult entertainment out-call services
     in the form of semi-nude dancing or exhibitions, adult motion picture theater, adult
     theater, seminude model studios, or sexual encounter establishments.
168. “Shared Mobility Device” means bicycles and motor-assisted scooters operated by a
     shared mobility device system.
169. “Shared Mobility Device System” means any transportation service that involves the
     commercial use of shared mobility devices by users, either concurrently or sequentially
     after one another.
170. “Shopping Center” means a group of three or more commercial establishments that are
     planned, developed, and managed as a unit with common areas for off-street parking
     and landscaping provided on the properties.
171. "Short-Term Rental" means a residential unit or any portion of a residential unit that the
     owner of record or the lessee of the residential unit offers for occupancy for fewer than
     thirty (30) consecutive days.
172. “Sidewalk Displays and Sidewalk Cafes” means an accessory use that allows for the
     spillover of seating and/or sales displays onto the sidewalk in front of an existing
     business subject to limitations. “Sidewalk Café” means a restaurant with tables on the
     sidewalk in front or on the side of the premises. “Sidewalk Display” means the outdoor
     display of merchandise for sale by a business use.
173. “Ski Resort” means a ski area that also includes sales, rentals, and services of related
     equipment and accessories, eating places, residences, and hotels and motels.
174. “Solar Energy System, Accessory” means a roof-mounted, wall mounted, or ground
     mounted panel, the primary purpose of which is to provide for the collection, inversion,
     storage, and distribution of solar energy for electricity generation, space heating, space
     cooling, or water heating of buildings located on the same property.
175. “Solar Energy System, Commercial” means a solar array meant for commercial
     production of energy.
176. “Solar Evaporation Pond for the Processing of Salt” means the recovery of minerals in
     solution through natural evaporation and subsequent harvesting.
177. “Storage – Hazardous Materials” means the storage of any item or chemical which is a
     health or physical hazard, or can cause harm to people, plants, or animals when
     released by spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging,
     injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing into the environment.
178. “Storage Yard” means the location of goods, wares, merchandise, commodities,
     equipment, materials, or any other item outside of a completely enclosed building for a
     continuous period longer than twenty-four (24) hours when such storage is a primary
     characteristic of a permitted use or constitutes more than fifteen percent (15%) of the lot
     area. The presence of hazardous materials, junk, junk cars, or debris not usually
     appurtenant to permitted on-site uses is prohibited. Storage yards shall be screened
     from public view by a minimum six-foot (6') high masonry fence and, when outdoor
     storage occurs in a front yard, side yard, or any other location within the public view,
     additional screening of a height and material determined by the Planning Commission.
     For the purposes of this Title, construction yards, lumber yards, and like uses are
     considered to be storage yards as regulated herein. Compare with "accessory outdoor
     storage".
179. "Sportsman's Kennel" means a kennel for the keeping of three to five (5) dogs that has
     a valid permit from the department of animal services and is located on a lot of at least
     one acre.
180. "Stable, Private" means a detached accessory structure for the keeping of horses owned
     by the occupants of the premises, and not kept for remuneration, hire, or sale.
181. "Stable, Public" means a stable other than a private stable.
182. “Swap Meets and Flea Markets” means a market operating for the sale or exchange of
     merchandise at retail by many sellers within a drive-in theater or enclosed building. This
     does not include garage sales.
183. “Tavern” means the same as “Bar.”
184. “Temporary Construction Office” means a temporary building or structure used as a
     construction office for a project located on the same site during its construction. A
     temporary construction office shall be removed from the property prior to the final
     certificate of occupancy being issued on the building or project.
185. “Temporary Sale, Farm Products” means a type of temporary use that is less than six
     hundred square feet (600 sq. ft.) and at least seventy five percent (75%) of the products
     sold are farm products or value-added farm products.
186. “Temporary Use” means any use that does not continue more than one hundred twenty
     (120) days out of the year.
187. “Temporary Use, Weekly or Weekly Temporary Use means any use occurs not more
     than two days a week and not more than one hundred twenty (120) days out of the year.
188. “Temporary Use, Inside” means a use on a property proposed to be established for a
     maximum period of one hundred and twenty (120) days or use being discontinued after
     the expiration of one hundred and twenty (120) days and conducted in compliance with
     all the requirements of this Title that is inside a permanent building.
189. "Theaters and Concert Halls (Indoor)” means buildings that contain screens, stages, or
     other platforms around which patrons gather to experience film, theater, and other
     performances. Concessions may be allowed as an accessory use. Such uses include
     concert halls, play theaters, cinemas, comedy clubs, operas, and orchestra and
     symphony halls. Does not include outdoor theaters and concert halls (see “Outdoor
     Recreation, Large Scale, and including Outdoor Entertainment Locations”).
190. “Therapeutic School” means a residential group living facility: (a) for four or more
     individuals that are not related to the owner of the facility or the primary service provider
     of the facility; (b) that serves students who have a history of failing to function at home,
     in a public school, or in a nonresidential private school; and (c) that offers room and
     board, and an academic education integrated with (i) specialized structure and
     supervision or (ii) services or treatment related to a disability, emotional development,
     behavioral development, familial development, or social development. (Utah Code §
     62A-2-101)
191. “Tiny Home” means a dwelling less than four hundred square feet (400 sq. ft.) in size,
     not including loft space, that meets building code requirements and is on a permanent
     foundation. A tiny home is either a single-family dwelling or an accessory dwelling unit.
     A tiny home used as the primary residential use on a lot or parcel is a single-family
     dwelling for the purposes of this ordinance. A tiny home used as an accessory dwelling
     is subject to the same restrictions as any other accessory dwelling unit.
192. “Towing Services and Impound Lots” means the temporary storage of vehicles that have
     been towed, carried, hauled, or pushed from public to private property for impoundment
     in a public or private impound yard.
193. “Transitional Housing” means a building or facility owned, operated, or contracted by a
     governmental entity or a charitable, nonprofit organization that provide free temporary
     housing to homeless persons for at least thirty (30) days while they obtain work, job
     skills, or otherwise take steps to stabilize their circumstances. Transitional Housing
     Facilities do not include homeless shelters, dwelling units provided to a family for more
     than thirty (30) days as part of a transitional housing program, or residential facilities for
     elderly persons or persons with disabilities.
194. “Transmission Line/Right of Way (Major)” means an electric power, gas, or petroleum
     transmission facility with the required right-of-way designed to provide for the location of
     transmission lines or facilities to operate at voltages of 140,000 volts (140 kV) or greater
     or eight inches (8) in diameter and that provides electrical, gas, or petroleum products
     transmission and found by the municipality to conform to the General Plan, or has been
     considered by the Planning Commission and Council and a General Plan amendment
     has been approved.
195. “Transmission Line/Right of Way (Minor)” means an electric power, gas, or petroleum
     transmission facility with the required right-of-way designed to provide for the location of
     transmission lines or facilities to operate at voltages less than 140,000 volts (140 kV) or
     less than eight inches (8) in diameter and that provides electrical, gas, or petroleum
     products transmission and found by the municipality to conform to the General Plan, or
     has been considered by the Planning Commission and Council and a General Plan
     amendment has been approved.
196. “Truck Stop and Service Facilities” means facilities intended to provide services to the
     trucking industry, including but not limited to, dispensing of fuel, servicing, repair,
     automated washes, and overnight parking. The facilities may also include overnight
     accommodations, showers, or restaurant facilities primarily for the use of truck crews.
     Such establishment may offer the retail sale of convenience items.
197. “Twin Home” means the same as “Dwelling, Two Family.”
198. "Value-added Farm Products” means any product processed by a producer from a farm
     product.
199. “Vertical Indoor Agriculture” means growing crops in vertically stacked layers indoors,
     often incorporating controlled-environment agricultural techniques and soilless farming
     techniques such as hydroponics, aquaponics, or aeroponics.
200. “Vehicle Assembly” means a business where finished vehicle-related parts are put
     together to develop a final product.
201. “Vehicle and Equipment Repair, Commercial and Industrial” means the repair and
     service of commercial vehicles and trailers with a payload capacity of more than eight
     thousand five hundred (8,500) pounds as well as industrial or other heavy equipment.
     Typical uses include semi-trailer truck repair, and the repair of bulldozers, graders, dump
     trucks, cement mixers, and similar heavy industrial and construction equipment.
202. “Vehicle and Equipment Repair, Major” means an establishment primarily engaged in
     the major repair of motor vehicles or equipment. Typical uses include major auto repair
     such as the removal of engines and transmissions, rebuilding of engines and
     transmissions, repair of the internal components, repair or removal of differentials or
     axles, body work and paint. “Vehicle and Equipment Repair, Major” may also include
     uses that are often accessory to businesses engaged in the repair of vehicles such as
     offices, part sales, storage of merchandise, and vehicle storage when such vehicle
     storage is fully and adequately screened. “Vehicle and Equipment Repair, Major” does
     not include repair and service of commercial vehicles and trailers with a payload capacity
     of more than eight thousand five hundred (8,500) pounds, industrial or other heavy
     equipment, “vehicle assembly”, “manufacturing use”, auto dismantling or wrecking,
     salvage, “junkyards”, or similar uses.
203. “Vehicle and Equipment Repair, Minor” means an establishment providing motor vehicle
     repair or maintenance services and conducted entirely within completely enclosed
     buildings and may include the retail sale of fuels, lubricants, and other supplies for motor
     vehicles. Typical uses include businesses engaged in the following activities: electronic
     tune-ups, brake repairs (including drum turning), air conditioning repairs, auto detailing,
     generator and starter repairs, muffler and other minor underbody repair, frontend
     alignments, battery recharging, lubrication, and other similar repairs. Vehicle and
     Equipment Repair (Minor) also includes sales, repair and installation of minor parts and
     accessories such as tires, batteries, windshield wipers, hoses, windows, etc. Vehicle
     and Equipment Repair (Minor) does not include paint and body shops, or other activities
     associated with Vehicle and Equipment Repair (Major), auto dismantling or wrecking,
     salvage, junkyards, and similar uses.
204. “Vehicle Rental” means a business primarily engaged in the rental of vehicles.
205. “Vehicle Sales and Service” means the use of any building, land area, or other premises
     for the display and sale or lease of more than three (3) new or used vehicles, and
     including outside storage of inventory, indoor vehicle part and accessory sales, any
     warranty repair work, and other repair service conducted as an accessory use. “Vehicle
     Sales and Service” includes the sale or lease of new or used boats, cars, light trucks,
     motorcycles, off-road vehicles, camp trailers, recreational vehicles, motor homes, and
     utility or box trailers with a payload capacity of less than eight thousand five hundred
     (8,500) pounds. “Vehicle Sales and Service” does not include the sale or lease of semi-
     trailer trucks, semi-trailers, or utility or box trailers with a payload capacity of over five
     thousand (5,000) pounds.
206. “Vehicle Sales and Service, Commercial Vehicles and Trailers” includes the sale or lease
     of semi-trailer trucks, semi-trailers, or utility or box trailers with a payload capacity of
     more than eight thousand five hundred (8,500) pounds. “Vehicle Sales and Service,
     Commercial Vehicles and Trailers” includes outside storage of inventory, indoor vehicle
     part and accessory sales, any warranty repair work, and other repair services conducted
     as an accessory use.
207. “Vehicle Sales, Small Dealership” means a business specializing in the sale of a limited
     number of new and/or used vehicles, with no more than three (3) vehicles displayed
     outside at any one time and with no more than a total of eight (8) vehicles stored on-site
     at any given time and licensed as required by the State of Utah. A small dealership may
     be permitted as an accessory use to a related business on the same property and under
     the same ownership.
208. “Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations” means critical infrastructure
     materials operations operating in accordance with a legal nonconforming use or a permit
     issued by the municipality that existed or was conducted or otherwise engaged in before:
     a. A political subdivision prohibits, restricts, or otherwise limits the critical infrastructure
        materials operations; and
     b. January 1, 2019.
209. “Warehouse and Distribution Facilities” means buildings used primarily for the inside
     storage and distribution of goods and materials, which include land and buildings used
     as a relay station for the transfer of goods from one vehicle or party to another, and the
     parking and storage of tractor and/or other trailer units.
210. “Water Pumping Plant and Reservoir” means a natural or artificial water storage basin
     with a pumping station to distribute potable or irrigation water.
211. “Water Treatment Facility” means the facility or facilities within the water supply system
     which can alter the physical, chemical, or bacteriological quality of the water.
212. “Wind Energy System, Accessory” means a wind energy system that is accessory to the
     main use and is designed to power only the site on which it is constructed.
213. “Wind Energy System, Commercial” means a wind energy system consisting of one or
     more wind turbines for commercial generation.
                                              EXHIBIT B
19.02.010 Title
This Title is known as "The Uniform Zoning Ordinance of Magna City" and is referred to herein as
“the Ordinance”, “this Ordinance,” or Magna Zoning Ordinance.”
19.02.020 Organization
The Uniform Zoning Ordinance of Magna City is organized into five articles:
A. Article I, “General Provisions,” comprising Chapters 19.02 – 19.10, addresses:
   1. The organization and purpose of the Ordinance, together with definitions and enforcement
      procedures; and
   2. The criteria for addressing nonconforming uses, as well as procedures for analyzing
      takings.
B. Article II, “Administration,” comprising Chapters 19.12 – 19.20, addresses:
   1. The process for applying for various types of land use and land development permits, and
      the procedures for amending the General Plan, amending the Ordinance, and petitioning
      for zone changes;
   2. The roles of each administrative body in the land use and development process; and
   3. The administrative processes relating to planned unit developments.
C. Article III, “Zone Regulations,” comprising Chapters 19.22 – 19.40, addresses the regulations
   for each zone, including the permitted or conditional land uses and densities that are allowed
   in each zone.
D. Article IV, “Specific and Temporary Use Standards,” comprising Chapters 19.42 – 19.44,
   addresses standards that are specific to the activity or use of a given property, including
   standards for long-term as well as temporary uses.
E. Article V, “Development Standards,” comprising Chapters 19.46 – 19.64, addresses:
   1. General standards applicable to the development of land;
   2. Standards particular to a development district or overlay zone; and
   3. Infrastructure, site design, signs, additional building standards (mass, height, setbacks),
      and natural conditions (such as slope, soils, drainage, etc.).
19.02.030 Purpose
The Ordinance is intended to promote the health, safety, morals, order, prosperity and welfare of
the inhabitants of Magna City which includes:
A. Reducing congestion on the streets and roads;
B. Securing safety from fire and other dangers;
C. Protecting the quality of light and air;
D. Classifying land uses, development, and utilization;
E. Protecting the tax base;
F. Securing efficiency in governmental expenditures;
G. Fostering agriculture and economic development;
H. Protecting both urban and nonurban development; and
I.   Balancing private property rights with public purposes.
19.02.40 Applicability
A. Territorial Application. All land and parcels of real property within the jurisdictional limits of
   Magna City is covered by the provisions of this Ordinance.
B. General Applicability.
     1. Except if specific exemptions have been granted for nonconforming uses, noncomplying
        structures, or lots of record, the regulations contained in this Ordinance apply to all uses,
        structures, and parcels of real property, including those recorded prior to the enactment of
        this Ordinance.
     2. Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a lot, as defined in this Ordinance.
        Except for dwelling groups, guest houses and approved detached accessory dwelling
        units, not more than one (1) dwelling structure may occupy (1) one lot.
C. General Prohibition. No portion or whole of any structure or land may be used, occupied,
   constructed, moved, enlarged, or structurally altered except as provided by this Ordinance.
   Land needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other requirements of this
   Title for a lot or building may not be sold or conveyed away from such lot or building.
D. Private Agreements. This Ordinance is not intended to enforce any private agreement or
   covenant. If this Ordinance is more restrictive than a private agreement or covenant, this
   Ordinance prevails.
E. Other Laws and Regulations. This Ordinance controls over less restrictive State or municipal
   statutes, ordinances or regulations.
19.10.010 Findings and Purpose.
The Council finds that:

A. Enactment of zoning and other land development regulations within Magna City is necessary
   to protect the health, welfare and safety of the residents of Magna City.
B. When an owner of private property claims that the enforcement of any municipal land use
   regulation constitutes an unconstitutional taking of private property, it is in Magna City’s best
   interests to have established procedures for obtaining relevant information for analyzing and
   resolving such claims.
19.10.030 Procedures to Determine Takings Claim.
D. Conduct of the Hearing.

      1. Rules of Procedure. The hearing shall be conducted according to the requirements of the
         rules of procedure adopted by the Council for such hearings.
      2. Burden of Proof. The petitioner shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of
         the evidence that the final decision that is the subject of the takings relief petition
         constitutes an unconstitutional taking.
      3. Municipality Response. Magna City shall have the right to respond to any allegations
         provided by the petitioner and present evidence at the hearing.
                  CHAPTER 19.14 ZONES, ZONING MAP, AND BOUNDARIES
19.14.010 Zones Established.
For the purpose of this Title, Magna City is divided into classes of zones, as follows:
R-1-3           Single family residential zone
R-1-4           Single family residential zone
R-1-5           Single family residential zone
R-1-6           Single family residential zone
R-1-7           Single family residential zone
R-1-8           Single family residential zone
R-1-10          Single family residential zone
R-1-21          Single family residential zone
R-2-6.5         Medium density residential zone
R-4-8.5         Medium density residential zone
R-M             High density residential zone
RMH             Mobile home residential zone
A-1             Agricultural zone
A-20            Agricultural zone
DH              Downtown Historic zone
NMU             Neighborhood Mixed Use zone
CMU             Corridor Mixed Use zone
C-1             Commercial zone
C-V             Commercial zone
C-2             Commercial zone
C-3            Commercial zone
M-1            Manufacturing zone - flex
M-2            Manufacturing zone - heavy
P-C            Planned Community zone
P-R            Parks and Recreation zone
OS             Natural Open Space Zone
AOZ            Airport Overlay Zone
19.14.020 Zoning Maps.
Each of the sections of Magna City which are zoned by this Title are shown on the maps on file
with Planning and Development Services, and such maps are made by this reference, as such, a
part of this Title as if fully described and detailed herein. Said maps may be in an electronic or
Geographic Information System (GIS) format. Amendments to the zoning map shall follow the
process outlined in Section 19.16.080 of this Title.
19.14.030 Filing of This Title and Zoning Maps.
This Title and the maps shall be filed in the custody of the municipal clerk, and may be examined
by the public subject to any reasonable regulations established by the municipal clerk.
19.14.040 Boundary Location Rules.
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any zone, the following rules shall apply:

A. Wherever the zone boundary is indicated as being approximately upon the centerline of a
   street, alley or block, or along a property line, then, unless otherwise definitely indicated on
   the map, the centerline of the street, alley or block, or such property line, shall be construed
   to be the boundary of the zone;
B. Whenever such boundary line of such zone is indicated as being approximately at the line of
   any river, irrigation canal or other waterway or railroad right-of-way, or public park, or other
   public land, or any section line, then in such case the center of the stream, canal or waterway,
   or of the railroad right-of-way, or the boundary line of such public land or such section line
   shall be deemed to be the boundary of the zone; and
C. If the application of the above rules does not clarify the zone boundary location, the Land Use
   Hearing Officer shall interpret the map.
19.14.050 Zoning of Annexed Areas.
Properties that are annexed into Magna City shall be given a zoning designation by action of the
Council at the time of annexation. The Council shall be guided by the general plan and by the
criteria set forth in Table 19.16-010 in zoning the subject property. Annexations of multiple parcels
may result in more than one zone applying to the annexation area; however, except in the case
of overlay zones, only one zone may apply to each parcel.
19.30.020 Establishment of Medium and High-Density Residential Zones.
To anticipate and respond to the changing needs of the municipality and implement housing
choice and walkability concepts included in the adopted General Plan, including the vision of the
Moderate Income Housing Opportunities Character Area, Magna City establishes the following
zones:

A. Two-Family Residential Zones (R-2). The R-2 Zones are intended to promote medium-density
   middle housing options between one and two (1-2) units per building. Multiple buildings may
   be located on one lot; however, lots with multiple buildings are encouraged to establish a PUD
   as part of the development process.
B. Four-Family Residential Zones (R-4). The R-4 Zones are intended to promote medium-density
   middle housing options between one and four (1-4) units per building. Multiple buildings may
   be located on one lot; however, lots with multiple buildings are encouraged to establish a PUD
   as part of the development process. Medium-density housing will serve as a transition
   between higher-density commercial, residential, or mixed-used and low-density residential or
   single-family.
C. Multi-Family Residential Zone (RM). The RM Zone is intended to promote medium and high-
   density residential housing of greater than four (4) units. Development projects in this zone
   should accommodate multi-modal transportation opportunities, open space, amenities for
   units, limited commercial uses, and provide buffering between high-density and low-density
   housing.
19.34.020 Establishment of Manufacturing Zones.
To anticipate and respond to the changing needs of our community and implement industrial and
employment center concepts included in the adopted General Plan, Magna City establishes the
following zones:

A. Manufacturing Zone – Flex (M-1). The M-1 Zone is intended to provide a flexible mix of
   industrial uses, including light manufacturing, warehousing, wholesale, and accessory uses
   that contribute to employee wellbeing and quality development.
B. Manufacturing Zone – Heavy (M-2). The M-2 Zone is reserved for areas of the municipality
   that support more intense industrial uses, such as distribution centers, resource processing,
   and energy production. Development standards are intended to minimize adverse impacts of
   these uses and protect the surrounding environment.
19.56.010 Authorization and Findings.

A. Statutory Authorization.

   1. The Legislature of the State of Utah has in Utah Code § 10-3-701 delegated the
      responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the
      public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Magna City Council
      does ordain as follows:
   2. Magna City elects to comply with the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Act of
      1968 (P.L. 90-488, as amended). The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) is a
      voluntary program administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA),
       a component of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and Magna City's community
       officials have elected to join the program, participate, and enforce this Flood Damage
       Prevention Ordinance and the requirements and regulations of the NFIP. The NFIP,
       established in the aforesaid act, provides that areas of Magna having a special flood
       hazard be identified by FEMA, and that floodplain management measures be applied in
       such flood hazard areas. Furthermore, Magna City may elect to administer the Flood
       Damage Prevention Ordinance to areas not identified as Special Flood Hazard Areas
       (SFHAs) by FEMA on the community's effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), if the
       community has documentation to support that there is an inherent risk of flooding in such
       areas.

B. Findings of Fact.

   1. The flood hazard areas of Magna are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss
      of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
      services, and extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which
      adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   2. These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains which
      cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazards
      areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous to other lands because they are
      inadequately elevated, floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   3. These potential flood losses are caused by:
       a. The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains that are known to cause increases
          in flood heights and velocities;
       b. The occupancy of flood hazard areas by structures vulnerable to floods because they
          are inadequately elevated or otherwise unprotected from flood damages; and
       c. Uses deemed unsuitable for floodplain areas or that do not account for the increased
          flood risk.
19.56.040 General Provisions.

A. Lands to Which This Chapter Applies. This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood
   hazards within the jurisdiction of Magna City.
B. Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard. The areas of special flood hazard
   identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a scientific and engineering
   report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study for Salt Lake County and Incorporated
   Communities," dated November 19, 2021, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps
   (FIRMs), and any revisions thereto are hereby automatically adopted by reference and
   declared to be a part of this chapter.
C. Establishment of Development Permit. A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required to
   ensure conformance with the provisions of this Chapter.
D. Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use changed
   without full compliance with the terms of this Chapter and other applicable regulations.
E. Abrogation and Greater Restrictions. This Chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or
   impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this Chapter
   and another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever
   imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
F. Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this Chapter, all provisions shall be:
   1. Considered as minimum requirements;
   2. Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   3. Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under State statutes.
G. Warning and Disclaimer of Liability.
   1. The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
      regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger
      floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade
      or natural causes.
   2. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses
      permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter may
      not create liability on the part of Magna City, any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal
      Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
      chapter, or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
19.56.080 Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction.

C. Specific Standards. In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
   been provided as set forth in this chapter, the following standards are required:

   4. Enclosures below the BFE. Enclosures below the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) may only
      be used for building access, vehicle parking, and storage. Certification and documentation
      from a professional, licensed engineer is required if the structure’s lowest floor is built
      below the BFE. Applicant shall enter into a maintenance and nonconversion agreement
      with Magna City that it will maintain the improvements outlined in this paragraph and not
      modify or convert them to uses other than approved uses.
19.58.010 Purpose of Provisions.
The purpose of the geologic hazards ordinance is to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens of Magna, and minimize the potential adverse effects of geologic hazards
to public health, safety and property by encouraging wise land use in geologically hazardous
areas.
19.58.020 Definitions.
As used in this chapter, the following terms have the following meanings:
"Active Fault" means a fault displaying evidence of greater than four inches (4”) of displacement
along one or more of its traces during Holocene time (about ten thousand (10,000) years ago to
the present).
"Avalanche" means a large mass of snow, ice, and debris in swift motion down a slope; includes
both wet and dry snow avalanches.
"Buildable Area" means that portion of a site where an approved engineering geology and/or
geotechnical report, as required, has indicated is not impacted by geologic hazards, or concluded
that the identified hazards can be mitigated to a level where risk to human life and property are
reduced to an acceptable and reasonable level, and where structures may be safely sited.
Buildable areas shall be clearly marked on the site plan and/or final approved plat, as appropriate.
"Critical Facilities" means essential facilities, and lifelines such as major utility, transportation, and
communication facilities and their connections to essential facilities.
"Debris Flow" means a slurry of rock, soil, organic material, and water transported in an extremely
fast and destructive flow that flows down channels and onto and across alluvial fans; includes a
continuum of sedimentation events and processes including debris, flows, debris floods,
mudflows, clearwater floods, and alluvial fan flooding.
"Development" includes all critical and essential facilities, subdivisions, single- and multi-family
dwellings, commercial and industrial buildings, additions to existing buildings, storage facilities,
pipelines and utility conveyances, and other land uses.
"Engineering Geologist" means a geologist who, through education, training and experience, is
able to conduct field investigations and interpret geologic conditions to assure that geologic
factors affecting engineered works are recognized, adequately interpreted, and presented for use
in engineering practice and for the protection of the public.
"Engineering Geology" means the application of geological data, principles and interpretation so
that geological factors affecting planning, design, construction, and maintenance of engineered
works are properly recognized and adequately interpreted.
"Essential Facility" means buildings and other structures that are intended to remain operational
in the event of extreme environmental loading from snow or earthquakes, including all Category
II and III structures as classified in Table 1604.5 of the Building Code.
"Fault" means a fracture in the earth's crust forming a boundary between rock or soil masses that
have moved relative to each other (see "Active fault").
"Fault Setback" means an area on either side of a fault within which construction of structures for
human occupancy or critical facilities is not permitted.
"Fault Scarp" means a steep slope or cliff formed by movement along a fault.
"Fault Trace" means the intersection of a fault plane with the ground surface, often present as a
fault scarp, or detected as a lineament on aerial photographs.
"Fault Zone" means a corridor of variable width along one or more fault traces, within which
deformation has occurred.
"Geologic Hazard" means a surface fault rupture, liquefaction, landslide, debris flow, rockfall,
avalanche, and/or other geologic processes that may present a risk to life and property.
"Geologic Hazard Maps" refers to the following maps showing Geologic Hazards Special Study
Areas in the then unincorporated portion of Salt Lake County, now located within Magna City:
   1. "Surface Fault Rupture and Liquefaction Potential Special Study Areas" dated March 31,
      1989 and revised March 1995;
   2. "Avalanche Special Study Areas" dated March 31, 1989; and
   3. "Landslide, Debris Flow, and Rockfall Special Study Area Map" dated April 9, 2002.
"Geologic Hazard Special Study Area" means a potentially hazardous area as shown on the
geological hazards maps, or in other areas defined under "Applicability" (Section 19.58.030),
within which hazard investigations are generally required prior to development.
"Geotechnical Engineer" means a professional engineer licensed in the State of Utah whose
education, training and experience, is in the field of geotechnical engineering.
"Geotechnical Engineering" means the investigation and engineering evaluation of earth materials
including soil, rock and man-made materials and their interaction with earth retention systems,
foundations, and other civil engineering works. The practice involves the fields of soil mechanics,
rock mechanics, and earth sciences and requires knowledge of engineering laws, formulas,
construction techniques, and performance evaluation of engineering.
"Governing Body" means the Magna City Council.
"Landslide" means a general term for the downslope movement of a mass of soil, surficial deposits
or bedrock, including a continuum of processes between landslides, earthflows, mudflows, debris
flows and debris avalanches, and rockfall.
"Liquefaction" means a process by which certain water-saturated soils lose bearing strength
because of earthquake-related ground shaking and subsequent increase of groundwater pore
pressure.
"Non-Buildable Area" means that portion of a site which an engineering geology report has
concluded may be impacted by geologic hazards that cannot be feasibly mitigated to a safe level,
and where siting of structures is not permitted.
"Rockfall" means a rock, or mass of rock, newly detached from a cliff or other steep slope which
moves downslope by falling, rolling, toppling, or bouncing; includes rockslides, rockfall
avalanches, and talus.
"Setback" means an area within which construction of habitable structures or critical facilities is
not permitted.
"Slope Stability" means the resistance of a natural or artificial slope or other inclined surface to
failure by landsliding; usually assessed under both static and dynamic (earthquake induced)
conditions.
"Structure Designed for Human Occupancy" means any residential dwelling or other structure
used or intended for supporting or sheltering any human occupancy.
19.58.030 Applicability.
These regulations are applicable to:
   1. All lands within Geological Hazard Special Study Areas in Magna City, as shown on the
      following geologic hazards maps on file with Planning and Development Services:
           1. "Surface Fault Rupture and Liquefaction Potential Special Study Areas" dated
              March 31, 1989 and revised March 1995;
           2. "Avalanche Special Study Areas" dated March 31, 1989; and
           3. "Landslide, Debris Flow, and Rockfall Special Study Areas" dated April 9, 2002.
   2. Areas where slopes are in excess of thirty percent (30%); and
   3. Areas where topography, geology, soil conditions, slope instability, slope angle or aspect,
      whether on-site or off-site, indicate a potential for geologic hazards.
Such maps and areas described above and all amendments thereto are made a part of this
Chapter as if fully described and detailed herein. Each change in the geologic hazards maps shall
be subject to the amendment procedures set forth in Section 19.16.080.
19.58.70 Review of Reports-Approval Procedure.
A. In order to fulfill the purposes of this chapter, the Planning and Development Services Division
   or the Planning Commission, as appropriate under Magna City's Development Standards,
   shall review any proposed land use which requires preparation of a geologic hazard report
   under this chapter to determine the possible risks to the safety of persons or property from
   geologic hazards.
B. Prior to consideration of any such development by Planning and Development Services and
   the Planning Commission, the geologic hazard report shall be submitted to the Municipal
   Geologist for review and recommendation. The Municipal Geologist may request the Utah
   Geological Survey, the U.S. Forest Service, and/or other experts to review the report (third-
   party review) and provide additional recommendations. Any cost the municipal shall pay for
   such third-party reviews shall be paid by the applicant prior to Planning Commission or
   Planning and Development Services action. The Municipal Geologist shall file a copy of the
   geologic hazard report in the Municipal Geologist's Geologic Hazards Library, and another
   copy in the Planning and Development Services project file. A copy may also be forwarded to
   the Utah Geological Survey.
C. The Municipal Geologist and other retained experts in their review of the report, and the
   Planning Commission or Planning and Development Services Director in their consideration
   of the development, shall determine whether the development complies with all of the
   following standards:

   1. A suitable geologic hazard report has been prepared by a qualified professional as defined
      in Section 19.58.060.
   2. The proposed land use does not present an unreasonable risk to the safety of persons or
      property (including buildings, storm drains, public streets, utilities or critical facilities,
      whether off-site or on-site), or to the aesthetics and natural functions of the landscape
      (e.g. slopes, streams or other waterways, drainage, wildlife habitat, etc., whether off-site
      or on-site) because of the presence of geologic hazards or because of modifications to
      the site due to the proposed land use;
   3. At the Planning Commission's discretion, with advice from the Municipal Geologist, the
      proposed land use may be approved if the applicant submits substantial evidence in the
      geologic hazard report that, using best available practices, the identified hazards can be
      mitigated to a level where the risk of human life and damage to property are reduced to
      an acceptable and reasonable level in a manner which has a minimum effect on the natural
      environment. Mitigation measures should consider, in their design, the intended aesthetic
      functions of other applicable ordinances

D. Any area determined to contain geologic hazards to life or property may not be approved for
   development unless the applicant demonstrates that the identified hazards or limitations can
   be overcome in such a manner as to minimize hazard to life or property. The applicant shall
   include, with the geologic hazards report, an acceptable mitigation plan that defines how the
   identified hazards or limitations will be overcome in such a manner as to minimize hazard to
   life or property, as described in Subsection 19.58.070.C.1, above, and without impacting or
   affecting off-site areas.

E. The Municipal Geologist may set other requirements as are necessary to overcome any
   geologic hazards and to ensure that the purposes of this chapter are met. These requirements
   may include, but are not limited to:
   1. Additional or more detailed studies to understand or quantify the hazard or determine
      whether mitigation measures recommended in the report are adequate;

   2. Specific mitigation requirements; establishment of buildable and/or non-buildable areas;
      limitations on slope grading; and/or revegetation;
   3. Installation of monitoring equipment and seasonal monitoring of surface and subsurface
      geologic conditions, including groundwater levels;
   4. Other requirements such as time schedules for completion of the mitigation, phasing of
      development, etc.

F. The Planning Commission or Planning and Development Services Director may set
   requirements necessary to reduce the risks from geologic hazards as a condition to the
   approval of any development which requires a geologic hazards report.
19.58.091 Disclosure When a Geologic Hazards Report Is Required.
Whenever a geologic hazards report is required under this chapter, the owner of the parcel shall
record a restrictive covenant running with the land in a form satisfactory to Magna City prior to the
approval of any development or subdivision of such parcel. Disclosure will include signing a
Disclosure and Acknowledgment Form provided by the municipality, which will include the
following:

A. Notice that the parcel is located within a Geologic Hazard Special Study Area as shown on
   the geologic hazard map or otherwise defined in Section 19.58.030;
B. Notice that a geologic hazards report was prepared and is available for public inspection in
   the Municipal Geologist's Geologic Hazards Library;
C. Where geologic hazards and related setbacks are delineated in subdivisions and PUDs, the
   owner shall also place additional notification on the plat stating the above information, prior to
   final approval of the plat.
19.58.100 Warning and Disclaimer.
The geologic hazards ordinance codified in this chapter and geologic hazard maps represent only
those hazardous areas known to Magna City, and should not be construed to include all possible
potential hazard areas. The geologic hazards ordinance and the geologic hazard maps may be
amended as new information becomes available pursuant to procedures set forth in Chapter
19.90. The provisions of this Chapter do not in any way assure or imply that areas outside its
boundaries will be free from the possible adverse effects of geologic hazards. This Chapter may
not create liability on the part of the municipality, any officer or employee thereof for any damages
from geologic hazards that result from reliance on this Chapter or any administrative requirement
or decision lawfully made thereunder.
19.58.120 Conflicting Regulations.
In cases of conflict between the provisions of existing zoning classifications, building code,
subdivision ordinance, or any other ordinance of Magna City and the geologic hazards ordinance
codified in this Chapter, the most restrictive provision applies.
19.69.060 Conditional Uses.

A. If a proposed P-C Zone Plan includes specific land uses identified as conditional uses within
   a given district, those conditional uses in the P-C Zone Plan must be expressly approved by
   the Magna City Council in a development agreement with the applicant(s). The Magna City
   Council's approval of conditional uses in a development agreement does not establish any
   entitlement for approval of a conditional use and is an additional requirement for approval of
   a P-C Zone Plan including any conditional use(s). All conditional uses in any P-C Zone require
   separate review and approval as set forth in this Title. Design standards for conditional uses
   shall be included with the applicable Project Specific Standards.
B. Within a P-C Zone Plan or Community Structure Plan of properties containing at least 75
   acres, but fewer than 200 acres, industrial and manufacturing uses may be allowed as
   conditional uses, subject to Planning Commission and Council approval. This ordinance will
   become effective 20 days after publication pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-711(l) and Utah
   Code Ann. § 10-3-712.
19.69.090 Community Structure Plan (CSP).
Following approval of the P-C Zone Plan, a Community Structure Plan (CSP), together with a
development agreement that codifies that plan, shall be submitted to the Director for review and
approval by the Planning Commission. The CSP shall contain a contiguous area within the P-C
Zone that includes one or more of the following: neighborhoods, villages, business, and research
parks, and/or town centers. A CSP shall show the following:

A. Name of planned community.
B. Names, addresses, and phone numbers of applicant and property owners.
C. CSP location, legal/boundary description, acreage, scale, and north arrow.
D. Proposed land use districts (neighborhoods, villages, business and research parks, and/or
   town centers) boundaries, and acreage; a table showing the number of dwelling units, open
   space acreage, and acreage of the various non-residential land uses.
E. A master circulation system plan, including a street network, pedestrian circulation, bicycle
   and trail system plans (including possible equestrian trails), identification of street alignments
   and right¬ of-way widths, illustrative cross sections which accommodate and specify vehicular,
   pedestrian, and bicycle use in the right-of-way. Pedestrian and bicycle trail systems shall
   connect the land use districts, schools and open space areas and provide linkages to other
   trail systems in existing or future areas of the P-C Zone and adjacent facilities within the
   adjacent municipal jurisdictions of Salt Lake County.
F. Existing and proposed waterways and water bodies, major utilities and easements, flood
   boundary, and flood control facilities.
G. Adjacent parcels, their owners, and their uses.
H. Topography and significant features on or adjacent to the property.
I.   Documentation of existing and proposed secondary water rights, shares, and usage, if any.
J. Open space plan providing general description and locations of major open space.
K. Standards that govern the design and maintenance of major public infrastructure
   improvements (including without limitation sidewalks, street lighting, paving, street furniture,
   etc.) and general building placement, massing, and design criteria (CSP Design Standards);
   and
L. Other information deemed necessary by the Director. The Planning Commission shall have
   the discretion to disapprove a CSP only on the basis of: (1) the failure of the proposed CSP
   to include all of the elements required in this section; (2) the failure of the proposed master
   circulation system identified in the CSP within and surrounding the P-C Zone to adequately
   serve the communities within the P-C Zone; (3) the failure of the proposed major infrastructure
   identified in the CSP within and surrounding the P-C Zone to provide adequate service to the
   communities within the P-C Zone; or (4) the inclusion of uses in the CSP not permitted or
   conditionally permitted under this Chapter. In approving a CSP, the Planning Commission may
   impose reasonable conditions of approval to mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental
   impacts in accordance with Magna City Code of Ordinance Subsection 19.84.060(C)-(D).
19.69.100 Project Plan/Subdivision Plat.
Upon approval of a CSP, a Project Plan shall be submitted for review, together with a development
agreement that outlines Project Specific Standards establishing in substantial detail the character
and nature of the design of public and private improvements within the area covered by the
applicable Project Plan (Project Specific Standards) for the applicable portion of the P-C Zone
covered by the Project Plan. The purpose of the Project Plan is to allow for the creation and
approval of a fully integrated development plan for a specifically identified portion of the applicable
P-C Zone. A Project Plan may include vertical and horizontal mixtures of uses on one or more
proposed lots, parcels or units located within the boundaries of the proposed Project Plan.
Therefore, the Project Plan may identify a combination of proposed subdivisions, condominium
projects, and/or site plans, one or more of which may be submitted concurrently for review and
approval with the Project Plan. The Project Plan, and each Subdivision Plat or Condominium
Project submitted in connection therewith or in furtherance thereof, shall be reviewed and
approved by the County staff prior to submittal of the Project Plan and associated development
agreement to the Planning Commission for approval. Subdivision Plats (preliminary and final)
shall be submitted and approved pursuant to the process and in accordance with the requirements
set forth in Title 18, "Subdivisions," of the Magna City Code of Ordinances, and other applicable
sections of the code. Application and approval of a preliminary or final subdivision plat may occur
before submission of a Project Plan provided Project Specific Standards are submitted and
approved contemporaneously with such subdivision plat application and approvals; and provided,
further, that the Project Specific Standards and subdivision plat will ultimately be incorporated into
an approved Project Plan and associated development agreement. The preliminary and final plats
shall conform to the applicable CSP Standards as well as all applicable Project Specific
Standards, including any supplemental Project Specific Standards proposed and approved in
connection with the applicable final plat.
                                          EXHIBIT C
19.46.120 Infrastructure and Public Improvements
The minimum requirements for public improvements shall be a combination of standards set forth
in Title 14 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places and applicable standards set forth in this Title
or Magna’s Master Transportation Plan.
A. Off-Site Improvements Required.
   1. Off-Site Improvements. Subject to the essential link and rough proportionality tests for
      exactions in Utah Code Section 10-9a-508, an applicant for a building or land use permit
      for a dwelling, or a commercial or industrial use shall provide curb, gutter, sidewalk and
      urban hydrology improvements along the entire property line which abuts any public road
      or street in cases where it does not exist at municipal standards.
   2. Access to public right of ways. New and reconstructed vehicular entrances to the property
      shall be provided as required in Section 14.12.110. Height, location, structural
      specifications, maximum and minimum cut radii and minimum roadway approach angles
      to the centerline of the street are subject to the approval of the Municipal Engineering
      Division.
   3. Exceptions.
       1. The planning commission may grant exception to the installation of the sidewalk in
          industrial areas where the planning commission determines that the sidewalk is not
          necessary to serve the public need, and the elimination of the sidewalk does not
          jeopardize the public health, safety or welfare.
       2. The planning commission may grant exception to the installation of curb, gutter and
          sidewalk in rural or estate areas where topographic or other exceptional conditions
          exist, provided that the public health, safety and welfare is preserved.
       3. The planning commission may require the applicant to sign a delay agreement binding
          the current and future property owner to pay for their share of any required
          improvements that are installed by Magna City within 10 years of the waiver.
B. Acceptance of Public Streets.
   1. Street lighting shall either be chosen from the municipality’s approved streetlight list or
      installed to match a theme set by developments within the zone or neighborhood.
   2. Street lighting shall be installed in conformance with Title 18.
   3. Street Signs and Markers. Standard street name signs shall be installed at one corner of
      all street intersections. The size, design, materials, location, fabrication, installation, and
      maintenance of the signs and poles within the public right of way and elsewhere shall be
      in accordance with the Utah Department of Transportation, the Manual of Uniform Traffic
      Control Devices for Streets and Highways (MUTCD), or the municipality’s adopted
      policies, as applicable.
C. Private Streets.
     1. Private streets or roads shall be designed and constructed to meet or exceed the public
        street standards set forth in Title 14 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places, as
        applicable.
        a. Private streets or roads are allowed in the following circumstances:
            (i) If shown on an approved development plan as private streets;
            (ii) For multi-family developments; and
            (iii) For residential subdivisions if the street is equally shared between properties. Such
                  streets shall have a maintenance and operations plan included in the declaration
                  of covenants, conditions, and restrictions for the subdivision.
D. Ingress and Egress Requirements. No building with human occupiable space may be erected
   or enlarged on a parcel in any zone unless such parcel abuts upon or has access to a publicly
   accepted and maintained street, a private driveway leading to an approved public street, a
   private road, or a public or private alley.
E. Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility. In all zones which require a front yard, no obstruction
   to view in excess of three feet (3’) in height may be placed on any corner lot within a triangular
   area formed by the street property lines or right-of-way lines and a line connecting them at
   points forty feet (40’) from the intersection of the street lines, except mature trees which are
   located in the clear sight triangle shall be pruned to a height of at least seven feet (7') above
   the established sidewalk or street elevation.
F. Intersecting Streets and Driveways. In all zones, no view obstruction, including a sight-
   obscuring fence, wall, sign, other similar structures, and landscaping which exceeds three feet
   (3’) in height shall be placed within a triangular area formed by a diagonal line connecting
   lines located at the curb line or sidewalk line and driveway line ten feet (10’) from the projected
   intersection of such lines.
G. Acceptance of Private Streets. Prior to acceptance by the municipality, any private street, or
   any driveway allowed for access with a development that is not constructed and maintained
   to the municipality’s adopted street standards shall be improved to the municipality’s adopted
   street standards.
H. Driveways. A driveway shall be allowed for vehicular access according to the standards set
   forth in Title 14 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places, and Chapter 19.48 Parking and
   Mobility.
I.   Pedestrian and Bicycle Mobility.
     1. Each lot shall have pedestrian walkways and sidewalks that provide connections between
        the building entrances, neighboring building entrances, parking areas, open space, and
        public trail. Such systems shall be designed to connect with all elements within the
        development, adjacent areas, and transit stops and can include sidewalks along public or
        private streets, wide outside travel lanes, bike lanes on roadways, and walkways and trails
        in alternative locations as appropriate. Design, location, dimensions, dedications,
        easements, and reservations shall conform to applicable municipal policies and standards
        for sidewalks, bicycle routes, and trails.
2. Walkways and trails shall be designed to maximize the safety of users and the security of
   adjoining properties with respect to location, visibility, and landscaping.
3. Bicycle Facilities. Bicycle facilities shall be provided in accordance with the standards set
   forth in Chapter 19.48 Parking and Mobility.
                                         EXHIBIT D
19.42.030 Accessory Dwelling Unit.

A. The purposes of the Accessory Dwelling Unit (“ADU”) standards is to:

   1. Allow opportunities for property owners to provide social or personal support for family
      members where independent living is desirable;
   2. Provide for affordable housing opportunities;
   3. Make housing units available to moderate income people who might otherwise have
      difficulty finding housing in Magna City;
   4. Provide opportunities for additional income to offset rising housing costs;
   5. Develop housing units in single-family neighborhoods that are appropriate for people at a
      variety of stages in the life cycle;
   6. Preserve the character of single-family neighborhoods by providing standards governing
      development of ADUs; and
   7. Ensure that ADUs are properly regulated by requiring property owners to obtain a business
      license and a building permit for an ADU prior to renting the ADU.
B. Allowable Areas and Zones.
   1. Internal Accessory Dwelling Units (IADU) and Attached Accessory Dwelling Units
      (AADU) are permitted uses in the R, A and PC zones as identified in the use tables in
      this Title. IADU’s and AADU’s may only be constructed on lots with an area of 6,000
      square feet or greater.
   2. Detached Accessory Dwelling Units (DADU) are a permitted use in the R, A and PC
      zones as identified in the use tables in this Title. A detached ADU may be constructed on
      lots with an area of 8,000 square feet or greater. Detached ADUs in a PC Zone are
      permitted on lots with a minimum area of 6,000 square feet if Magna has approved
      design standards for the same as part of a development agreement.
   3. In no case may an ADU be permitted in, or accessory to, a townhome, a multi-family
      PUD or other attached unit type, or on any lot that cannot satisfy parking, setback, or lot
      coverage requirements.
   4. The grounds of a church, synagogue, mosque or other religious institution may include
      one attached or detached accessory dwelling unit for the use of the leader of the
      congregation, a caretaker, or other employee of the congregation. A detached ADU may
      be constructed on lots with an area of 12,000 square feet or greater. The lot shall include
      both the primary religious building and the accessory dwelling unit.
                                          EXHIBIT E
19.48.040 Standards for Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones
E. Commercial Vehicles. Commercial vehicles may not be parked or stored on residential
   property in an R-1 or R-2 zone, except in the following circumstances:
   1. Commercial vehicles may be parked on a property in conjunction with lawfully permitted
      construction, maintenance, or site development activities so long as said activities are
      diligently pursued.
   2. Subject to Subsection 4, one commercial vehicle may be parked behind the front line of
      the dwelling and screened from view from public streets or neighboring properties with
      an opaque fence that is at least six feet (6’) tall, provided it is parked on a paved surface.
   3. Subject to Subsection 4, one commercial vehicle may be parked in the front yard or side
      yard of a dwelling in the R-1 or R-2 Zones upon issuance of a permit by Planning and
      Development Services, as long as all of the following criteria are met:
       a. No other commercial vehicle is parked or stored on the property;
       b. The operator of the vehicle is required to be on call twenty-four (24) hours a day to
          use the vehicle in response to an emergency;
       c. The commercial vehicle is parked on a paved surface; and
       d. The commercial vehicle is parked entirely on private property, not parked on or over
          the street or sidewalk.
   4. Prohibited Commercial Vehicles. The following commercial vehicles are prohibited from
      being parked in an R-1 or R-2 Zone except as provided for in Subsection 1:
       a. Heavy equipment, such as earth movers, backhoes, cranes, forklifts, bulldozers, and
          the like, which are commonly used for construction, excavation, demolition, or lifting;
       b. Vehicles used to haul equipment or materials, such as dump trucks, tanker trucks,
          semi-tractors, semi-trailers, cement trucks, or other similar vehicles; and
       c. Vehicles exceeding Class 5 (two-axle, six tire single unit trucks) in the Federal
          Highway Administration vehicle category classification.
                                         EXHIBIT F
19.26.050 Lot Area, Lot Width, Lot Coverage
A. Development in the A-1 and A-2 Zones shall comply with the development standards of Table
   19.26.050 and all other applicable standards in this Title.

             Table 19.26.050 – Development Standards in Agricultural Zones.
        Zone             Minimum Lot Area       Minimum Lot Width          Maximum Lot
                                                                         Coverage (Primary
                                                                            Buildings)

         A-1            10,000 Sq Ft/1 Acre1         65/100 Feet                35%

         A-20                 20 Acres                200 Feet                  30%


   1. Subdivision lots that met the area, width and frontage requirements existing prior to the
      adoption of this ordinance are legal, nonconforming lots. Lots created subsequent to the
      adoption of this ordinance must include one (1) acre and have a minimum lot width of one
      hundred (100) feet.
                                          EXHIBIT G
19.42.060 - Animal Rights.
Animal Rights, where allowed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable zone, are also
subject to the following standards:
A. Parcels containing fewer than twenty thousand square feet (20,000 sq. ft.) are prohibited
   from keeping animals under the animal rights provisions in this Section.
B. When a parcel with animal rights contains at least twenty thousand square feet (20,000 sq.
   ft.) but fewer than 5.25 acres, that parcel may hold no more than one animal unit and their
   seasonal offspring for each ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
C. When a parcel or group of contiguous parcels with shared ownership contains more than 5.25
   acres, that parcel or group of parcels may hold no more than one animal unit and their
   seasonal offspring for each five thousand (5,000) square feet.
D. No animals or fowl may be kept or maintained closer than 40 feet to any dwelling on an
   adjacent parcel of land. No barn, stable, coop, pen, or corral shall be kept closer than 40 feet
   to any street.
E. Applicant shall submit a manure management plan, which shall address mitigation of
   stormwater runoff, odor, and flies, and shall include the following:
   1. Clean-up of manure and off-site deposit of the same in warm -weather seasons. Manure
      storage or composting is allowed in accordance with Salt Lake County Health Department
      General Sanitation Regulation regarding composting.
   2. Siting of newly constructed stalls to protect surface water, drainageways, wellheads,
      streams and irrigation ditches.
   3. Bedding system such as stall mats, hay, wood shaving, and/or wood pellets.
F. Provisions in the FR or FA zones related to horses shall govern over this section and its
   associated definitions. A horse shall be considered a large animal, but the number of horses
   allowed in the FR or FA zones shall not be increased or diminished by this section or its
   associated definitions.
                                           EXHIBIT H
19.42.320 Storage and Salvage Yards
Storage yards and salvage yards, when listed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable
zone, are subject to the following requirements:
A. No portion of the storage area shall be located within three hundred feet (300') of any
   residential zone or use lot line.
B. Any outdoor storage area shall be completely enclosed by a fence or wall no less than six feet
   (6') in height, constructed of a sturdy, durable material and sufficiently opaque to ensure that
   the stored material is not visible from outside the storage area. The fence or wall shall have a
   minimum of two (2) non-transparent gates not exceeding forty-eight feet (48') in width
   providing access to the storage area for vehicles but may not allow direct view of the storage
   area from adjacent properties or streets. Said fence or wall shall be continuously maintained
   in good condition and may contain only approved signs.
C. Each salvage or storage yard shall include a masonry wall along the entirety of each street
   frontage. This wall shall be constructed at the front setback line required for buildings in the
   underlying zone. The storage or salvage area may not be no closer to street than the front
   facade of the building. The Director may accept a landscaped berm in lieu of the masonry wall
   if the height, width, and berm landscaping fully screen the storage or salvage areas. A berm
   allowed in lieu of a masonry wall shall include live plant material that covers no less than fifty
   percent (50%) of the berm with grasses, bushes, ground cover or tree canopies. Trees and
   bushes shall be at least twenty five percent (25%) evergreen.
D. Stored materials may not be stacked higher than six feet (6') and shall be stored in a manner
   so as not to be visible from adjoining properties or rights-of-way. In no case may salvage or
   junk be stored at a height exceeding the height of the storage area fence or wall. Operational
   vehicles and motorized equipment are not subject to the height requirement for storage. No
   inoperable vehicle or equipment may be stored within the outdoor storage areas. Permitted
   salvage yards are the only allowable storage areas for inoperable vehicles or equipment.
E. The surface of the storage yard shall be covered with an all-weather surface. Any stormwater
   or other runoff from the site shall be contained on the site and disposed of through an on-site
   drainage system, in conformance with applicable regulations to enforce the requirements of
   the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination Systems (NPDES) permit.
F. Outdoor storage shall be kept and maintained in a neat and orderly manner. Outdoor storage
   may not include dirt, manure, gravel, rocks, sand, bark, or similar materials, unless the items
   are stored in bags, on pallets, or on other individually sealed containers.
G. A management office shall be provided on site. A caretaker unit may be permitted for security
   personnel or on-site operator.
H. Conditions within the storage area shall be controlled to minimize the hazards of fire and other
   threats to health and safety. Conditions within the storage area shall be controlled to minimize
   the hazards of fire and other threats to health and safety. Product, salvage, or other storage
   shall be stored in rows with a continuously looping drive aisles with a minimum width of twenty
   feet (20').
I.   Requests for a permit for a salvage yard shall also require submission of a detailed proposal
     identifying the predominant type of salvage to be received, the methods of separation and/or
     recycling, and ultimate destination of all salvaged, recycled, and waste materials. The
     applicant shall submit written materials outlining measures taken to comply with all necessary
     state, county, and local laws.
J. All batteries shall be removed from any vehicle, and all radiator and fuel tanks shall be drained
   prior to the vehicle being placed in a salvage yard. Salvaged batteries, oil and other such
   substances shall be removed by a licensed disposal company and be stored in a manner
   which prevents leakage of battery fluid. No fluids removed from vehicles may be applied as a
   dust control method, or otherwise allowed to be discharged upon the ground.
K. Vehicle parts may not be stored, loaded, unloaded, or dismantled outside the fence enclosing
   the salvage yard.
L. In order to protect surrounding areas, business operations, including loading and unloading
   operations shall be limited to daylight hours.
                                          EXHIBIT I
19.50.200 Tree and Landscaping Trimming
A. In addition to the other standards of this Chapter, the property owner is responsible for
   maintaining all trees and landscaping on the property and adjacent park strips to the
   following standards.
   1. Trees and landscaping which overhang the street pavement shall be trimmed to a
      minimum height of fourteen and one-half feet (14.5’) above the street pavement.
   2. Trees and landscaping which overhang the sidewalk shall be trimmed to a minimum
      height of eight and one-half feet (8.5’) above the sidewalk.
   3. The abutting property owner shall remove any tree, tree stump, shrub or vine in or within
      twenty feet (20’) of the right-of-way if that tree, tree stump, shrub, or vine is dead,
      diseased, or determined by the Director or Designee to be undesirable for any other
      reason.
   4. If trees or landscaping are determined by the Director or Designee to be an imminent
      threat to public health and safety, the municipality may proceed with an emergency
      abatement, as outlined in Title 12.
   5. Noxious Trees. Noxious trees shall be controlled and contained according to the
      recommendations of the Utah Department of Agriculture and Food.
B. Enforcement. This Section shall be enforced according to the provisions of Title 12 of the
   Magna Municipal Code.
                                 SUMMARY OF
                                 MAGNA CITY
                            ORDINANCE NO. 2024-O-17

On December 10, 2024, the Magna Council enacted Ordinance No. 2024-O-16, amending
title 19 to replace Magna Metro Township with Magna or Magna City, as appropriate;
clarifying when infrastructure and public improvements must be installed by a developer
subject to the limitations on exactions in Utah code; clarifying that internal and attached
dwelling units may only be constructed on single family lots with 6,000 square feet or
greater; amending the definition of commercial vehicles and clarifying the circumstances
in which commercial vehicles may be parked in R-1 and R-2 zones; clarifying 1 acre
minimum for new development in the a-1 zone; clarifying that a lot must include 20,000
square feet to have "animal rights"; requiring an "all weather surface" in storage and
salvage yards; requiring trees and landscaping to be trimmed to 14.5" above the street; and
adding or clarifying definitions for "off premise signs", "animal rights", "alteration",
"clustering", "expansion", "grading", “natural open space", "net developable acreage",
"retaining wall", "site plan", "slope", "stream, “ephemeral", "stream, perennial", "stream
corridor", "substantial economic hardship", "undevelopable", and "waiver"



By: Eric J. Barney, Mayor



ATTEST                                           APPROVED AS TO FORM


_______________________________                  ________________________________
Nicole Smedley, Recorder                         Paul Ashton, City Attorney


Voting:
Council Member Barney              voting        ___
Council Member Prokopis            voting        ___
Council Member Hull                voting        ___
Council Member Pierce              voting        ___
Council Member Sudbury             voting        ___

A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2024-O-17 is available in the office of the Magna
Recorder, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.
