MAGNA CITY
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-0-06
AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL ESTABLISHING A MUNICIPAL
ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX AND A TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE TAX
RECITALS

WHEREAS, the Magna City Council (“Council”) met in a regular session on June 11,
2024, to consider, among other things, establishing a municipal energy sales and use tax (“MET”)
and a telecommunications license tax (“TLT”), and establishing the effective dates and rates for
such taxes; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax Act, Utah Code § 10-
1-301 et seg., Magna City (“Magna City”) may levy a MET through ordinance; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Municipal Telecommunications License Act, Utah Code §
10-1-401 et seg., Magna City may levy a TLT through ordinance; and

WHEREAS, the Council has determined to enact a MET and a TLT through this
ordinance.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL as follows:
1. Enactment of MET. The following is enacted as Chapter 3.80 of the Magna City Municipal Code:

3.80.010 Purpose

It is the intent of Magna City to adopt a municipal energy sales and use tax pursuant to,

and in conformance with, Utah Code § 10-1-301 et seq., the “Municipal Energy Sales and

Use Tax Act.”

3.80.020 Definitions

All words and phrases in this chapter shall have the same meaning given them in the MET

Act, with the following additions:

A. “Consumer” means a person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject

to the MET Act.
B. “MET” means municipal energy sales and use tax.
C. “MET Act” means Utah Code § 10-1-301 et seq., the “Municipal Energy Sales and
Use Tax Act.”

D. “Sale” shall mean any transfer of title, exchange, or barter, conditional or otherwise,
in any manner, of taxable energy or fuel for consideration. It includes:

E. “Installment and credit sale’”’ means

1. Any closed transaction constituting a sale; and

2. Any transaction under which right to acquire, use, or consume taxable energy
is granted under a lease or contract and the transfer would be taxable if an
outright sale were made.

i. “Storage” means any keeping or retention of taxable energy in Magna City for any
purpose, except the sales in the regular course of business.

j. “Use” means the exercise of any right or power over taxable energy incident to the
ownership or the leasing of the taxable energy, excluding the sale, display,
demonstration, or trial of the taxable energy in the regular course of business and or
taxable energy which is held for resale.

3.80.030 Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax Levied

Pursuant to Utah Code §59-12-301 et seq., the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax Act,

there is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this Ordinance, a tax on every Sale or

Use of taxable energy made within Magna City equaling 6% of the value of the taxable

energy to the consumer and effective on and after October 1, 2024. This tax shall be known

as the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax (“MET”). The MET shall be calculated on the
delivered value of the taxable energy to the consumer. The MET shall be in addition to any
sales or use tax imposed by Magna City under Utah Code §59-12-201 et seq., the Local

Sales and Use Tax Act.

3.80.040 Exemptions

Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-1-305(2)(b), the MET exempts from its terms the sale and use

of:

A. Aviation fuel, motor fuel, or special fuel which is subject to taxation under Utah Code
§ 59-13;

B. Taxable energy where the primary use is for compounding or producing taxable energy
or a fuel which is subject to taxation under Utah Code § 59-13;

C. Taxable energy that Magna City is prohibited from taxing under federal law or the
Constitutions of the United States or Utah;

D. Taxable energy purchased or stored in Magna City for resale;

2

E. Taxable energy brought into the state by a nonresident for his or her own personal use
while in the state, except taxable energy purchased for use in the state by a nonresident
living or working in the state at the time of purchase;

F. Taxable energy for any purpose other than use as a fuel or energy, and

G. Taxable energy for use outside of Magna City.

H. Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-1-305(4), the sale, storage, use, or other consumption of
taxable energy is exempt from the MET if:

1. The delivered value of the taxable energy has been subject to a municipal energy
sales and use tax levied by another municipality within Utah under an ordinance
enacted in accordance with the MET Act; and

2. Magna City shall be paid the difference between the tax paid to the other
municipality and the tax that would otherwise be due under the MET if the tax due
under the MET exceeds the tax paid to the other municipality.

The MET further incorporates all other exemptions required by Utah law.

3.80.050 No Effect Upon Existing Franchises; Credits for Franchise Fees

This MET shall not alter any existing franchise agreements unless otherwise terminated or

altered by agreement or applicable law. Any energy supplier who (a) pays a contractual

franchise fee to Magna City pursuant to a contract which was in effect as of July 1, 1997,

(b) passes the fee through to taxpayers as a separately itemized charge, and (c) accepts the

franchise shall receive a tax credit equal to its contractual franchise fee.

3.80.060 Tax Collection Contract With the Tax Commission

A. On or before the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived,
Magna City shall contract with the state Tax Commission to perform all functions related
to the administration and collection of the MET, save those functions reserved to Magna
City by law and described below. The Mayor and City Recorder are hereby authorized
to enter into such agreement or amended agreement as needed with the state Tax
Commission that may be necessary to the continued administration and operation of the
MET.

B. An energy supplier shall pay the MET collected from its consumers directly to Magna
City monthly if:

1. Magna City is the energy supplier; or
3

2. The energy supplier estimates that the MET collected annually from its Utah
consumers equals one million U.S. dollars ($1,000,000.00) or more and (c) the
energy supplier collects the MET.

C. An energy supplier paying the MET directly to Magna City may retain the percent of the
tax authorized under Utah Code § 59-12-108(2) for energy supplier's cost of collecting
and remitting the tax.

3.80.070 State Statutes Incorporated

A. Except as herein provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of the MET Act, as well as this Chapter, all of the provisions of Utah Code
§ 59-12-1, as amended, and in force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as
they relate to the sales and use taxes levied therein, are hereby adopted and made a
part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein.

B. Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code § 59-12-1 or the MET Act the State of
Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of Magna City shall be
substituted, insofar as is necessary for the purposes of those parts. Inno event shall the
word “state” be substituted when used in junction with the “state tax commission,”
nor shall the State Tax Commission be substituted with Magna City in any way or for
any matter of liability which is assigned by statute to the State Tax Commission.

C. Any amendments made to Utah Code § 59-12-1 that relate to levying or collecting a
municipal energy sales and use tax are hereby adopted by reference.

3.080.080 No Additional License or Reporting Required

No additional license to collect or report the MET tax is required, provided the energy

supplier collecting the tax has a license issued under Utah Code § 59-12-106.

2. Enactment of TLT. The following is enacted as Chapter 3.90 of the Magna City Municipal Code:
3.90.010 Purpose
It is the intent of the Council to adopt a TLT pursuant to, and in conformance with, Utah Code
§ 10-1-40] et seq., the ““Telecommunications License Tax Act.”
3.90.020 Definitions. All words and phrases in this Chapter shall have the same meaning
given them in the TLT Act, with the following additions:
A. “TILT” means a telecommunications license tax authorized under the TLT Act.
B. “TLT Act” means the Telecommunications License Tax Act, Utah Code § 10-1-40] et seq.
4

3.90.030 TLT Levied
There is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this Chapter, a tax on the gross receipts of
telecommunications services attributable to Magna City in accordance with Utah Code §§ 59-
12 and 10-1-407. The rate of the TLT shall equal 3.5% of each telecommunications provider’s
gross receipts from telecommunications services that are attributed to Magna City. The tax
shall be effective on and after October 1, 2024. Magna City may exceed this rate if a higher
rate is approved by a majority vole among those persons who vote in a municipal general
election or a regular general election.
3.90.040 Agreement With the Tax Commission
On or before the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, Magna City
shall enter a uniform interlocal agreement described in Utah Code § 10-1-405 with the Utah
Tax Commission.
3.90.050 Procedure for Taxes Erroneously Recovered from Customers
A customer may not bring a cause of action against a telecommunications provider on the basis
that the telecommunications provider erroneously recovered from the customer municipal
telecommunications license taxes authorized by this ordinance unless the customer meets the
same requirements that a purchaser is required to meet to bring a cause of action against a
seller for a refund or credit as provided in Utah Code § 59-12-110.1(3).
3. Notice to Utah State Tax Commission. The Mayor is directed and authorized to execute and
send the letter attached to this ordinance to the Utah State Tax Commission.
4. Effective Date of MET and TLT. The MET and TLT will become effective on and after
October 1, 2024, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-1-304(3)(b).
5. Agreements with Utah State Tax Commission. On or before the effective date of the MET Tax,
the Mayor shall execute agreements that are in substantially the same form as Attachment 2 of the
attached letter, unless the Commission requires another form or format, in which case the Mayor
will present such agreement(s) to the Council for review and approval.
6. Direction to Mayor and Staff. The Council directs the Mayor and Magna City staff to take all
actions necessary to implement this ordinance.
7. Effective Date of Ordinance. This ordinance shall take effect as soon as it is posted pursuant
to Utah Code §10-3-711, deposited, and recorded in the office of the City Recorder.
[Execution on following page]
5

ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the Magna City Council on
this 25" day of June 2024.
i alee TY,
Libis,
ATTEST: APPROVED AS TO FORM:
( f Recorder \ City Attomey
VOTING:
Council Member Barney voting aye
Council Member Sudbury voting ave
Council Member Pierce voting aye
Council Member Prokopis voting ave
Council Member Hall voting ae.
(Complete as Applicable)
Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code
§10-3-711: 0
Effective date of ordinance: 1
6

SUMMARY OF
MAGNA CITY
ORDINANCE NO, 2024-0-06
On June 25, 2024, the Magna City Council enacted Ordinance No. 2024-O-06 to enact: (1) Chapter 3.80 of the Magna
City Municipal Code to establish a municipal energy sales and use tax pursuant to the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax,
Utah Code § 10-1-301 ef seg.; and (2) Chapter 3.90 of the Magna City Municipal Code to establish a municipal
telecommunications license tax pursuant to the Municipal Telecommunications License Act, Utah Code § 10-1-401 et seq.
MAGNA CIT
4 /.
By: Exic G. Barney, or
ATTEST: APPROVED AS TO FORM:
. City Attorey
ity Recorder
VOTING:
Council Member Barney voting aye
Council Member Sudbury voting ay é
Council Member Pierce voting ave
Council Member Prokopis voting ae
Council Member Hull voting Ave
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2024-0-06 is available in the office of the Magna City Recorder,
2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.
