                                           MAGNA CITY, UTAH

              Ordinance No. 2025-0-05                                            Date: April 22,2025

                   AN ORDINANCE OF MAGNA CITY COUNCIL AMENDING
                     TITLE 11 OF THE MAGNA CITY MUNICIPAL CODE,
                    PROVISIONS ON STOPPING, STAIIDING AND PARKING

    WHEREAS, Magna City ("Magna City") adopted each county ordinance in effect at the time of
    its incorporation as a Meto Towrnhip pursuant to Utah Code Ann. Subsection I0-2a-414(3)(2023),
    which ordinance continued in force upon its conversion to a City, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. $
    l0-l-201 .5(6)(2024), and Magna City has authority to amend or repeal such ordinance when it
    determines it is necessary; and

    WHEREAS, Magna City is a municipality and has authority to regulate and enforce its code
    pursuant to Utah Code; and

    WHEREAS, Magna City has authority to adopt ordinances re Vehicles and Traffic, including
    provisions dealing with parking, in accordance with Title 10 of the Utah Code, to protect public
    health, safety, and welfare; and

    WHEREAS, the Magna City Council deems it necessary to amend Chapter 11.20 to Title 1lof
    the Magna City Municipal Code re Vehicles and Traffic in order to ensure compliance with State
    Statute, to promote ease of use for residents and staff, and preserve the unique character of the
    Magna City community; and for the protection and preservation of the public health, safety and
    general welfare.

    BE IT ORDAINED BY MAGNA CITY COUNCIL as follows:

1   The attached Chapter 11.20 of Title 1 1 are hereby repealed and replaced in their entirety as set
    forth in the attached Attachment 1, all other non-amended sections of Title 11 to remain the
    same until such time as dealt with by Magna City.

2   Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of these Ordinances is
    unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion(s) of these Ordinances, or specific application of
    these Ordinances, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full force and
    effect.
3   Implementation. Magna City staff are instructed to take administrative steps needed to inmrporate
    tre amended sections, as set forlh in Auachment 1, for publication in tlre municipal code including but not
    limited to making any formatting, grammatical, or other non-substantive changes to the Ordinance
    that may be needed.

4   Posting and Effective Date. After Magna City staff have prepared Attachment I for
    publication to the municipal code, the staff shall post the attached summary pursuant to Utah
    Code $ l0-3-711(lXb); and publish Attachment 1 to said code. This ordinance will become
effective as ofthe date the summary is posted and Attachment I is published to said code.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 22nd day of April,2025




      ATTEST:                                                               APPROVED




      Diana Baun, Clerk/Recorder                                            City Attorney

      Voting

      Mayor Barney voting
      Council Member Hull voting               -m
                                               0"tlt
      Cou ncil Member Pierce-rreting
      Council Member Prokopis voting
                                               tw^l
                                                Ade
      Council Member Sudbury voting
                                               "#.



     Date ordinance summary was posted on the Utah Public Notice Website:



                                          l       uL5
SUMMARY OF MAGNA CITY ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-04

      On the 22nd day of April, 2025 the Magna City Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-
O-05 that adopts amended sections of Titles I I (Vehicles and Traffic) of the Magna City
Municipal Code ("MCMC") and repeals and replaces in their entirety the prior version
of Chapter 11.20 of said Title I I .



         MAGNA




         Eric

        ATTEST




                Baun,


    APPROVED AS TO FORM:



        CITY


      Voting

      Mayor Barney voting                 aqe
      Council Member Hull voting
                                          QQC
      Council Member Pierce votlng        cbse{tl-
      Council Member Prokopis voting      gue
      Council [Member Sudbury voting      dt^P,


      A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-0-05 is available in the office of the
      Magna City Clerk, 860tatoy Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah.
                           Ltvoor
                                   J




                                                                             Page 3 of 4
ATTACHMENT 1




               Page 4 ot 4
Chapter 11.20 STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING

11 .20.010 Erection Of Traffic Control Devices

It shall be the duty ofthe traffic engineer on behalf of the City to cause traffic signs and other traffic
control devices to be erected and to regulate, warn and guide traffic and parking on the streets,
highways and property of the City. No traffic control device shall be placed or maintained upon any
highway under the jurisdiction of the Utah Department of Transportation.

1'1.20.020 Curb Markinqs

    1. The traffic engineer is authorized on behalf of the Cityto place and maintain appropriate
        signs or traffic markings to indicate standing or pafting regulations, and the traffic markings
        shall designate the zones and shall have the meanings set forth in this chapter:

            1   . "Red" means no stopping, standing or parking at any time.
            2. "Yellow," with the words "Restricted Zone" stenciled thereon, means no stopping,
                  standing or parking except as stated on the signs or markings giving notice thereof,
                  except that this provision shall not apply on Sundays and legal holidays.

    2. When appropriate signs or traffc curb markings have been erected or placed according to
        this section, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any zone in violation of the
        provisions of this section.
'l1.20.030 Reo ulation Of Park tn o

    1. The traffic engineer may on behalf of the Cig place signs on all City roads and highways
        prohibiting or restricting the parking of vehides where, in his or her opinion, as evidenced by
        an order entered in his or her records, such parking is dangerous to those using the roads or
        where the pa*ing of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free movement of traffic
        thereon.

    2. The traffic engineer may on behalf of the City prohibit, restrict or regulate the parking,
        stopping or standing of vehicles on any off-street parklng facility or property that the City
        owns or operates.

    3. No such regulations shall apply until signs giving notice thereof have been erected.
    4. The provisions of this chapter 1 .20 concerning regulation of parking shall be construed so
                                         1

        as not to conflict with the provisions of Chapter 1 1 .26. ln any situation where the provisions
        of this Chapter 1 1 .20 appear to conflict with the provisions of Chapter 1 1.26, the provisions
        of Chapter 'l 'l .26 shall prevail.
'11.20.050 Parkin q Prohibited ln Soecified Areas

No person shall stop, stand or pa* a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with law or the directions of a law enforcement officer or traffic control
device, in any one of the following places:


                                                                                              Page 1 of 5
    A. On a sidewalk area or in a public right-of-way;
    B. ln front of or within five feet of a private driveway;
    C. Within an intersection;
    D. Within fifteen feet of a fire hydrant, whether on public or private property orwithin a fire lane
          as designated and marked in accordance with the provisions ofsubsection J of Section
        2.28.030 of this code, whether on public or private property;
    E. Within twenty feet of a crosswalk at any intersection, 20 feet of any controlled intersection,
        and 20 feet of a crosswalk;
    F. Within thirty feet of anyflashing beacon or traffic control device located at the side of a
        roadway;
    G. ln front of or within twenty feet on either side of the entrance or exit of any theater, fire
        station or place of public assemblage;
    H. Within fifty feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
    l. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when stopping, standing or
        parking would obstruct or be hazardous to traffic;
    J. Within any alley, except for the necessary and expeditious loading and unloading of
        merchandise; provided, that in no event shall the driveway or entrance to any abutting
       property be blocked or free movement of traffic through the alley be interfered with;
    K. Upon any bridge or other elevated structure on a sfeet or within a street tunnel or
       underpass;
    L. Upon that side of any street contiguous to any school property during school hours;
    M. Atany place where official signs or traffic controls placed by the traffic engineer prohibit
       stopping, standing or parking.
    N. Within 8 feet of a mailbox between the holrs of 7:00 am and 5:00 pm
11.20.060 Parkino Of Truc And Commercial Vehicles

   1   . Definitions. As used in this section:
   2. "Vehicle. Commercial" means any motorized vehicle or trailer used for or intended for
         business use - including but not limited to the transportation of commercial equipment,
         merchandise, produce, freight, commodities, passengers, or animals - and which is
         characterized by any of the following:

   3. a. Heavy equipment, such as earth movers, backhoes, cranes, forklifts, bulldozers, and the
         like, which are commonly used for construction, excavation, demolition, or lifting; b.
         Vehicles used to haul equipment or materials, such as dump trucks, tanker trucks, semi-
         tractors, semi{railers, c€ment trucks, or other similar vehicles; c. Pickup trucks over one
         ton with a commercial modification, such as a flat bed, a dumping mechanism, mechanical
         lifts or arms for loading and unloading materials/equipment, aerial buckets or platforms, or
         other similarfeature; d. Vehicles with more than two axles; or e. Vehicles with a payload
         capacity of more than eight thousand five hundred (8,500) pounds.

   4.
         "Trailer" means any truck trailer or other hailer designed or adapted primarily for the
         transportation of property of whatever kind.



                                                                                             Page 2 of 5
        "Truck" means any trucktractor, panel truck, pickup or other truck in excess of three-
        quarterton capacity.


    5. Restriction. No person shall park any commercialvehicle, agriculturalvehicle, occupied or
        empty trailer, trucktractor or truck on any public street adjacent to a lot or parcel
        containing a residential dwelling(s) or on any public street within a residential subdivision
        for a period of time longer than three consecutive hours.

    6. Exception. The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to vehicles being used in the
        servicing of adjacent properties or streets.

11.20.070 Aooro      To Parkinq Space

    1. Every driver about to enter a parking space being vacated shall stop his vehicle and wait to
        the rear of the vehicle in the actual process of vacating the parking space and having so
        waited shall have prior right to the parking space over all otherdrivers.

    2, No driver shall stop his vehicle ahead of a parking space being vacated and attempt to
        interfere with a driver who has waited properly to the rear of a parking space being vacated

    3. No driver shall stop and wait for a parking space unless the vehicle vacating the space is
        actually in motion.

11.20.080 Vehicle Left Unattended

    1. lt is unlaMul for any person having control of a motor vehicle to permit such vehicle to
        stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, and removing the
        key.

    2. Neither shall any peftion allow a vehicle to stand upon any perceptible grade without
       effectively setting the brakes thereon and turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the
       roadway.

11.20.090 Paralle I Parki          ired-Exception
No person shallstand or park a vehicle on a roadway other than parallel with the edge of the
roadway, headed in the direction of lavvful traffic movement and with the right hand wheels of the
vehicle within twelve inches of the curb or edge of the roadway, except as otherwise provided.
't 1.20.1 00 Anqle Parkinq-Restrictions


The traffic engineer may on behalf of the City, after placement of appropriate signs and markings,
designate certain areas as suitable for angle parking, except that no angle parking shall be
permitted or indicated at any place where passing traffic would thereby be caused or required to
drive upon the left side of the street orwhere any vehicle would extend from the curb or edge of the
roadway a distance greater than onethird of the width of the roadway.

11.20.110 Double Parkinq. Standinq Or Stoooino Pro             -Exception



                                                                                           Page 3 of 5
No person shall park, stand or stop a vehicle upon the roadway side of another vehicle that is
parked, standing or stopped, except while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers, or
in compliance with directions of any officer of the local law enforcement agency or traffic control
device, or when necessary to avoid other traffic.

11.20.120 Obstructi      Traffic Prohibited

No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner or under such conditions as to
leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic

11.20.130 Parki       Prohibited When

When it is snowing or snow is on the street during the months of November, December, January,
February, March and Aprilspecial parking regulations willapply. On even numbered days cars shall
park on the side of the street corresponding to even numbered addresses and on odd numbered
days cars shall park on the side of the street corresponding to odd numbered addresses.

11.20.135 Lono-Term Parkinq Prohibited

No person owning, possessing, controlling or having custody of a vehicle shall permit it to remain
standing upon any City street or alley for a consecutive period of more than twenty-four hours.

11.20.140 Parkinq For Certain Purposes Prohibited

No person shall park or operate a vehicle upon any roadway forthe principal purposes of:

    1. Greasing or repairirg sucfr vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an emergency; or
    2. Selling foodsfuffs or other merchandise in any business district.
11.20.150 Liabilitv

The fact than an automobile is illegally parked shall be sufficient to constitute a rebuttable
presumption that the registered owner was in control of the automobile at the time it was parked.

11.20.160 Removal Of llleqallv Parked Vehicle

When any officer of the local law enforcement agency determines that a vehicle or trailer parked in
violation of this title must be moved to avoid public inconvenience, ensure public safety, or remove
if abandoned, the peace officer is authorized to move, remove, or impound the vehicle or trailer, or
to order the owner or operator of the vehicle or trailer to move or remove it.

           1. A officer of the local law enforcement agency who causes a vehicle or trailer to be
              removed under this section shall have the vehicle or trailer removed by a tow truck
              service that meets the standards established by the applicable State Code.
           2. The City shall not be liable for any lost, damaged, or stolen items or damage to any
              vehicle or trailer moved, removed, or impounded pursuant to this section.
           3. The registered owner of a vehicle or trailer moved, removed, or impounded under
              this section is strictly liable for all related costs.

11.20.170 Penalty


                                                                                           Page 4 of 5
  lf any vehicle or trailer is used in violation of the parking provisions of this title, the person or entity
in whose name the vehicle or trailer is registered shall be strictly liable for the violation and the
penalty for the violation.

  lf any officer of the local law enforcement agency witnesses a person stop or park a vehicle or
trailer in violation of this chapter, the officer shall assess the civil penalty against that operator in
lieu of the registered owner.

Any parking regulation in this title is subject to penalties as currently adopted in the Magna City Fee
Schedule.

 Any vehicle or trailer with unpaid Magna City parking tickets is subject to impound at the owner's
expense.

All parking violations on City streets or highways shall be adjudicated as an infraction before the
administrative law judge




                                                                                                  Page 5 of 5
