                                             ATTACHMENT A


19.12.030 PLANNING COMMISSION

A. Appointment—Term.

   1. The Planning Commission shall consist of five (5) members and up to two (2) alternate members,
      each of whom shall reside in the municipality. Members and alternate members shall be
      appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the Council.

   2. Terms shall commence on March 1st of each year. Members shall serve three-year terms or
      longer until successors are appointed. Terms shall be staggered so that the terms of at least two
      members, and not more than three, expire each year.

   3. If a member’s term expires before a successor is appointed, the member shall continue to serve
      until a successor is appointed.

   4. Members and alternate members may be reappointed for additional three-year terms by the
      mayor with the advice and consent of the Council.

B. Vacancy—Removal.

   1. Any vacancy occurring on the Planning Commission by reason of death, resignation, removal or
      disqualification shall be filled by the Council for the unexpired term of such member.

   2. The mayor, with the advice and consent of the Council, may remove a member of the Planning
      Commission for cause after filing written charges against the member. The member will be
      provided with a hearing on the charges if requested by the member being removed.

C. Organization—Procedures.

   1. The Planning Commission shall elect a chairperson from its members who shall serve a one-year
      term. The chairperson is a voting member.

   2. The Planning Commission shall elect a vice chairperson from its members who shall serve a one-
      year term. The vice chairperson is the designated chair pro-tempore and a voting member.

   3. The Planning Commission may create and fill any other necessary offices it deems necessary and
      may adopt policies and procedures for the conduct of its meetings, the processing of
      applications, and for any other purpose the Planning Commission considers necessary for its
      proper function.

   4. A minimum of three (3)full and/or alternate members in attendance at the meeting is required
      to constitute a quorum.

   5. The minimum number of “yes” votes necessary to carry an action of the commission shall be a
      majority of the members of the quorum in attendance but shall never be less than three (3).

   6. Alternate members shall be designated to sit as voting members of the Planning Commission at
      any time one or more regular members are absent from the meeting. The designation of the
      alternate member to voting status shall be made by the chairman at the commencement of the
      meeting in accordance with the seniority of the alternate members in attendance at the time,
