ORDINANCENO.:         \1-Q1'J-
                            02-

                                MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP


 AN ORDINANCE CREATING CHAPTER 2.56 -COMMUNITY COUNCILS AS A PART
     OF THE MAGNA MUNICIPAL CODE FOR THE PURPOSE OF PROMOTING
      VOLUNTEER SERVICE AND IMPROVED GOVERNANCE FOR MAGNA


       Be it ordained by the Magna Metro Township Council that Chapter 2.56 -
COMMUNITY COUNCILS, be established in the Magna Municipal Code as follows:



Chapter 2.56 - COMMUNITY COUNCILS
2.56.010 - Purpose.
     The purpose of recognizing community councils is to provide a mechanism by which
residents of the Metro Township may identify community service needs and assist the Metro
Township in facilitating those initiatives. Volunteer community councils are an effective way for
the metro township to maximize on the benefits of volunteer service for providing needed events
and programming to the residents of the metro township.
2.56.020 - Establishment.
        Community councils are created by private citizens as private corporations, associations
or otherwise, and are not created by the Metro Township. Privately created community councils
may be recognized by the Metro Township as provided in this chapter.


2.56.050 - Community councils-Representation.
A. The citizens may choose to create a community council for the purpose of serving the
   Community and providing volunteer service. All members of community councils shall serve
   without compensation. Vacancies on a community council shall be filled in accordance with
   the community council's bylaws. All community council meetings shall be open to the public.


B. All community council bylaws, articles of incorporation, meetings, activities, elections, and
   other functions shall abide by the minimum requirements of this chapter or the community
   council will not be entitled to the various services, benefits, and status set out herein.
2.56.060 - Community councils-Participation.
     The citizens may by choice decline to create a community council under the terms of this
     chapter.


2.56.065 - Community council meetings.

       Community councils shall conduct open and public meetings and shall permit interested
persons to attend and participate in those meetings in accordance with applicable council bylaws
and regulations.


2.56.070 - Community councils-Appointment         of members.

       Members of a community council shall be appointed or elected to the council as
determined by the community council's bylaws.


2.56.090 - Community councils-Municipal        services recommendations.

A. The community council shall be encouraged to develop priorities regarding municipal services
   and facilities. These recommendations should be communicated in writing to the metro
   township council on an annual basis for use in policy development and in the budget process.
   Community councils are encouraged to arrive at such recommendations pursuant to duly held
   and well-publicized public meetings.


B.   The metro township council may request municipal service providers and encourage elected
     officials and appointed board members to provide key personnel on a requested basis as staff
     and resource persons to the community council.


2.56.100 - Community councils - Planning and zoning information sent to community councils.

A. The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District planning and development services section,
   or contracted designee, shall submit to the chair and the designated planning and zoning
   member of each community council copies of the planning commission public meeting
   agendas, applications for text changes to the zoning ordinance, general plan amendments,
   zoning or conditional use applications pertaining to real property located within metro
   township.


B.   The staff of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District planning and development
     services section , or contracted designee, shall notify the community council on planning and
     zoning matters, and the date and time of the planning commission meeting.
2.56.110 - Budget.
A. The metro township council may budget monies annually for the community councils which
   will be spent for administrative costs, including, but not limited to, legal notices, elections,
   newsletters, computers and software, other office equipment, dues to the association of
   community councils, metro township-sponsored community events and community council
   outreach activities or events, postage, stationary, and duplication costs. Funding will be
   provided pursuant to budgeted amounts and upon direction of the metro township council.


B. Community councils receiving funds from the metro township shall establish a fiscal year in
   their bylaws and make written budget requests, if any funding is requested, to the metro
   township council by May 1st of each year unless otherwise agreed to by the Metro Township
   Council. Within ninety days following the close of the community council's fiscal year, it shall
   file a detailed financial statement with the identified metro township designee. The statement
   shall set out community council revenues and expenditures for the prior year and shall be in a
   form approved by the metro township council.


2.56.120 - Metro Township council participation.
    The metro township council shall schedule at least one meeting annually with the community
councils for the purposes of receiving recommendations on policy, budget and other priorities.


2.56.130 - Volunteer status-Indemnification.
     Community council members shall be considered volunteers to the metro township and not
employees, officials or officers of the metro township. Community council members shall be
defended and indemnified by the metro township pursuant to the provisions of the Utah
Governmental Immunity Act in any civil action which may arise within the course and scope of
performance of their duties under this chapter.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Magna, Salt Lake County, Utah this ,2 0                                  day of
 -;J'a,AL~   ,   .2-0/ 7


                                                    By: ~   =:'.'.:.....l.= ~-=-   !!C:....._--\,.~   :::s..d =-;;   ~-


                                                         DAN W. PEAY, CHAIR



ATTEST                                                   APPROVED AS TO FORM:



~/,,,".·, J w~
SHERRIE SWENSEN
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK                                   METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER


VOTING
COUNCILMEMBER FERGUSON         __,fic\il
                                   __._.__
                                         __

COUNCILMEMBER HULL             _,_
                                k'\
                                ..:..--.,__c
                                    <J
                                     c_ _
COUNCILMEMBERPEAY                kW
COUNCILMEMBER PEEL              ~
COUNCILMEMBER PRO KOPIS           h:'-\_V


                                              (Complete as Applicable)
                                              Ordinance published in newspaper:
                                              Date: --      -
                                              Effective date of ordinance: --
                                       SUMMARYOF
                MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO.               \   1- 0 It)--0J/

On the    d/2 day of ~J(,/):            , 2017, the Magna Metro Township Council adopted
Ordinance No. M-Dlp1)'L, anordinance establishing Chapter 2.56-COMMUNITY
COUNCILS for the purpose of promoting volunteer service and improved governance for
Magna.


                                             MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL:




ATTESTED:                                               Approved as to Form:




Sherrie Swensen, County Clerk                           METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER


Voting:
Councilmember Ferguson voting       ~
Councilmember Hull voting           ~"{{;
Councilmember Peay voting           fs-~,V
Councilmember Peel voting            ~'\{J
Councilmember Prokopis voting        Nj fl



A complete copy of Ordinance No.\1·D~~V is available in the office of the Salt Lake County
Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.
