                                                    Council Staff Report
Meeting Body: Magna City                           BACKGROUND/ ISSUES TO CONSIDER
Council
                                       In June 2023, Magna repealed and replaced its Titles 18 and 19,
Meeting Date: December 10 ,    th
                                       the Subdivision and Zoning ordinances respectively. Staff have
2024
                                       been using the ordinance for a year and have noted that a few of
File Number & Project Type:            the provisions could be amended to clarify what the ordinance is
OAM2024-001293- Magna                  requiring, recalibrate the wording to reflect the legislative intent,
Zoning Ordinance Revisions
                                       and/or respond to requests from the Planning Commission or
Applicability: Citywide                Council.
Planner: Brian Tucker,
                                                           PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Planning Manager

Applicant: Magna Staff                 The proposed ordinance:

Key Findings:                          Amending Titles 18 and 19 to replace Magna Township with
•   A code section requiring           Magna or Magna City as appropriate;
    infrastructure and public
                                       Clarifies when infrastructure and public improvements must be
    improvements to be installed
    by a developer was
                                       installed by a developer subject to the limitations on exactions in
    inadvertently left out of the      Utah Code;
    adopted Title 19 in 2023,
                                       Clarifies that Internal and Attached Dwelling Units may only be
•   The parking of commercial
    vehicles in residential areas is
                                       constructed on single family lots with 6,000 square feet or greater;
    not desirable, but is              Amends the definition of Commercial Vehicles and clarifies the
    acceptable in limited
                                       circumstances in which Commercial Vehicles may be parked in R-
    circumstances,
•   Animal rights were never
                                       1 and R-2 zones;
    intended to be allowed on          Clarifies that there is a 1 acre minimum for new development in
    lots with less than 20,000
                                       the A-1 zone, which seemed to be the consensus based on the
    square feet,
                                       workshop discussions that lead to the Title 19 repeal and replace
Staff Recommendation: The              in June 2023;
Magna Planning Commission
and Planning Staff recommend           Clarifies that a lot must include 20,000 square feet to have "animal
that the Council approve the           rights";
attached ordinance.
                                       Requires an "all weather surface" in Storage and Salvage Yards;
Exhibits:

    A. Proposed Ordinance              Requires trees and landscaping to be trimmed to 14.5" above the
                                       street; and


                             [OAM2024-001293 / Magna Ordinance Clean Up / November 26, 2024] | Page 1 of 2
Adds or clarifies the definitions for "Off Premise Signs", "Animal Rights", "Alteration",
"Clustering", "Expansion”, “Grading", "Grading", “Natural Open Space", "Net Developable
Acreage", "Retaining Wall", "Site Plan", "Slope", "Stream, Ephemeral", "Stream, Perennial",
"Stream Corridor", "Substantial economic hardship", "Undevelopable", and "Waiver".

                                STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff find that:

    1. A code section requiring infrastructure and public improvements to be installed by a
       developer was inadvertently left out of the adopted Title 19 in 2023,

    2. These improvement installation requirements are subject to the limitations on
       exactions in the Utah Code,

    3. The legislative intent in adopting an ADU ordinance was that lots with less than 6,000
       square feet would not be allowed to build ADU’s,

    4. The parking of commercial vehicles in residential areas is not desirable, but is
       acceptable in limited circumstances,

    5. The workshop consensus for a 1 acre lot area requirement in the A-1 zone needed to
       be clarified to reflect the legislative intent,

    6. Animal rights were never intended to be allowed on lots with less than 20,000 square
       feet,

    7. An "all weather surface" is necessary to ensure adequate storm water pollution
       prevention,

    8. Commercial vehicles can often exceed 13.5’ in height, but rarely exceed 14.5’ in height,

    9. Clear definitions of the words and phrases used in titles 18 and 19 are essential to
       administering those titles.

Given the above findings, staff recommend the following action:

The Magna Planning Commission and Planning Staff recommend that the Council approve
the attached ordinance.




                   [OAM2024-001293 / Magna Ordinance Clean Up / November 26, 2024] | Page 2 of 2
                            Magna Ordinance Clean Up, Fall 2024
Remove References to Metro Township, Replacing with Magna City or Magna, as
appropriate in Titles 18 and 19.
Clarify when infrastructure and public improvements must be installed by a developer
subject to the limitations on exactions in Utah Code.
19.46.120 Infrastructure and Public Improvements
The minimum requirements for public improvements shall be a combination of standards set forth
in Title 14 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places and applicable standards set forth in this Title
or adopted in the municipality’sMagna’s Master Transportation Plan.
A. Off-Site Improvements Required.
   1. Off-Site Improvements. Subject to the essential link and rough proportionality tests for
      exactions in Utah Code Section 10-9a-508, an applicant for a building or land use permit
      for a dwelling, or a commercial or industrial use shall provide curb, gutter, sidewalk and
      urban hydrology improvements along the entire property line which abuts any public road
      or street in cases where it does not exist at municipal standards.
   2. Access to public right of ways. New and reconstructed vehicular entrances to the property
      shall be provided as required in Section 14.12.110. Height, location, structural
      specifications, maximum and minimum cut radii and minimum roadway approach angles
      to the centerline of the street are subject to the approval of the Municipal Engineering
      Division.
   3. Exceptions.
       1. The planning commission may grant exception to the installation of the sidewalk in
          industrial areas where the planning commission determines that the sidewalk is not
          necessary to serve the public need, and the elimination of the sidewalk does not
          jeopardize the public health, safety or welfare.
       2. The planning commission may grant exception to the installation of curb, gutter and
          sidewalk in rural or estate areas where topographic or other exceptional conditions
          exist, provided that the public health, safety and welfare is preserved.
       3. The planning commission may require the applicant to sign a delay agreement binding
          the current and future property owner to pay for their share of any required
          improvements that are installed by Magna City within 10 years of the waiver.
B. Acceptance of Public Streets.
   1. Street lighting shall either be chosen from the municipality’s approved streetlight list or
      installed to match a theme set by developments within the zone or neighborhood.
   2. Street lighting shall be installed in conformance with Title 18.
   3. Street Signs and Markers. Standard street name signs shall be installed at one corner of
      all street intersections. The size, design, materials, location, fabrication, installation, and
      maintenance of the signs and poles within the public right of way and elsewhere shall be
        in accordance with the Utah Department of Transportation, the Manual of Uniform Traffic
        Control Devices for Streets and Highways (MUTCD), or the municipality’s adopted
        policies, as applicable.
C. Private Streets.
     1. Private streets or roads shall be designed and constructed to meet or exceed the public
        street standards set forth in Title 14 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places, as
        applicable.
        a. Private streets or roads are allowed in the following circumstances:
            (i) If shown on an approved development plan as private streets;
            (ii) For multi-family developments; and
            (iii) For residential subdivisions if the street is equally shared between properties. Such
                  streets shall have a maintenance and operations plan included in the declaration
                  of covenants, conditions, and restrictions for the subdivision.
D. Ingress and Egress Requirements. No building with human occupiable space may be erected
   or enlarged on a parcel in any zone unless such parcel abuts upon or has access to a publicly
   accepted and maintained street, a private driveway leading to an approved public street, a
   private road, or a public or private alley.
E. Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility. In all zones which require a front yard, no obstruction
   to view in excess of three feet (3’) in height may be placed on any corner lot within a triangular
   area formed by the street property lines or right-of-way lines and a line connecting them at
   points forty feet (40’) from the intersection of the street lines, except mature trees which are
   located in the clear sight triangle shall be pruned to a height of at least seven feet (7') above
   the established sidewalk or street elevation.
F. Intersecting Streets and Driveways. In all zones, no view obstruction, including a sight-
   obscuring fence, wall, sign, other similar structures, and landscaping which exceeds three feet
   (3’) in height shall be placed within a triangular area formed by a diagonal line connecting
   lines located at the curb line or sidewalk line and driveway line ten feet (10’) from the projected
   intersection of such lines.
G. Acceptance of Private Streets. Prior to acceptance by the municipality, any private street, or
   any driveway allowed for access with a development that is not constructed and maintained
   to the municipality’s adopted street standards shall be improved to the municipality’s adopted
   street standards.
H. Driveways. A driveway shall be allowed for vehicular access according to the standards set
   forth in Title 14 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places, and Chapter 19.48 Parking and
   Mobility.
I.   Pedestrian and Bicycle Mobility.
     1. Each lot shall have pedestrian walkways and sidewalks that provide connections between
        the building entrances, neighboring building entrances, parking areas, open space, and
        public trail. Such systems shall be designed to connect with all elements within the
       development, adjacent areas, and transit stops and can include sidewalks along public or
       private streets, wide outside travel lanes, bike lanes on roadways, and walkways and trails
       in alternative locations as appropriate. Design, location, dimensions, dedications,
       easements, and reservations shall conform to applicable municipal policies and standards
       for sidewalks, bicycle routes, and trails.
   2. Walkways and trails shall be designed to maximize the safety of users and the security of
      adjoining properties with respect to location, visibility, and landscaping.
   3. Bicycle Facilities. Bicycle facilities shall be provided in accordance with the standards set
      forth in Chapter 19.48 Parking and Mobility.
Clarify that Internal and Attached Dwelling Units may only be constructed in single family
lots with 6,000 square feet or greater.
19.42.030 Accessory Dwelling Unit
B. Allowable Areas and Zones.
   1. Internal Accessory Dwelling Units (IADU) and Attached Accessory Dwelling Units
      (AADU) are permitted uses in the R, A and PC zones as identified in the use tables in
      this Title. IADU’s and AADU’s may only be constructed on lots with an area of 6,000
      square feet or greater.
   2. Detached Accessory Dwelling Units (DADD)U) are a permitted use in the R, A and PC
      zones as identified in the use tables in this Title. A detached ADU may be constructed on
      lots with an area of 8,000 square feet or greater. Detached ADUs in a PC Zone are
      permitted on lots with a minimum area of 6,000 square feet if Magna has approved
      design standards for the same as part of a development agreement.
   3. In no case may an ADU be permitted in, or accessory to, a townhome, a multi-family
      PUD or other attached unit type, or on any lot that cannot satisfy parking, setback, or lot
      coverage requirements.
   4. The grounds of a church, synagogue, mosque or other religious institution may include
      one attached or detached accessory dwelling unit for the use of the leader of the
      congregation, a caretaker, or other employee of the congregation. A detached ADU may
      be constructed on lots with an area of 12,000 square feet or greater. The lot shall include
      both the primary religious building and the accessory dwelling unit.
Amend the definition of Commercial Vehicles and clarify the circumstances in which
Commercial Vehicles may be parked in R-1 and R-2 zones
19.04.020 General Definitions
A. General terms used in Title 19 are defined as follows:
   80. "Vehicle, Commercial" means any motorized vehicle or trailer used for or intended for
       business use - including but not limited to the transportation of commercial equipment,
       merchandise, produce, freight, commodities, passengers, or animals - and which is
       characterized by any of the following:
       a. Heavy equipment, such as earth movers, backhoes, cranes, forklifts, bulldozers, and
          the like, which are commonly used for construction, excavation, demolition, or lifting;
       b. Vehicles used to haul equipment or materials, such as dump trucks, tanker trucks,
          semi-tractors, semi-trailers, cement trucks, or other similar vehicles;
       c. Pickup trucks over one ton with a commercial modification, such as a flat bed, a
          dumping mechanism, mechanical lifts or arms for loading and unloading
          materials/equipment, aerial buckets or platforms, or other similar features;
       d. Vehicles exceeding Class 5 (two-axle, six tire single unit trucks) in the Federal
          Highway Administration vehicle category classification with more than two axles; or
       e. Vehicles with a payload capacity of more than eight thousand five hundred (8,500)
          pounds.
19.48.040 Standards for Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones
E. Commercial Vehicles. Commercial vehicles may not be parked or stored on residential
   property in an R-1 or R-2 zone, except in the following circumstances:
   1. Commercial vehicles may be parked on a property in conjunction with lawfully permitted
      construction, maintenance, or site development activities so long as said activities are
      diligently pursued.
   2. Subject to Subsection 4, Oone commercial vehicle may be parked behind the front line
      of the dwelling and screened from view from public streets or neighboring properties with
      an opaque fence that is at least six feet (6’) tall, provided it is parked on a paved surface.
      The commercial vehicle may not exceed Class 5 (two (2)-axle, six (6)-tire single unit
      trucks) in Federal Highway Administration vehicle classification.
   3. Subject to Subsection 4, Oone commercial vehicle may be parked in the front yard or
      side yard of a dwelling in the R-1 or R-2 Zones upon issuance of a permit by Planning
      and Development Services, as long as all of the following criteria are met:
       a. No other commercial vehicle is parked or stored on the property;
       b. The operator of the vehicle is required to be on call twenty-four (24) hours a day to
          use the vehicle in response to an emergency;
       c. The commercial vehicle is parked on a paved surface; and
       d. The commercial vehicle is parked entirely on private property, not parked on or over
          the street or sidewalk: and.
   4. e.      Prohibited Commercial Vehicles. The following commercial vehicles are
      prohibited from being parked in an R-1 or R-2 Zone except as provided for in Subsection
      1:
       a. Heavy equipment, such as earth movers, backhoes, cranes, forklifts, bulldozers, and
          the like, which are commonly used for construction, excavation, demolition, or lifting;
       b. Vehicles used to haul equipment or materials, such as dump trucks, tanker trucks,
          semi-tractors, semi-trailers, cement trucks, or other similar vehicles; and
       c. The commercial vVehicles does not exceeding Class 5 (two-axle, six tire single unit
          trucks) in the Federal Highway Administration vehicle category classification.
Clarify 1 acre minimum for new development in the A-1 zone.

19.26.050 Lot Area, Lot Width, Lot Coverage
A. Development in the A-1 and A-2 Zones shall comply with the development standards of Table
   19.26.050 and all other applicable standards in this Title.

              Table 19.26.050 – Development Standards in Agricultural Zones.

         Zone             Minimum Lot Area         Minimum Lot Width          Maximum Lot
                                                                            Coverage (Primary
                                                                               Buildings)

          A-1             10,000 Sq Ft/1 Acre1         65/100 Feet                  35%

         A-20                   20 Acres                 200 Feet                   30%


   1. Subdivision lots that met the area, width and frontage requirements existing prior to the
      adoption of this ordinance are legal, nonconforming lots. Lots created subsequent to the
      adoption of this ordinance must include one (1) acre and have a minimum lot width of one
      hundred (100) feet.


Clarify that a lot must include 20,000 square feet to have "animal rights".
19.42.060 - Animal Rights.
Animal Rights, where allowed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable zone, are also
subject to the following standards:
A. Parcels containing fewer than twenty thousand square feet (20,000 sq. ft.) are prohibited
   from keeping animals under the animal rights provisions in this Section.
A.B. When a parcel with animal rights contains at least twenty thousand square feet (20,000
   sq. ft.) but fewer than 5.25 acres, that parcel may hold no more than one animal unit and their
   seasonal offspring for each ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
B.C. When a parcel or group of contiguous parcels with shared ownership contains more than
   5.25 acres, that parcel or group of parcels may hold no more than one animal unit and their
   seasonal offspring for each five thousand (5,000) square feet.
C.D. No animals or fowl may be kept or maintained closer than 40 feet to any dwelling on an
   adjacent parcel of land. No barn, stable, coop, pen, or corral shall be kept closer than 40 feet
   to any street.
D.E. Applicant shall submit a manure management plan, which shall address mitigation of
   stormwater runoff, odor, and flies, and shall include the following:
   1. Clean-up of manure and off-site deposit of the same in warm -weather seasons. Manure
      storage or composting is allowed in accordance with Salt Lake County Health Department
      General Sanitation Regulation regarding composting.
   2. Siting of newly constructed stalls to protect surface water, drainageways, wellheads,
      streams and irrigation ditches.
   3. Bedding system such as stall mats, hay, wood shaving, and/or wood pellets.
E.F. Provisions in the FR or FA zones related to horses shall govern over this section and its
   associated definitions. A horse shall be considered a large animal, but the number of horses
   allowed in the FR or FA zones shall not be increased or diminished by this section or its
   associated definitions.
Require an "all weather surface" in Storage and Salvage Yards.
19.42.320 Storage and Salvage Yards
Storage yards and salvage yards, when listed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable
zone, are subject to the following requirements:
A. No portion of the storage area shall be located within three hundred feet (300') of any
   residential zone or use lot line.
B. Any outdoor storage area shall be completely enclosed by a fence or wall no less than six feet
   (6') in height, constructed of a sturdy, durable material and sufficiently opaque to ensure that
   the stored material is not visible from outside the storage area. The fence or wall shall have a
   minimum of two (2) non-transparent gates not exceeding forty-eight feet (48') in width
   providing access to the storage area for vehicles but may not allow direct view of the storage
   area from adjacent properties or streets. Said fence or wall shall be continuously maintained
   in good condition and may contain only approved signs.
C. Each salvage or storage yard shall include a masonry wall along the entirety of each street
   frontage. This wall shall be constructed at the front setback line required for buildings in the
   underlying zone. The storage or salvage area may not be no closer to street than the front
   facade of the building. The Director may accept a landscaped berm in lieu of the masonry wall
   if the height, width, and berm landscaping fully screen the storage or salvage areas. A berm
   allowed in lieu of a masonry wall shall include live plant material that covers no less than fifty
   percent (50%) of the berm with grasses, bushes, ground cover or tree canopies. Trees and
   bushes shall be at least twenty five percent (25%) evergreen.
D. Stored materials may not be stacked higher than six feet (6') and shall be stored in a manner
   so as not to be visible from adjoining properties or rights-of-way. In no case may salvage or
   junk be stored at a height exceeding the height of the storage area fence or wall. Operational
   vehicles and motorized equipment are not subject to the height requirement for storage. No
   inoperable vehicle or equipment may be stored within the outdoor storage areas. Permitted
   salvage yards are the only allowable storage areas for inoperable vehicles or equipment.
E. The surface of the storage yard shall be covered with an all-weather surface. Any stormwater
   or other runoff from the site shall be contained on the site and disposed of through an on-site
   drainage system, in conformance with applicable regulations to enforce the requirements of
   the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination Systems (NPDES) permit.
F. Outdoor storage shall be kept and maintained in a neat and orderly manner. Outdoor storage
   may not include dirt, manure, gravel, rocks, sand, bark, or similar materials, unless the items
   are stored in bags, on pallets, or on other individually sealed containers.
G. A management office shall be provided on site. A caretaker unit may be permitted for security
   personnel or on-site operator.
H. Conditions within the storage area shall be controlled to minimize the hazards of fire and other
   threats to health and safety. Conditions within the storage area shall be controlled to minimize
   the hazards of fire and other threats to health and safety. Product, salvage, or other storage
   shall be stored in rows with a continuously looping drive aisles with a minimum width of twenty
   feet (20').
I.   Requests for a permit for a salvage yard shall also require submission of a detailed proposal
     identifying the predominant type of salvage to be received, the methods of separation and/or
     recycling, and ultimate destination of all salvaged, recycled, and waste materials. The
     applicant shall submit written materials outlining measures taken to comply with all necessary
     state, county, and local laws.
J. All batteries shall be removed from any vehicle, and all radiator and fuel tanks shall be drained
   prior to the vehicle being placed in a salvagethe storage yard. Salvaged batteries, oil and
   other such substances shall be removed by a licensed disposal company and be stored in a
   manner which prevents leakage of battery fluid. No fluids removed from vehicles may be
   applied as a dust control method, or otherwise allowed to be discharged upon the ground.
K. Vehicle parts may not be stored, loaded, unloaded, or dismantled outside the fence enclosing
   the salvage yard.
L. In order to protect surrounding areas, business operations, including loading and unloading
   operations shall be limited to daylight hours.
Require trees and landscaping to be trimmed to 14.5" above the street.
19.50.200 Tree and Landscaping Trimming
A. In addition to the other standards of this Chapter, the property owner is responsible for
   maintaining all trees and landscaping on the property and adjacent park strips to the
   following standards.
     1. Trees and landscaping which overhang the street pavement shall be trimmed to a
        minimum height of fourteenthirteen and one-half feet (14.513.5’) above the street
        pavement.
     2. Trees and landscaping which overhang the sidewalk shall be trimmed to a minimum
        height of eight and one-half feet (8.5’) above the sidewalk.
     3. The abutting property owner shall remove any tree, tree stump, shrub or vine in or within
        twenty feet (20’) of the right-of-way if that tree, tree stump, shrub, or vine is dead,
        diseased, or determined by the Director or Designee to be undesirable for any other
        reason.
   4. If trees or landscaping are determined by the Director or Designee to be an imminent
      threat to public health and safety, the municipality may proceed with an emergency
      abatement, as outlined in Title 12.
   5. Noxious Trees. Noxious trees shall be controlled and contained according to the
      recommendations of the Utah Department of Agriculture and Food.
B. Enforcement. This Section shall be enforced according to the provisions of Title 12 of the
   Magna Municipal Code.
Adding or Clarifying Deﬁnitions in Chapter 19.04.

19.04.020 General Deﬁnitions

"Alteration" means any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an existing
structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, or interior partitions, or any change in
the dimensions or configurations of the roof or exterior walls.
"Animal Rights" means the keeping of livestock and fowl on lots and parcels containing at least
twenty thousand (20,000) square feet. The keeping of livestock and fowl is, limited to one animal
unit and their seasonal offspring for each ten (10,000) thousand square feet. Household pets are
not subject to these limits.
"Clustering" means a development or subdivision design technique that concentrates buildings or
lots on a part of the site to allow the remaining land to be used for recreation, common open
space, and/or preservation of environmentally sensitive areas.
"Expansion" means an increase in the size of an existing structure or use, including physical size
of the property, building, parking, and other improvements.
"Grading" means any change of existing surface conditions by excavating, placing of any soils or
rocks, or stripping of vegetation.
"Net developable acreage" is defined as land with all of the following:
   a. An average slope less than thirty percent; and
   b. Free from any identified natural hazards such as flood, avalanche, landslide, high water
      table and similar features. See Chapter 19.56 (Floodplain Hazard Regulations) and
      Chapter 19.58 (Geological Hazard Regulations).
"Site plan" means an accurately scaled plan that illustrates the existing conditions on a land parcel
and the details of a proposed development, including but not limited to: topography; vegetation;
drainage; flood plains; wetlands; waterways; landscaping and open space; walkways; means of
ingress and egress; circulation; utility easements and services; structures and buildings; lighting;
berms, buffers and screening devices; development on adjacent property; and any other
information that may be required to make an informed decision.
"Slope" means the level of inclination from the horizontal, determined by dividing, in fifty foot
intervals, the average horizontal run of the slope into the average vertical rise of the same slope
and converting the resulting figure into a percentage value.
"Stream, Ephemeral" means those channels, swales, gullies, or low areas that do not have flow
year-round or are not shown on United States Geological Services (U.S.G.S.) topographic maps
as perennial streams. These are generally channels that are tributary to perennial streams, other
ephemeral streams, terminal low areas, ponds, or lakes. They are typically dry except during
periods of snowmelt runoff or intense rainfall. (Contrast with "Stream, Perennial.")
"Stream, Perennial" means those streams, excluding ephemeral streams, or ditches and canals
constructed for irrigation and drainage purposes, which flow year-round during years of normal
rainfall, and that are identified on the appropriate United States Geological Services (U.S.G.S.)
topographic maps as perennial streams. (Contrast with "Stream, Ephemeral.")
"Stream corridor" means the corridor defined by a perennial stream's ordinary high water mark.
"Substantial economic hardship" means a denial of all reasonable economic use of a property.
"Undevelopable" means strict application of this title prevents the minimum development
necessary to establish a permitted or conditional use in the underlying zone on the property.
"Waiver" means permission to depart from the requirements of an Ordinance with respect to the
application of a specific regulation.
19.04.030 Site Standard Deﬁnitions

"Natural open space" means land in a predominantly open and undeveloped condition that is
suitable for any of the following: natural areas; wildlife and native plant habitat; important wetlands
or watershed lands; stream corridors; passive, low-impact activities; little or no land disturbance;
or trails for non-motorized activities.
"Retaining wall" means a wall designed and constructed to resist the lateral displacement and
erosion of soils or other materials.
19.04.060 Sign Deﬁnitions

“Off-Premise Sign” means a sign identifying or advertising a business, person, activity, goods,
products or service, which is not related to, or available at the premises where the sign in located.
