MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO.: 19-09-01 DATE: SEPTEMBER 10, 2019
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
AMENDING POLICY #2 — PURCHASING, CONTRACTING, AND
PROCUREMENT ADDING AN ARTICLE TO THE POLICY TO
INCLUDE THE USE OF APPROVED VENDORS FOR THE PURCHASE
OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
RECITALS

A. The Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) is a municipality pursuant to Utah Code §§ 10-2a-
401 et seq.

B. The Magna Metro Township Council (the “Council”) is the municipal legislative body for

| Magna pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-501.

|

| C. On January 9, 2018 the Council adopted Ordinance 18-01-01 Creating Policy #2 —
Purchasing, Contracting and Procurement (“Policy #2”) to provide a process for Magna to
procure goods and services for the operation of the municipality.

D. During the Council meeting of August 13, 2019 it was directed by the Council that Policy #2
be amended to add a section to allow the Purchasing Agent and Council to procure goods
and services using the Approved Vendor Lists maintained by the State of Utah and Salt Lake
County, respectively.

E. During the development of the Policy #2 amendments, it was discovered the Magna Water
Improvement District Approved Vendors List also provided a valuable resource for the
Municipality to procure services.

F. Using Approved Vendors can make Magna’s procurement of goods and services effective
and efficient; and save the municipality money.

RESOLUTION
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Magna Metro Township Council hereby approves the
attached amendment to Policy #2, hereinafter to be known as Exhibit A, to allow the use of
|
Approved Vendors for the provision of goods and services for the municipality.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Magna, Salt Lake County, Utah this /@7_ day of
SEPTEMBER, 2019.
FOR THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP:
ATTEST
Q, an) DAN W. PEAY, MAYQ
SHERRIE SWENSEN
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK APPROVED AS TO FORM:
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER
PAUL H. ASHTON
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
VOTING:
COUNCILMEMBER HULL pete
MAYOR PEAY a e
COUNCILMEMBER PEEL K 1S)
COUNCILMEMBER PIERCE ANS
COUNCILMEMBER PROKOPIS pero

ARTICLE - Purchases Using Approved Vendors
Section 1 — Purpose of Policy
The purpose of this Article of the Policy is to allow the Mayor and Council to

more effectively and efficiently procure services when work needs to be done to avoid

higher costs of repair or replacement. Using contractors from a pre-approved list from
which to solicit bids directly may significantly reduce the time between problem

identification and resolution.

Section 2 — Definitions

1) “Approved Vendor” means a vendor that has been vetted and pre-approved for
consideration to perform certain work for a governmental entity.

2) “Approved Vendor List” means a register of pre-approved vendors maintained by
either 1) the State of Utah, 2) Salt Lake County, or 3) the Magna Water District.

3) “Council” means the Magna Metro Township Council, the municipal legislative
body of Magna, or its successor.

4) “Public Infrastructure” means all public infrastructure owned by Magna that, if it
fails, may place residents’ life, health, safety, and/or property at risk to damage or
destruction. Infrastructure items may include but are not limited to municipality-
owned public roadways, streetlights, storm drains and related appurtenances,
computers, software, and buildings.

5) “Emergency Event” means an event, either natural or man-made that may result in
damages to the Municipality’s public infrastructure.

6) “Magna” means the Magna Metro Township — a municipality pursuant to state
law, or its successor.

7) “Public Works Director” means the Director of Public Works for Magna, or MSD-
contracted designee/designated agency.

8) “Purchasing Agent” means the person identified by the Municipality to purchase
goods and services for the Municipality. May also be referred to as the “Agent.”

9) “Qualified Bid” means a bid received from a vendor that is determined by the
Purchasing Agent to be sufficiently provided to the price and scope of work
requested.

Section 3 — Direct Contact of Approved Vendors for Bids when determined of benefit by
the Purchasing Agent

1) When determining when to use Direct Contact with Approved Vendors, the
Purchasing Agent may qualify their need based on, but not limited to, the
following criteria:

a. Public Infrastructure Failure

i. When a part or portion of the Municipality’s public infrastructure
has been identified as having failed by the Public Works Director,
the Purchasing Agent may choose to directly solicit bids from
companies contained on an approved vendor list identified for use by

| the Municipality if the following situations exist:
1. The failure is determined by the Public Works Director to
pose
a. A public health and/or safety risk; and/or
b. Imminent risk to creating a significantly escalated
repair cost if work to repair the infrastructure is
delayed;
2. And,
3. It is determined by the Public Works Director the cost of
performing the repair is expected to be less than $100,000.
b. Public Infrastructure at Imminent Risk of Failure

1. When a part or portion of the Municipality’s public infrastructure,
during its inspection, has been identified by the Public Works
Director to be at imminent failure, the Purchasing Agent may choose
to directly solicit bids from companies contained on an approved
vendor list identified for use by the Municipality if the following
situations exist:

1. The failure is determined by the Public Works Director to
pose
a. A public health and/or safety risk; and/or
b. Imminent risk to creating a significantly escalated
repair cost if work to repair the infrastructure is
delayed;
2. And,
3. It is determined by the Public Works Director the cost of
performing the repair is expected to be less than $100,000.
c. Public infrastructure required for the daily conduct of business that can
impair or delay the administrative conduct of the public business.

i.. When certain municipal infrastructure used by the municipality may
be purchased through direct contact with approved vendors if it is
determined by the Purchasing Agent and respective Department
Director to be unable to perform necessary work due to changes in

1. laws,

2. ordinances,

3. administrative processes; or
4. technology platforms

ii. And,
iii. The purchase is determined to cost less than $40,000.
Section 4 — Direct Contact of Approved Vendor Bids; Purchasing Agent’s Process
1) Ifit is decided by the Purchasing Agent to pursue a direct contact bid process
using companies from an approved vendor list, the Purchasing Agent shall
a. Maintain a record of all communications between the Agent and all vendors
contacted from which a bid is requested; and,
b. Must receive a minimum of two (2) qualified bids from the approved
vendors contacted.
2) Final Approval of all direct contact of approved vendors purchases must be
approved by the council prior to the execution of the contract.
3) Recommendations for purchases to be considered for Council Approval shall be
based on “Best Price/Best Service Delivery” as determined by the Purchasing
Agent.
