MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO:: 23-07-01 DATE: July 25, 2023
A RESOLUTION OF MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR TO ENTER INTO AN
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP AND SALT LAKE COUNTY
RELATING TO THE TRANSFER AND CONVEYANCE OF THE
LAMPLIGHT VILLAGE PARK LOCATED AT 3645 SOUTH ELK
POINT DRIVE, MAGNA, UTAH TO THE MAGNA METRO
TOWNSHIP
WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township ("Magna") is a Municipality pursuant to Utah
Code §§ 10-2a-401 et seq; and
WHEREAS, Magna is governed by a five-member elected Council under Utah Code Ann.§
10-3-205.5, which Council elects from its members a Mayor, and
WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-202 provides that any two or more pubiic agencies
may enter into an agreement with one another for joint or cooperative actions; and
WHEREAS. UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-214 provides that any public agency may convey
property to or acquire property from any other public agencies for consideration as may be agreed upon;
and
WHEREAS, Magna and the County are public agencies as contemplated in the above referenced
sections of the Utah Code (more specifically referred to as UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-101, er seg.
Interlocal Cooperation Act); and
WHEREAS, the conveyance of property provided herein is an interest in real property as
contemplated in the Interlocal Cooperation Act; and
WHEREAS, the County owns a parcel of real property known as Lamplight Village Park (the
“Park”), located at approximately 3645 South Elk Point Dr., Magna, Salt Lake County, State of Utah
84044 (Parcel No. 14-3 2-104-001-000, and as further described in the Quit Claim Deed attached hereto
as Exhibit A), which is real property in the public use as a public park; and
WHEREAS, the County desires to formally transfer and convey the Park to Magna, and Magna
desires to formally take and receive the Park from the County, for the purposes and on the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement,
NOW THEREFORE IT IS RESOLVED, by the Magna Metro Township Council,
Magna, Utah:

Section 1. The Magna Metro Township Council hereby authorizes the Mayor to enter
into an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between Magna Metro Township and Salt Lake County
relating to transfer and conveyance of the Lamplight Village Park located at 3645 South Elk
Point Drive, Magna, Utah as set forth in Attachment A.

Section 2. —_ This resolution shall take effect immediately.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Magna Metro Township Council, in Magna, Salt
Lake County, Utah this 25" day of July 2023.
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP:
DAN-W-PEAY, MAYOR (44 Lye
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
‘ 4 Lau lh fF - PAUL H. kis ‘

SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER

VOTING BY COUNCIL:

MAYOR PEAY _ ex cecte cl

COUNCIL MEMBER HULL ved

COUNCIL MEMBER BARNEY yee

COUNCIL MEMBER PROKOPIS yet
COUNCIL MEMBER PIERCE excece of

County Contract No.
DA’s Contract No. 23CIV000513
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
THIS IN TERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT (“Agreement”), is made
effective this 2sday of stab 2023, by and between SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body
corporate and politic of the state of Utah (“County”), and the metro township of MAGNA, a
municipal corporation of the State of Utah (“Magna”). County and Magna may each be referred to
herein individually as a “Party” and jointly as the “Parties.”
RECITALS
WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-202 provides that any two or more public
agencies may enter into an agreement with one another for joint or cooperative actions; and
WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-214 provides that any public agency may convey
property to or acquire property from any other public agencies for consideration as may be
agreed upon; and
WHEREAS, Magna and the County are public agencies as contemplated in the above
referenced sections of the Utah Code (more specifically referred to as UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-
101, et seq. - Interlocal Cooperation Act); and
WHEREAS, the conveyance of property provided herein is an interest in real property as.
contemplated in the Interlocal Cooperation Act; and
WHEREAS, the County owns a parcel of real property known as Lamplight Village Park
(the “Park”), located at approximately 3645 South Elk Point Dr., Magna, Salt Lake County, State
of Utah 84044 (Parcel No. 14-32-104-001-0000, and as further described in the Quitclaim Deed
attached hereto as Exhibit A), which is real property in the public use as a public park; and
WHEREAS, the County desires to formally transfer and convey the Park to Magna, and
Magna desires to formally take and receive the Park from the County, for the purposes and on
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
AGREEMENT
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises set forth herein, and for other good
and valuable consideration, the receipt and legal sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the
Parties hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. Conveyance, The County shall convey the Park to Magna via quitclaim deed
(hereinafter “Quitclaim Deed”), for the purpose of operating and maintaining neighborhood park.

Magna shall be solely responsible for maintaining the Park and shall repair or replace
improvements thereon as necessary to maintain its current function and use.
Section 2. Consideration. County and Magna agree that in consideration of the mutual
benefit afforded the citizens of Magna and County, the restrictions on use identified in Section 3,
and the exchange of agreed upon consideration in accordance with Section 11-13-214 of the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, the County will convey the Park to Magna as outlined herein.
Section 3. Use Restriction. The Park shall be used by Magna solely as a public park:
A. The Quitclaim Deed conveying the Park shall include a perpetual restriction requiring
the Park to be used by Magna or its successors in interest solely as a public park or
Open space, and in the event Magna ceases using any portion of the Park as a public
park or open space, the Park will revert to County in its entirety. The form of the
Quitclaim Deed is attached hereto as Exhibits A.
Section 4. Operation of the Park, Upon transfer of the Park to Magna, Magna shall be
solely responsible for the operation and maintenance of the Park, and Magna shall indemnify
County from and against all liabilities, claims, damages, losses, suits, judgments, causes of
action, liens, fines, penalties, costs, and expenses (including, but not limited to, court costs,
attomeys’ fees, and costs of investigation) directly or indirectly arising out of, caused by, or
resulting from, in whole or in part, Magna’s operation and maintenance of the Park or any act or
omission of Magna, any independent contractor retained by Magna, or anyone directly or
indirectly employed by them, while working on and/or maintaining the Park.
Section 5. Duration and Termination. This Agreement shall take effect upon execution
. a er . . . . .
and terminate upon the performance by the Parties of all the obligations described herein. The
Parties intend that the conveyance of the Park shall be accomplished promptly. Any provision of
this Agreement which contemplates performance subsequent to the exchange of title to the Park
shall survive such exchange of title and shall continue in full force and effect until fully satisfied,
but in no event shall this Agreement have a term longer than 50 years.
Section 6. Additional Interlocal Cooperation Act Provisions. In compliance with the
requirements of the Interlocal Cooperation Act and other applicable law:

(a) No Interlocal Entity. The Parties agree that they do not by this Agreement
create an interlocal entity.

(b) Joint Board. As required by UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-207, the Parties
agree that the cooperative undertaking under this Agreement shall be administered by a joint
board consisting of the County’s Mayor or designee and the Magna’s Manager or designee. Any
real or personal property used in the Parties’ cooperative undertaking herein shall be acquired,
held, and disposed in accordance with this Agreement.

2

(c) Financing Joint Cooperative Undertaking and Establishing Budget. There
18 no financing of joint or Cooperative undertaking and no budget shall be established or
maintained.

(d) Attorney Review. This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and
compliance with applicable law by the authorized attorneys for the County and Magna in
accordance with UTAH CODE ANN, § 11-13-202.5.

(e) Copies. Duly executed original counterparts of this Agreement shall be
filed with the keeper of records of each Party, pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. § 11-13-209.

(f) Manner of Acquiring, Holding or Disposing of Property. The Park Shall be
acquired, held or disposed of pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and unless agreed to herein
shall not be used in a joint or cooperative undertaking.

Section 7. General Provisions, The following provisions are also integral parts of this
Agreement:

(a) Binding Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure
to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the respective Parties hereto.

(b) Captions. The headings used in this Agreement are inserted for reference
purposes only and shall not be deemed to define, limit, extend, describe, or affect in any way the
meaning, scope or interpretation of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or the intent
hereof.

(c) Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in any number of
counterparts with the same effect as if the signatures upon any counterpart were upon the same
instrument. All signed counterparts shall be deemed to be one original.

(d) Severability. The Provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should
any provision hereof be void, voidable, unenforceable or invalid, such void, voidable,
unenforceable, or invalid provision shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement,

(e) Waiver of Breach. Any waiver by either Party of any breach of any kind or
character whatsoever by the other, whether such be direct or implied, shall not be construed as a
continuing waiver of or consent to any subsequent breach of this Agreement.

(f) Cumulative Remedies, The rights and remedies of the Parties hereto shall
be construed cumulatively, and none of such rights and remedies shall be exclusive of, or in lieu
or limitation of, any other right, remedy, or priority allowed by law.

(g) Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified except by an
instrument in writing signed by the Parties hereto,

(h) Time of Essence. Time is of the essence in this Agreement.
3

(i) Interpretation. This Agreement shall be interpreted, construed, and

enforced according to the substantive laws of the state of Utah.

(j) Notice. Any notice or other communication required or permitted to be
given hereunder shall be deemed to have been received (a) upon personal delivery or actual
receipt thereof or (b) within three (3) days after such notice is deposited in the United States
mail, certified mail Postage prepaid and addressed to the Parties at their respective addresses,

(k) Exhibits and Recitals. The Recitals set forth above and all exhibits to this
Agreement are incorporated herein to the Same extent as if such items were set forth herein in
their entirety within the body of this Agreement.
(1) Governmental Immunity. Both Parties are governmental entities under the
Governmental Immunity Act, UTAH CopE ANN. § 63G-7-101, ef seq. (the “/mmunity Act”).
Consistent with the terms of the Immunity Act, the Parties agree that each Party is responsible
and liable for any wrongful or negligent acts which it commits or which are committed by its
agents, officials, or employees, Neither Party waives any defenses or limits of liability otherwise
available under the Immunity Act and all other applicable law, and both Parties maintain al]
privileges, immunities, and other rights granted by the Immunity Act and all other applicable
law.

(m) Ethical Standards. T he Parties hereto represent that they have not: (a)
provided an illegal gift or payoff to any officer or employee, or former officer or employee, or
to any relative or business entity of an officer or employee, or relative or business entity of a
former officer or employee of the other party hereto; (b) retained any person to solicit or secure
this Agreement upon any contract, agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage,
brokerage or contingent fee, other than bona fide employees of bona fide commercial agencies
established for the purpose of securing business; (c) breached any of the ethical standards set
forth in State statute or County’s Ethics, Gifts and Honoraria ordinance (Chapter 2,07, SALT
LAKE COUNTY Cope oF ORDINANCES [2001]); or (d) knowingly influenced, and hereby promise

that they will not knowingly influence, any officer or employee or former officer or employee to
breach any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute or County ordinances.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Magna, by resolution duly adopted by its Council, caused
this Agreement to be si gned by its Mayor and attested by its Recorder: and the County, by
resolution of its County Council, caused this Agreement to be signed by the Salt Lake County
Mayor, or his/her designee, his or her signature being duly notarized.

SALT LAKE COUNTY
By:
Maypr of Designee
4

Recommended for Approval:
Martin Jensen "Date 20280808 see eee,
Director of Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation
Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:
John E. Diaz . 22ttysenesty tne ar
John E. Diaz
Deputy District Attorney
Salt Lake County
MAGNA, a Utah Municipal Corporation
By Aes Ha
M Designee
ayor or Design Lue
ATTEST: Me Y
eae
Magna’s Recorder
Reviewed and Advised as to F orm and Legality:
Magna’s Attomey
5
