MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO.: 20-04-04 DATE: April 28, 2020
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
IDENTIFYING THE INTENT TO AMEND SPECIAL LAND USE RULES,
REGULATIONS, AND MANAGEMENT FOR FEMA-IDENTIFIED FLOOD
ZONES LOCATED IN MAGNA TO APPLY FOR INCUSION IN THE NATIONAL
FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM
RECITALS

A. The Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) is a municipality pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated (“UCA”) §§ 10-2a-401 e¢ seq.

B. The Magna Metro Township Council (the “Council’”) is the municipal governing body
for Magna pursuant to UCA § 10-3b-501.

C. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (“FEMA”) is an agency of the United
States Government tasked with assisting and supporting State, County, and Local
Governments with disaster preparation, training, incident management support, and
possible emergency recovery efforts.

D. Pursuant to the protection of people and property, and as part of a statewide flood
zone identification study FEMA performed, they identified there are locations in
Magna that are susceptible to a threat of flooding (“Flood Zones”’).

E. The identified flood zones include certain key facilities the public needs for the
general health and safety of Magna.

F. Prior to the incorporation of Magna on January 1, 2017, all land use decisions in flood
zones were made and administered by Salt Lake County as the “municipal
government” of Magna.

l
lft! Lh®© |... ee eee

G. Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-2a-414(3), Magna adopted all County ordinances
including all ordinances relating to flood control.

H. Many of the land use ordinances and regulations regarding flood zones that Magna
inherited from Salt Lake County, along with the flood zone responsibility, may no
longer conform to FEMA Standards.

I. In light of the March 18, 2020 Magna Earthquake, developing and implementing
emergency management programs that identify and plan for certain disaster events
has come to the fore.

J. Identifying, evaluating and pursuing mitigation efforts within possible flood zones,
and recognizing flood zones in official actions relating to land use as we move
forward, and addressing issues in the FEMA-identified flood zones in the
municipality, it is the intent of the Council to bring Magna’s flood zone maps, land
use ordinances, regulations and hazard management into compliance with FEMA
regulations.

K. Pursuant to Utah Code §§ 10-3c-103, 68-3-12.5, and 10-9a-501 et al, the Council has
the statutory authority to adopt land use and control measures to reduce future flood
losses.

RESOLUTION

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by the Magna Metro Township Council,

1. The Council assures the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) that
it will enact or amend as necessary, and maintain in force, in those areas having flood
hazards, adequate land use and control measures with effective enforcement provisions
consistent with the criteria set forth in Section 60 of the National Flood Insurance
Program Regulations; and

2. Vests the Flood Control Engineer with the responsibility, authority and means
to:

(a) Assist the Director of Planning and Development Services (the “Director” or
the “Administrator”), at his/her request, in the delineation of the limits of the area having
special flood hazards.

2
eee ee

(b) Provide such information concerning present uses and occupancy of the
floodplain, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) or flood-related erosion areas as the Director may
request.

(c) Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request, for the determination of
applicable flood insurance risk premium rates within all areas having special flood
hazards identified on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM), any certificates of floodproofing, and information on the elevation (in
relation to mean sea level) of the level of the lowest flood (including basement) of all
new construction or substantially improved structures, and include whether or not such
structures contain a basement, and if the structure has been floodproofed, the elevation .
(in relation to mean sea level) to which the structure was floodproofed.

(d) Cooperate with Federal, State and local agencies and private firms which
undertake to study, survey, map and identify floodplain, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) or
flood-related erosion areas, and cooperate with neighboring communities with respect to
management of adjoining floodplain, mudslide, (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related
erosion areas in order to prevent aggravation of existing hazards.

(e) Upon occurrence, notify the Director in writing whenever the boundaries of the
community have been modified by annexation or the community has otherwise assumed
or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for a
particular area. In order that all FHBM’s and FIRM’s accurately represent the
community’s boundaries, include within such notification a copy of the map of the
community suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new
area for which the community has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority.

3
es a ___

(f) Submit an annual report to the Administrator concerning the community's
participation in the program, including, but not limited to the development and
implementation of floodplain management measures.

3. Appoints the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District with the responsibility,
authority, and means to implement the commitments as outlined in this Resolution.

4. Agrees to take such other official action as may be reasonably necessary to carry
out the objectives of the adopted floodplain management measures.

> ae ADOPTED i the Magna Metro Township, Salt Lake County,
Utah this Jb day of 4 , 2020.

FOR THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP:
a Bf bait.
DAN W. PEAY, MAYOR” _
va
ATTEST
N Dy { Ls } w APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder
PAUL H. ASHTO
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
VOTING ¢
AL
Council Member Hull voting 4 VA -
Mayor Peay voting “A 4 de
L

Council Member Peel voting Ci y hi
Council Member Pierce voting “A V, E Ue

; — ag WL
Council Member Prokopis voting W|

4
