MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP

RESOLUTION NO.: 19-09-03 DATE: SEPTEMBER 24, 2019
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
ADOPTING AMENDMENT #2 TO THE MASTER INTERLOCAL
COOPERATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN MAGNA, SALT LAKE
COUNTY, THE GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES

| DISTRICT, ET.AL., FORMALIZING THE TRANSITION OF PLANNING
SERVICES FROM SALT LAKE COUNTY TO THE MSD
RECITALS
A. The Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) is a municipality pursuant to Utah Code §§ 10-2a-
401 et seq.

B. The Magna Metro Township Council (the “Council” is the municipal legislative body for
Magna pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-501.

C. Salt Lake County (the “County”) is a County pursuant to Title 17: “COUNTIES.”

D. The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (the “MSD”) is a Local District that
provides municipal-type services pursuant to Title 17B: “LOCAL DISTRICTS.”

E. On January 28, 2018 Magna, for the municipality, approved and adopted a Master Interlocal
Agreement between Magna, the County, the MSD, et.al, whereby Salt Lake County would
provide certain municipal-type services on contract to the MSD and member municipalities,
including Magna.

F. Later in 2018, it was determined by the MSD Board of Trustees, a desire to provide Planning
Services directly to the County and municipalities.

G. The MSD is expected to commence the provision of Planning and Development Services on
October 1, 2019.

H. The attached document, also known as Amendment #2 to the Master Interlocal Agreement
(Exhibit A) formalizes and clarifies this transition of services.
RESOLUTION
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Magna Metro Township Council hereby approves
and authorizes the Mayor to sign, the attached Second Amendment to the Master Interlocal
Agreement, hereinafter to be known as Exhibit A, formalizing and clarifying the transition of
Planning and Development Services from provision by Salt Lake County to the MSD.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Magna, Salt Lake County, Utah this Z g day of
SEPTEMBER, 2019.
FOR THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP:
ATTEST
4
C) () (Hy of
= jf / . \ DAN W. PEAY, MAY,
SY)! LAR RAS = Lay an an
SHERRIE SWENSEN
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK APPROVED AS TO FORM:
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER
PAUL H. ASHTON
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
VOTING:
COUNCILMEMBER HULL he
MAYOR PEAY Ae
COUNCILMEMBER PEEL Ae
COUNCILMEMBER PIERCE IN&
COUNCILMEMBER PROKOPIS AN®

County Contract No.
DA Log No.
SECOND AMENDMENT OF THE MASTER INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT, SALT LAKE COUNTY,
| COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP, EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP,
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP, AND WHITE CITY
| METRO TOWNSHIP FOR MUNICIPAL, ADMINISTRATIVE, AND OPERATIONAL
SERVICES |
This Second Amendment of the Master Interlocal Agreement (the “Amendment” is
entered into on the date the Amendment is signed by all the Parties, and effective as provided in i
Section 3 below, between the GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT, a
local district and political subdivision of the state of Utah (the “District”), SALT LAKE
COUNTY, 4 body corporate and politic and a political subdivision of the State of Utah (the
“County”), COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHD, a municipal corporation, EMIGRATION H
CANYON METRO TOWNSHP, a municipal corporation, KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, a i
municipal corporation, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHP, a municipal corporation, and WHITE
CITY METRO TOWNSHP, a municipal corporation. All of these entities collectively shall be
referred to hereafter as the “Parties” and individually as a “Party.”
;
A. On or about January 25, 2018, the Parties entered into the Master Interlocal
Agreement for the provision of municipal, administrative, and operational i
services by the County to unincorporated areas of the County and each of the |
Metro Townships on behalf of the District (the “Agreement”). |
B. The Parties are in the process of amending the Agreement to provide for the
District to take over responsibility (from the County) for providing financial
services to the District (“First Amendment”),
C. Section 1.2 of the Agreement provides that the provision of services may
transition away from the County to the District pursuant to the terms of the
Agreement
D. The Parties desire the planning and development services referenced in the
Agreement, which were provided by the County to the District, to transition to
and be performed by the District for the County and the Member Metro
Townships (“Member Metros”).
E, The transfer of assets related to the planning and development services transition
hereunder, and County provision of support services to the District, shall also be
governed by agreements that are separate from this Amendment.
1

THEREFORE, the Parties agree to amend the Agreement as follows:

1. The District hereby assumes responsibility for those services outlined in Attachment “C”
attached to the Agreement (as amended hereby) (hereafter “planning and development
services”), and the County shall no longer have such responsibility under the Agreement,

| pursuant to the terms hereof. To effectuate this change, the Agreement is amended as
follows:
| a. Strike “planning and development” from the following sections of the Agreement:
Recital A and Attachment “E”

b. Article I, Section 1.1(C). This paragraph is replaced with the following language:
“The District agrees to provide planning and development services to its Member
Metros and the County, specifically including planning and development staff
services. These services shall also include business licensing, building inspection,
and code violation enforcement. These services shall be provided throughout the
entire District service.area, including the Mountainous Planning District. The
provision of these services shall include the use of District personnel, equipment,
buildings (as applicable), supplies, assets and other District resources.

c. Add Article I, Section 1.2.1 as follows: “The District shall perform the planning
and development services hereunder in a professional, reasonable and responsive
manner in compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations
(including but not limited to all applicable environmental and safety regulations)
and consistent with the agreement of the applicable Parties, and such other
applicable requirements and standards of performance.

“Subject to the foregoing and following paragraph, the exact nature of how
planning and development services are to be provided, the discipline of personnel,
the maintenance of District assets and any other matters incidental to providing
planning and development services shall remain with the District in its sole
discretion after consultation with the County and/or the impacted Member
Metto(s), as applicable. Subject to paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of this Agreement, the
applicable Parties further agree to acknowledge in writing prior to the end of each
calendar year during the term of this Agreement, which planning and
development services will continue to be provided by the District for an additional
calendar year and which planning and development services will be discontinued
upon expiration of the then current calendar year. In addition, each of the
planning and development services covered by this Agreement may be modified
or extended with a minimum of ninety (90) days advance notice, provided that
the parties reach written agreement on the particulars of the modification,
cancellation or extension.
“For land use Applications of Regional Impact (filed by property owners, their
agents, or the County) within the unincorporated County, the County reserves the
2

right, after receiving input from the Planning and Development Director for the

District, to direct the District to utilize the County’s Office of Regional

Development and Transportation (““County’s ORDT”) and/or a third-party

consultant as directed by the County to consult with the District’s planning

department regarding any such Application of Regional Impact. The cost of the

services provided by the County’s ORDT and/or such third-party consultant shall

be billed to the District and shall be paid by the District to the County’s ORDT

| within sixty (60) days of receipt of said bill. The District agrees to reserve in its
| annual budget each year an amount equal to $100,000 to be used to pay such fees

for said year; it being understood that if such reserve funds are not expended

during any given year, such funds shall not accumulate and shall be available to

meet the reserve requirement for the immediately following year. The County

may request funds in excess of such $100,000 from the District through the i
District’s budget process. For purposes of this Agreement, an “Application of
Regional Impact” is defined as a land use application (including for ordinance or |
general plan amendments) that is likely to have regional effects beyond the

unincorporated County, and is legislative in nature. Examples of such

Applications of Regional Impact include applications that: involve development

agreements that are filed under Chapters 19.13 (Mountain Resort Zone) or 19.69

(Planned Community Zone), applications to amend either of those Chapters or

Chapter 19.72 (Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone), applications to amend a
general plan that governs the unincorporated canyons within the Central Wasatch,
and/or applications that involve a transportation or utility network that crosses the
boundaries of the unincorporated County.
The District agrees that it shall provide community engagement services to the |
community councils in the unincorporated areas during the term of this |
Agreement. Such services shall include management of the community council

budget process and record keeping, as well as regular attendance at monthly

community council meetings and association of community council meetings,

with reports of such meetings to be provided to the District board and the County.

The cost of such services shall be included in the District annual budget.

d. Add Article I, Section 1.3.1 as follows: “As provided herein, the provision of

planning and development services hereunder shall include the use of all District

equipment, buildings (as applicable), supplies, assets (including vehicles), and

other resources (“planning and development assets”) necessary to provide ;

planning and development services, The District shall at all times retain

management authority and control over its planning and development assets. The

responsibility to insure, maintain, and repair said planning and development assets

shall at all times remain obligations solely of the District.”

e, Add Article I, Section 1.4.1 as follows: “With respect to planning and
development services, the relationship of the District, and of any District
employee, with the County or Member Metros under this Agreement shall be that
of an independent contractor. The District has the entire responsibility to
3

discharge all of the obligations of an independent contractor under federal, state,
and local laws, including, but not limited to, those obligations relating to
employee supervision, benefits and wages, taxes, unemployment compensation

| and insurance, social security, worker’s compensation, and disability pensions and
tax withholdings, including the filing of all returns and reports and the payment of
all taxes, assessments and contributions, and other sums required of an
independent contractor. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed
to create the relationship between the District or its employees and the County or
any of the Member Metros of employer and employee, partners, or parties to a
joint venture. Should the County or Member Metros have any criticism, concern,
or recommendation regarding any District employee, specifically or generally, the
County or Member Metros may raise it directly with the District General
Manager. The District shall diligently and appropriately address an issue raised
by the County or Member Metro and report back to the County or Member Metro,
as appropriate.
“In performing the planning and development services, the District shall furnish
and supply all necessary labor, supervision, equipment communication facilities,
uniforms, badges, and other items necessary and incident to the provision of
planning and development services in compliance with the requirements of the
law, including the Americans with Disabilities Act, and all rules and regulations :
adopted or promulgated in furtherance thereof, as understood by the District. As
provided herein, the planning and development services shall be provided and
supervised by District employees.”

f. _Article L Section 1.5 is hereby deleted and replaced with a new Article I, Section
1.5 as follows:
“A. REPORTS. The District, with respect to planning and development
services, and the County with respect to all other Services to be provided by the
County hereunder, shall provide financial, operational, or other information )
reasonably requested by any of the Parties.
B. COMPLAINTS AND EXCEPTIONAL BEHAVIOR. All complaints
regarding planning and development services shall be referred to the District, and
all complaints regarding other Services to be provided by the County hereunder
shall be referred to the County. The District shall be responsible for resolution of
planning and development services complaints in consultation with the County
and Member Metro, and the County shall be responsible for resolution of
complaints related to all other Services to be provided by the County hereunder,
as appropriate. On a regular basis, the District shall provide to the County and
Member Metros copies of any written complaint(s) received regarding the
applicable Party’s planning and development services, and the County shall
provide to the District and Member Metros the same related to other Services.
The District and County need not provide such information if either as applicable
reasonably deems such notice to be a violation of any merit provision or any
4

applicable privacy law, or that such notice would jeopardize any ongoing
investigation or the safety of any person. Notwithstanding, the District or County
as applicable may share this information with any of the Parties upon request if
appropriate restrictions are put into place, such as redacted complaints and related
information, with private, controlled or protected information deleted. Further, the
| District shall provide to the County or the applicable Member Metro copies of any
written documents demonstrating commendable behavior regarding the provision
of the applicable Party’s planning and development services, and County shall
provide the same for all other Services. These documents may be used to help
measure the performance of the District or County as applicable in fulfilling its
obligations under this Agreement.
C. SERVICE EMERGENCIES. All service complaints or requests,
including those of an emergency nature, shall be resolved by the division or
department of the County or District, as applicable, who is providing the service
in accordance with standards employed by a modern, well equipped division or |
department.” |
D. ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURE AND POLICY DEVELOPMENT. From |
time to time, the County or District as applicable, upon reasonable request of any i
of the Parties, shall provide controlled or protected information under the
provisions of the Government Records Access and Management Act. The Parties
agree to jointly develop and implement a policy for communicating and
safeguarding such information.”
g. Add Article I, Section 1.6.1 as follows: “District agrees to cooperate,
communicate and work closely with the County and each Member Metro to
ensure the timely performance of planning and development services, including
follow up with all Parties as the need may require or as requested.” |
h. Amend Article II, Section 2.1 as follows: “Subject to available funding and i
resources and Section 1.2.1 hereof, the Parties acknowledge and agree that, after |
considering input from District Members (including the County), the District shall
retain final decision-making authority with regard to the type, scope, priority and
quality of the Municipal Services provided under this Agreement, provided,
however, that, except as provided in subsection 2.1.1, the District will pay to the
County not less than the minimum amount required for the budgeted level of
service consistent with each of the Attachments to this Agreement other than
Attachment C.”
i. Add Article II, Section 2.1.1 as follows: “With respect to planning and
development services, the District will provide to the County and each Member
Metro not less than the minimum services required consistent with Attachment
“C” to this Agreement.”
j. Add Article II, Section 2.3.1 as follows: “Subject to available funding, the
minimum contract amount to be used by the District for planning and
5

‘development services, as set forth in the District budget, which, under generally
acceptable fiscal practices, will necessarily include a fund balance, is based on
actual District costs to purchase, own, operate and maintain the equipment and
materials and to employ the personnel necessary to provide the budgeted level of
planning and development services. The District agrees to use the budgeted
contract amount identified by the District Budget to cover these base costs plus
income attributable to planning and development services received by the District,
its Members, and the County. Actual costs for planning and development services
will be tracked by the District monthly.

“The Parties agree to cooperate with each other to bring planning and
development services costs in line with estimated budgeted amounts. Subject to
the terms of this Agreement, the District shall cover the actual full costs of the
planning and development services work performed, including labor, equipment,
and materials, as outlined in this Agreement.”

k, Add Article II, Section 2.4.1 as follows: “The County may modify (increase or
decrease) the level of planning and development services, or accelerate the timing
of any component of the same if the County provides at least ninety (90) days
prior written notice to the District of such change and, in the event of an increase,
the District approves such change or modification and a modified rate schedule.
The District shall use its best efforts to provide any increase in planning and
development services requested by the County. The amount due for such
increase or decrease shall be agreed to by the District and County in good faith
and shall accrue as of the date the modified planning and development services
become effective and shall-be paid as provided in Article IV below.

1. Add Article IL, Section 3.1.1 as follows: “To facilitate the provision of planning
and development services, and recognizing the District’s reliance on applicable
local laws and regulations in the performance of those services, each Member
Meiro and the County agrees to provide District representatives with copies of
current resolutions, ordinances, rules and regulations that pertain to said Party’s
respective planning and development services as well as provide timely
amendments and updates to resolutions, ordinances, rules and regulations. The
County and each Member Metro shall retain its respective policy decision-making
power and authority with regard to enacting municipal ordinances, land use
regulations, decisions or actions and other police powers, as provided pursuant to
law.”

m. Add Article Ill, Section 3.2.1 as follows: “The County and each Member Metro
agrees that the District shall be responsible for funding all costs associated with
planning and development services from the funds received under Article IV.
“The District agrees that the District's annual budget shall include a line item in
the District’s unincorporated fund for the County’s administration costs related to
the unincorporated areas in an amount commensurate with the amounts allocated

6
|

to each Member Metro for its administration costs, to be determined by the
District as part of its budget after receiving budget requests for the same from the
County and the Member Metros; it being understood that the foregoing is
intended (in part) to compensate the County for the loss of overhead on account of
the transition of planning and development and other services.
“Member Metros and the County will provide timely input to the District’s
General Manager, not less than annually and more often as appropriate, regarding
the District’s budget to address the type, scope and priority of planning and
development services anticipated to meet the reasonable planning and
development service needs of the County and each Member Metro (as applicable).
“The Parties agree to cooperate with each other to bring costs in line with
estimated budgeted amounts. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the District
shall fund the total actual costs of the work performed, including labor,
equipment, materials, and other costs for planning and development services, as |
outlined in this Agreement.”
n. Add Article IV, Section 4.5.1 as follows: “The District shall collect, on behalf of
the County and Member Metros, all fees and charges established by each Member |
Metro or by the County for planning and development services performed by the
District. The District shall retain all such fees and charges to fund planning and ;
development services to the County and Member Metros (as applicable). To the i
extent necessary, the County and Member Metros authorize the District to pursue
the efficient collection and enforcement of all fees, assessments, and fines within 1
the District service area for planning and development services. The County and
Member Metros shall maintain in effect valid fee ordinances for planning and
development services. When necessary, each of the County and Member Metros
shall pass a resolution delegating authority to the District to collect such fees.
Copies of these resolutions shall be maintained by the District and shall be made
available to any person upon request.”
o. Add Article IV, Section 4.6.1 as follows: “Any and all grants, donations, and
contributions applicable to planning and development services for use in the
District service area shall be collected and accounted for by the District to fund
the provision of the applicable planning and development services.”
p. Add Article IV, Section 4.7.1 as follows: “Subject to all limitations herein, the
District shall fund the cost of planning and development services as reasonably
determined by the District and as set forth in the annual District budget and
subsequent amendments to that budget, as approved by the District Board. The
District shall fund the cost of the work performed for the County and Member
Metros, including labor, equipment, materials, and indirect costs, if any, as
outlined in the approved budget and provided herein.
7

“The Parties recognize, understand and agree that planning and development
services to be provided by the District to the County and Member Metros
pursuant to this Agreement are not to be a “profit center’ for the District but,
rather, are intended to cover the District’s reasonable actual costs incurred in
providing planning and development services. The Parties further recognize,
understand and agree that the District’s annual budget must be balanced as

| required by the Utah Code, particularly Section 17B-1-606(3).”

| q. Add Article IV, Section 4.9.1 as follows: “The process for determining full cost
for planning and development services shall be as follows: The District will
budget for planning and development services, recognizing that County and
Member Metro needs will fluctuate from year to year. During the year, the
District will maintain accurate records of planning and development services
provided.”

r. Add Article VIL Section 7.1.1 as follows: “The District shall be responsible for
insuring all of its employees, assets, and activities including, but not limited to,
comprehensive all risk insurance, commercial general liability insurance,
worker’s compensation insurance, motor vehicle liability coverage for owned and
non-owned vehicles, and umbrella liability insurance, for the benefit of the
District, County, and Member Metros in such amounts as may be prudent or
legally required to protect against any and every risk, loss, cost, damage and/or
liability respecting the provision of planning and development services, the
District’s employees and/or the District’s assets, including, without limitation, the
assets described in the County and District’s Agreement for Transfer of Assets in
Conjunction with Transition of Planning and Development Services executed
concurrently herewith.”

s. Add Article VIL, Section 8.2.1 as follows: “Claims, disputes, and other issues
between any of the Parties arising out of or related to planning and development
services which cannot otherwise be resolved by the applicable Parties shall be
first submitted to mediation as mutually agreed by the applicable Parties. Each
applicable Party shall be responsible to pay a proportionate share of the costs of
the Mediator. In the event mediation is unsuccessful, the claim or dispute may be

decided by litigation in the Third Judicial District Court of Salt Lake County,
Utah. Unless the provision of planning and development services is otherwise
terminated pursuant to the provisions hereof or as otherwise agreed to by the
applicable Parties in writing, during litigation of any such dispute the District
shall continue to provide planning and development services in accordance with
the terms of this Agreement. The County and Member Metros shall continue to
perform their commitments under this Agreement.”

t. Amend Article IX, Section 9.1(D) as follows: “The District may be funded by
Sales Tax Revenues, by class B and C roads account revenues, by cable franchise
fees, by grants and by fines, fees, charges, levies, property taxes, or other
available funds. Such funds will be the District’s source of funds to make

8 :

payments to the County or provide planning and development services required
by this Agreement and, in the event and to the extent such funds are not timely
provided to the District, the District’s obligations to make payment to the County
or provide planning and development services hereunder shall be proportionately
abated until such time as the required funding is provided to the District. The
District shall be responsible for formulating and approving its annual budget and
the County shall be responsible for formulating and approving its annual budget
and, in particular, the annual budget of each County division and department that
will or may provide any Service to the District as provided in this Agreement.
u. Amend Attachment “C” as follows:
The “Building Permits,” “Business Licensing,” “Building Inspection,” and “Code |
Enforcement” paragraphs are retained in their entirety.
The “Planning and Zoning” paragraph is replaced with the following language: |
“Provide the resources to create general plans for Member Metros and the County |
for the purpose of ensuring that future development is consistent with best
practices. Assist the public and the County’s Office of Regional Development in i
selecting the most efficient path to achieve the desired building permit for any
project. Provide staffing support for all planning commissions within the
District’s service area (including the Mountainous Planning District Planning |
Commission) to make the public review portion of the permitting process as |
efficient as possible. Issue business licenses and building permits in accordance
with state, county and local regulations. Provide any other assistance that is
reasonably related to the County or any of the Member Metros’ respective
planning and zoning responsibilities. There is an emphasis on applying
regulations to achieve the highest level of public safety reasonably possible. |
District will provide any other assistance requested by the County and/or any i
Member Metro relating to their respective planning and development.”
The “Budget” paragraph is replaced with the following language: “Subject to
available funding, the District shall fund the actual cost of planning and
development services as set forth in the annual District budget and subsequent
amendments to that budget, as approved by the District Board. Please see
approved and adopted District Budget.”
The “Overhead” paragraph is hereby deleted.
2. All other provisions of the Agreement as amended by the First Amendment shall remain
in full force and effect.
3. As required by the Interlocal Cooperation Act, Title 11, Chapter 13 of the Utah Code (the
“Interlocal Act”), this Amendment shall be effective upon the last to occur of the
following:
9

a, This Amendment shall be approved by the governing body of each Party,
pursuant to Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act;
b. This Amendment shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance with
applicable law by a duly authorized attorney on behalf of each Party, pursuant to
Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act;
c. A duly executed counterpart of this Amendment shall be filed with the keeper of
records of each Party, pursuant to Section 11-13-209 of the Interlocal Act.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties execute this Amendment the day and year recited
above.
SALT LAKE COUNTY COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
By:
Mayor or Designee By:
. Mayor
Date:
Date:
APPROVED AS TO FORM APPROVED AS TO FORM
Attomey representing Salt Lake County Attomey representing Copperton Metro
Township
GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
SERVICES DISTRICT TOWNSHIP
By: By:
Chair Mayor
Date: Date:
APPROVED AS TO FORM
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Attorney representing Emigration Canyon
Attorney representing Greater Salt Lake Metro Township
Municipal Services District
10 |

APPROVED AS TO FORM
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
Attorney representing White City Metro
Township
By
Mayor
Date:
APPROVED AS TO FORM
4825-4221-4025, v. 2 :
Attorney representing Kearns Metro |
Township |
|
i
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP |
|
Mayor !
Date: 2 ~ Z vA =/ F |
APPROVED AS TO FORM |
Attorney me 1% g Magna Metro |
Township
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
Mayor
Date: G- 45-96)?
11
