RESOLUTION NO.: 21-04-02 DATE: APRIL 13, 2021
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR TO SIGN AN AGREEMENT A LAND
PURCHASE AND SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN MAGNA,

SALT LAKE COUNTY, AND DARRELL SEGO FOR A FLOOD
DETENTION BASIN LOCATED AT 7373 W 3500 SOUTH

WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township ("Magna") is a Municipality pursuant to
Utah Code §§ 10-2a-401 et seg; and

WHEREAS, the existing Flood Detention Basin located at 7373 W 3500 South
(the “Property’) is in need of maintenance and upgrades; and

WHEREAS, Darrell Sego currently owns the Property; and

WHEREAS, Salt Lake County (the “County”) owns an easement on the Property
for municipal flood control; and

WHEREAS, the Council desires the upkeep and maintenance of its stormwater
detention basins to be more effective, efficient and sustainable; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Council’s intent, it was determined that purchasing the
land for the flood detention basin provided the best result; and

WHEREAS, the contract, with attachments, attached to this resolution, hereinafter
known as Council Exhibit A, provides for the payment of Mr. Sego and the transfer of the
easement to the municipality; and

WHEREAS, the parties generally agree to the terms and conditions of the agreement;
now therefore be it

RESOLVED, by the Magna Metro Township Council, the Mayor is authorized to sign
the attached agreement between Magna, Salt Lake County and Darrell Sego, Council Exhibit A
Resolution 21-04-02 -1-

attached hereto, for the purchase of the property of the flood detention basin located at 7373 W
3500 South; and be it futher
RESOLVED, upon approval of all parties and execution of the agreement, the total
payment to Mr. Sego of $109,158.09, be made pursuant to the amounts identified in the
agreement to satisfy the purchase and settlement; and be it further
RESOLVED, the Council authorized the Administrator and Attorney to continue work
with Salt Lake County to transfer its municipal flood control easement at this location to
Magna for future repair and maintenance.
ADOPTED this 13“ day of April 2021. ;
BY!) bw Bey
DAN W. PEAY, MAYOR
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Se = ae PAUL H. ASHTON

SHERRIE SWENSEN METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY

SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK

METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER

VOTE BY COUNCIL: AYE NAY

MAYOR DAN PEAY K

TRISH HULL Pad

BRINT PEEL 2)

AUDREY PIERCE x

STEVE PROKOPIS je
Resolution 21-04-02 -2-

COUNCIL EXHIBIT “A”
BEHIND THIS PAGE

REAL ESTATE PURCHASE CONTRACT
AND
SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT

This Settlement Agreement and Real Estate Purchase Contract (“Contract”) is entered
into by the Magna Metro Township (“Buyer”), a municipality incorporated under the laws of the
State of Utah; Salt Lake County (“County”), a county organized under the laws of the State of
Utah; and Sego Properties, LLC (“Seller”), a Utah limited liability company, as of the date
executed by all parties (“Effective Date”). For the purposes of this Contract, Buyer, the County,
and Seller will be referred to individually as “Party” or “Parties” as the context may require.

RECITALS

A, Seller is the owner of real property in Salt Lake County, Utah, more particularly
described as Salt Lake County Parcel No. 14-33-227-028-0000, with the address of 7373 W. 3500
S., Magna, Utah 84044 (the “Sego Property”).

B. On February 21, 1978, prior to Buyer’s incorporation, the County recorded a
perpetual surface drainage easement (“Stormwater Easement”), which gave the County an
easement that authorized it to install a storm drain pipeline for the transportation of surface water
over, across, through, and under the southeast quadrant of the Sego Property.

C. The Stormwater Easement is found in page 951 of Book 4627 (No. 3067549) and
is attached as Exhibit 1.

D. Instead of a stormwater pipeline, the County installed a stormwater drainage pond
(the “Pond”) that now occupies the northeast quadrant of the Sego Property.

E. When Buyer incorporated as a municipality in 2017, it assumed ownership of the
stormwater facilities within its municipal boundaries, including the Pond and Stormwater
Easement, along with the County’s stormwater responsibilities.

F. A dispute arose between Seller and the County over the maintenance of the Pond
and the Stormwater Easement, which resulted in a maintenance agreement dated July 7, 2017
(“Maintenance Agreement”) between Seller and the County (Exhibit 2), pursuant to which the
County agreed to make certain improvements and to landscape the area.

G. Buyer was not a party to the Maintenance Agreement and a subsequent dispute
arose between the Parties over the scope and intent of the Maintenance Agreement and Stormwater
Easement.

H. To resolve this dispute and all claims that Seller may have against the County and
Buyer, Buyer will purchase the portion of the Sego Property on which the Pond is located for
$46,782.33 and Buyer will also pay seller the sum of $62,375.76 to settle all present and past

1

disputes, claims, damages, complaints, and grievances related to the Pond. This will result in a
total payment to Seller of $109,158.09.

1 To effectuate this Contract, Seller will need to: (i) subdivide the Sego Property into
two parcels; (11) convey the newly created parcel with the Pond to Buyer; and (iii) obtain a variance
for certain setback requirements from Buyer, which is the applicable land use authority.

J. Buyer agrees to pay for all costs associated with the subdivision and variance
process and will waive all applicable fees that Seller would otherwise occur in relation to the
subdivision and variance.

K. Upon the completion of the subdivision and conveyance of the Property to Magna,
the County agrees to release the Stormwater Easement.

L. To make improvements to the northern portion of Pond, the Parties agree that Buyer
will have a temporary construction easement to cross a portion of Seller’s property and to repair
and replace a small portion of an existing wall located on Seller’s property, at Buyer’s sole cost
and expense.

AGREEMENT

1. PROPERTY DESCRIPTION: The portion of the Property that Seller will purchase will
be referred to as the “Property” for the purposes of this Contract. Any reference below to the term
“Property” excludes the portion of the Sego Property that will remain following the subdivision
(the “Remaining Parcel”), which Seller will retain following the required subdivision and
variance. The legal descriptions for the Remaining Parcel and the Property are set forth in Exhibit
3. Unless excluded herein, this sale includes all fixtures presently attached to the Property,
including but not limited to any stormwater infrastructure and the chain link fence (Fence) located
on the eastern and northern portions of the Property. Seller will retain ownership of the portion of
the chain link fence located on the southern and western borders of the Property.
2. PURCHASE PRICE AND SETTLEMENT PAYMENT. The purchase price for the
Property and the settlement payment (the “Purchase Price and Settlement Payment”) will
include: (1) a purchase price of $46,782.33 for the purchase of the Property; and (2) a settlement
payment of $62,375.76 to settle all present and past disputes, claims, damages, complaints, and
grievances related to the Pond. Upon the Parties’ execution of this Contract, the Seller will
deposit the Purchase Price and Settlement Payment with First American Title (the “Title
Company”), or with another title company agreed upon by the Parties in writing. The Title
Company will hold the Purchase Price and Settlement Payment in escrow pursuant to Section 4.
3. SELLER DISCLOSURES. Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Seller will provide to
Buyer the following documents, if applicable, in hard copy or electronic format which are
collectively referred to as the “Seller Disclosures:”

3.1. Rental Agreements and Leases. A copy of all leases and rental agreements now in
effect that pertain to the Property, if any; and

2

3.2. Studies and Reports. Copies in Seller’s possession, if any, of any studies and/or
reports that have previously been done on the Property, including without limitation,
environmental reports, soils studies, site plans, and surveys.

4. SETTLEMENT AND CLOSING.

4.1. Subdivision and Variance Applications. Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Seller
will execute and file the subdivision application along with the corresponding plat attached as
Exhibit 4 and the variance application attached as Exhibit 5 with the Greater Salt Lake Municipal
Services District (“MSD”), which is Buyer’s contracted land use services provider. Buyer will
waive all applicable filings fees and pay all costs associated with the subdivision and variance
applications. Buyer will also diligently process the subdivision and variance applications. Seller
will timely cooperate with, support, and execute documents necessary for the Buyer to pursue the
subdivision and variance. Modifications to this Contract to facilitate, or that are required by, the
subdivision and variance process may be made by separate written addenda signed by the Parties.
Within 15 days of the date the subdivision and variance applications have been approved, Buyer
will record the plat creating the Property and any other applicable documents related to the
subdivision (“Subdivision Documents”) with the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office. Buyer
will pay all costs associated with recording the Subdivision Documents and securing a new parcel
number for the Property. Within seven (7) days of recording the Subdivision Documents and/or
receiving a new parcel number for the Property, Buyer will notify the Seller and the County in
writing of the new parcel number for the Property. Within 15 days receiving notice of the new
parcel number for the Property: (i) Seller will complete and execute the quit claim deed attached
as Exhibit 6 and provide it to the Title Company; (ii) the County will complete and execute the
“Notice of Release of Easement” attached as Exhibit 7 and provide it to the Title Company; and
(iii) Buyer will execute the “Temporary Construction Easement” attached as Exhibit 8 and
provide it to the Title Company. The Title Company will hold and release the Deed, Release of
Easement, and Construction Easement in escrow pursuant to the terms of this Contract.

4.2. Title Report and Insurance. Seller warrants and represents that Seller has fee title to
the Property. Within 30 days of the Effective Date, Buyer will pay for a title report and a standard-
coverage owner’s policy of title insurance insuring Buyer in the amount of the Purchase Price.
Buyer will assume all responsibility and liability for or relating to obtaining the title report and
title insurance and any commitment for title insurance. If the Title Company declines to issue title
insurance due to defects in the title of the Property and such defects cannot be reasonably cured,
Buyer may, in its discretion, terminate this Contract in writing at any time prior to Closing.
Similarly, if the subdivision or variance applications are denied and cannot be reasonably
modified to secure approval, Seller may terminate this contract in writing.

4.3. Closing.

4.3.1. For purposes of this Contract, “Closing” means that the following
conditions precedent have been satisfied: (i) settlement has been completed; (ii) Buyer
has delivered the Purchase Price and Settlement Payment to the Title Company; (iii) the

3

Subdivision documents have been recorded in the office of the Salt Lake County
Recorder; (iv) the Parties have signed and delivered to the Title Company all documents
required by this Contract, by written escrow instructions, or by applicable law; (v) Buyer
has obtained a commitment of title insurance pursuant to Section 4.2 and paid all fees
charged by the Title Company for its services in the settlement/closing process; and (vi)
if applicable, Seller has paid off all mortgages, trust deeds, judgments, assessments,
mechanic’s liens, tax liens, and warrants.

4.3.2. Closing will occur within 15 days following the date on which all of the
conditions precedent in Section 4.3.1 have been satisfied. At closing, the Title Company
will record the Deed, Notice of Release of Easement, and Temporary Construction
Easement with the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office, after which time the Title
Company will release the Purchase Price and Settlement Payment to Seller. Buyer will
pay all costs associated with recording the Deed and the Construction Easement. The
County will pay all costs associated with recording the Notice of Release of Easement.

4.3.3. Taxes and assessments for the current year, applicable rents (if any), and
interest on assumed obligations will be prorated at Closing as of the Closing date, unless
otherwise agreed to in writing by the Parties in the settlement statement or otherwise.

5. POSSESSION. Seller will deliver physical possession of the Property to Buyer at the hour
of Closing.
6. POND AND FENCE. The Parties acknowledge and agree that: (i) Buyer intends to operate
the Property as a stormwater detention pond pursuant to all applicable laws and regulations and
to improve the Pond in a fashion identical to or equivalent in form and function to the attached
plans (Exhibit 9), meaning that the improvements Buyer intends to make to the Pond will have a
permanent drain at its lowest point; (ii) the Parties recognize and agree that the plans are draft
plans that are 60% complete and subject to change; (iii) Buyer, as the fee simple owner of the
Property, will have full discretion to use the Property as it sees fit in accordance with all applicable
laws and regulations; (iv) that Buyer will own and be solely responsible for the portions of the
existing Fence located on the Property (i.e., the eastern and northern portions); (iii) that Seller
will own and be solely responsible for the portion of the existing Fence located on the Remaining
Parcel (i.e., the southern and western portions of the Fence); (v) that Buyer and Seller will only
be responsible for operating, maintaining, and replacing their respective portions of the Fence in
accordance with the laws and regulations that govern their current and future respective uses (e.g.,
a stormwater detention pond for Buyer and a daycare for Seller); (vi) Buyer and Seller may
remove their respective portions of the Fence at any time without prior notice to the other Party;
(vii) Buyer and Seller will each be solely responsible for any additional fencing needs or
requirements that may be required for their respective needs and uses on their respective
properties; and (viii) Buyer will survey and stake the Property to delineate the property boundary
before beginning work on the improvements described in Exhibit 9.
7. FIRST RIGHT OF REFUSAL. Before selling the Property to any other potential
purchaser, Buyer will first offer in writing to sell the Property to Seller at an offer price (Offer
4

Price). Seller will then have thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice from Buyer to either
purchase the Property at the Offer Price, negotiate a different Offer Price, or to decline the purchase
of the Property, which Seller must do in writing. If the Parties are unable to reach an agreement
regarding the purpose of the Property within the thirty (30) days, Buyer will have satisfied its
obligations under the terms of this paragraph. Seller may not assign this first right of refusal.

8. CONFIRMATION OF BROKERAGE FEES & AGENCY DISCLOSURE. Seller
represents and warrants that the Property is not listed with any real estate brokerage or agent and
acknowledges that Buyer will not be responsible for the payment of any commission or real estate
agent fees to a seller’s agent. Likewise, Seller will not be responsible for the payment of any
commission or real estate agent fees and no portion of the total Purchase Price will be used to pay
any commission or real estate agent fees.

9. OTHER WARRANTIES & REPRESENTATIONS.

9.1 Condition of Title. Buyer agrees to accept title to the Property subject to the contents
of the commitment for title insurance as agreed to by Buyer herein. Buyer agrees to be responsible
for taxes, assessments, association fees and dues, utilities, and other services pertaining to the
Property after Closing.

9.2 Condition of Property. The Buyer is familiar with the Property and the Property is
being sold “as is” and the Buyer accepts the Property as is.

9.3 Other Seller Warranties. Seller further warrants that, to the best of Seller’s knowledge,
each of the following statements is true: (i) the consummation of the transactions contemplated by
this Contract will not constitute a default or result in the breach of any term or provision of any
contract or agreement to which Seller is a party so as to adversely affect the consummation of such
transactions; (ii) there is no action, suit, legal proceeding or other proceeding pending or threatened
against Seller and/or the Property which may adversely affect the transactions contemplated by
this Contract, in any court or before any arbitrator of any kind or before or by any governmental
body which may adversely affect the transactions contemplated by this Contract; and (iii) all work
which will be performed in, on or about the Property or materials furnished thereto which might
in any circumstances give rise to a mechanic’s or materialman’s lien, will be paid and all necessary
waivers of rights.to a mechanic’s or materialman’s lien for such work will be obtained.

10. ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY. The Buyer is familiar with the Property and all
potential liabilities or hazards. The Buyer is purchasing the Property in an “as-is” condition and
accepts its potential liabilities.

11. CHANGES DURING TRANSACTION. Seller agrees that from the Effective Date until
the date of Closing, Seller will not, without the prior written consent of Buyer: (i) make any
changes in any applicable existing leases; (ii) enter into any new leases; (iii) make any substantial
alterations or improvements to the Property; or (iv) incur any further financial encumbrances
against the Property.

5

12. RELEASE OF CLAIMS

12.1. Mutual Release. Subject to the terms of this Contract, the Parties fully and completely
release, acquit, waive, and forever discharge one another from any and all claims, causes of action,
or damages that were known or could have been known and that have been or could have been
asserted relative to the Stormwater Easement, the Maintenance Agreement, the Sego Property, the
Remaining Parcel, the Property, and any other related matter, dispute, issue, or controversy
involving the Parties.

12.2. Compromise and Settlement. The Parties represent, acknowledge, and agree that this
Contract is a compromise and settlement of claims and demands that are disputed, and nothing
herein will be construed as an admission of the validity of said claims or demands.

12.3. Abandonment of Claims and Rights. Upon the completion of the Closing, Seller
forever disclaims, abandons, and terminates any rights or claims to the Stormwater Easement to
the extent the Stormwater Easement burdens the Property, the Maintenance Agreement, and the
Property.

12.4. No Other Representations. Except as set forth herein, each Party represents and
acknowledges that, in executing this Contract, it does not rely and has not relied upon any
representation or statement made by the other Party, or by any agents, representatives, or attorneys
of the other Party with regard to the subject matter, basis, or fact of this Contract.

13. ATTORNEY FEES AND COSTS. In the event of litigation to enforce this Contract, the
prevailing Party will be entitled to costs and reasonable attorney fees.
14. NON-MERGER. This Contract will survive Closing and not be merged into the Closing and
Deed.
15. DIGITAL IMAGES AND COUNTERPARTS. Email of a digital image of a signed copy
of this Contract, any addenda and counteroffers, and the emailing of any signed digital image will
constitute delivery of an original. This Contract and any addenda and counteroffers may be
executed in counterparts.
16. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Contract: (i) supersedes any other agreements, whether
written or oral, that may have been made or entered into by the Parties (or by any director, officer,
or representative of such Parties) relating to the matter contemplated hereby; and (ii) constitutes
the entire agreement by and between the Parties, and there are no representations, warranties,
covenants, agreements, or commitments except as expressly set forth herein.
17. AMENDMENTS. This Contract may be amended only by a written agreement properly
executed by the Parties. No verbal instructions, understandings, etc., nor letters, emails, or other
documents signed by one of the Parties will operate as an amendment to this Contract.
18. TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE. Time is of the essence in this Contract.

6

19. ASSIGNMENT. It is expressly understood that the Parties may not assign their duties and
obligations arising under this Contract.
20. TITLES AND HEADINGS. The titles and headings in the Contract for the convenience of
the Parties only and are not to be considered when interpreting this Contract.
21. GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE. This Contract will be governed and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Utah. Further, the Parties agree that the courts in and for
the State of Utah will have exclusive jurisdiction over all claims relating to or arising out of this
Contract, or the breach thereof, whether sounding in contract, tort, or otherwise, and that any action
resulting from this Contract will be brought in Salt Lake County, Utah, subject to the dispute
resolution provisions herein.
22. FORCE MAJEAUR. Performance under this Contract will be excused during any event of
force majeure, which means any cause beyond the reasonable control of the affected Party which,
despite the exercise of due diligence, such Party is unable to prevent or overcome, including
without limitation an act of God causing material interference with the performance of the
Contract.
23. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS. Where the performance of any act required under this
Contract would conflict with or be in violation of any statute, regulation, ordinance, judicial or
administrative order, or any other legal requirement, non-performance will not constitute a breach
of this Contract.
24. SEVERABILITY. If any of the provisions of this Contract are held to be invalid or
unenforceable in whole or in part, all other provisions will nevertheless continue to be valid and
enforceable with the invalid or unenforceable parts severed from the remainder of this Contract.
25. WAIVER. The waiver by either Party of a breach, default, delay or omission of any of the
provisions of this Contract by the other Party will not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent
breach of the same or other provisions.
26. COUNTERPARTS. This Contract may be executed in counterparts, and when each Party
has signed and delivered one such counterpart, each counterpart will be deemed an original, and
when taken together with the other signed counterparts, will constitute one Contract. Copies or
facsimiles of signatures to this Contract have the same effect as if the signatures were placed on
the originals and will be deemed to be fully executed by each signatory.
27. NOTICES. All demands and notices and invoices required to be given hereunder will be
considered served on the date when sent to the below email addresses, personally delivered, or
deposited in any mail facility maintained by the United States Post Office, postage prepaid, to the
below contact information, which the Parties may update and amend from time to time through
written notice to the other Parties:

7

To Seller: To Buyer:
SEGO PROPERTIES, LLC MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
c/o Darrell Sego c/o Greg Schulz, Administrator
488 River Meadow Drive 8952 West Magna Main Street
Alpine, Utah 84004 Magna, Utah 84044
darrellsego@gmail.com greg.schulz@magnacity.org
To County:
SALT LAKE COUNTY
c/o Kade Moncur
Flood Control/Engineering
2001 S. State St. N3-120
Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
Kmoncur@slco.org
28. INCORPORATION OF EXHIBITS. With the exception of Exhibits 1 “Stormwater
Easement” and 2 “Maintenance Agreement”, all other exhibits are incorporated and made a part
of this Contract as if set forth fully herein.
29. INCORPORATION OF RECITALS. The recitals to this Contract are incorporated as part
of this Contract as if set forth fully herein.
30. NONCOMPLIANCE. In the event ofa default or breach of any of the terms of this Contract
by the Parties, the non-defaulting Party will provide the defaulting Party with written notice of the
default and will provide the non-defaulting Party with thirty (30) days from the date of the notice
to remedy the default or such time as is reasonably required to remedy the default. If the defaulting
Party fails to remedy the default, the non-defaulting Party may exercise any right or remedy that
it may have at law or equity.
31. LEGAL EXPENSES. [f either Party brings a legal action to enforce or interpret any term
of this Contract, the prevailing Party will be entitled to recover, in addition to any other damages
or award, all reasonable legal costs and fees associated with the action.
32. AUTHORITY. Each of the Parties represents and warrants that it possesses the authority
necessary to enter into this Contract and that this Contract has been duly authorized, executed, and
constitutes a legal, valid, and binding obligation, enforceable in accordance with its terms.
33. LEGAL REVIEW. The Parties represent and agree that they had full opportunity to review
this Contract and that they accept the terms hereof. The rule that such an agreement is to be
construed against its drafter will not be applied to this Contract.
34. NECESSARY ACTS OF COOPERATION. The Parties agree to do any act or thing
necessary to execute any and all documents or instruments required by this Contract and which
8

are necessary and proper to make effective the provisions of and transaction contemplated by this
Contract. Provided, however, that neither Party will act, or purport to act, on behalf of the other
without the express written consent of the other Party.

| 35. NO THIRD-PARTY BENEFICIARIES. This Contract is not intended to be a third-party
beneficiary contract for the benefit of any third parties.
36. GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY ACT. The Parties further understand and agree that
Buyer and County are governmental entities subject to the obligations, requirements, protections,
and safeguards of the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, Utah Code Section 63G-7-101 et. seq.
and that none of the Parties waive nor relinquish any applicable provisions or protections of that
Act.
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
a political subdivision of Utah
By: 47 VA, Me Date: / — ) |
Name: Dan Peay —
Its: | Mayor
ATTEST:
By: Dh ei eadigsiene™ Date:
Name: Sherrie Swensen
Its: Clerk
Approved as to Form:
By: Date:
Name: Paul Ashton
Its: | Legal Counsel

9

SEGO PROPERTIES, LLC
a Utah limitedTiability company
By: gt Date: MYhed LF fez,
Name: Darretl Sego
Its: Owner
10

SALT LAKE COUNTY
a political subdivision of Utah
By: Date:
Name: Jennifer Wilson
Its: Mayor
ATTEST:
By: Af Sore Date:
Name: Sherrie Swensen
Its: Clerk
Approved as to Form:
By: Date:
Name:
Its: | Deputy County Attorney
11

Exhibit 1
“Stormwater Easement”

; - SK Cc 4. ue od Flaso Lowz2o2
see Spit Dr eee . . to ee ES Sor Gos tdasy
Pofpen! yuafer, oe ee Lente. rere frre
. yoy
awit Lake County, wut, cy RAINAGEEASGMENT . FEB 21976 7
. sorsranasstecsennsconsgess
3067549
HOMES OF DISTINCTION, INC., a Corporation of the State of Utah, GRANTOR,
* does hereby convey and warrant to SALT LAKE COUNTY, a Body Corporate and
Politic of the State of Utah, GRANTEE, for good and valuable consideration,
the receipt and adequacy of which is hereby acknowledged, a permanent
easement for the purpose of maintaining and/or laying a storm drain pipe-
Vine and its appurtenant parts therete for the transportation of surface
draining water over, across, through, and under the premises situated in
Salt Lake County, Utah, safd easement so described as follows:
rm Beginning at a point which is North 89°S6'34" West 1000.45
iid feet and South 0°07'57" West 40.00 feet from the Northeast
R Corner of Section 33, Township 7 South, Range 2 Hest, Salt Lake
6s Base & Meridian; and running thence South 0°07'57" West 183.00
y feats thence South 61°52'10" Hest 25.472 feet; thence North 0°
07'57" East 198,748 feet; thence South 89°56'34" East 20.00 feet
% to the point of beginning.
z
$ TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the same unto SALT LAKE COUNTY with the perpetual right
i of ingress and egress to, from, and along said easement and with the right
A to operate, maintain, repair, replace and/or remove satd pipeline and its
appurtenant parts.
GRANTEE agrees to make al] necessary repairs to safd GRANTOR'S property to
a Tike manner as 4 was prior to construction.
HOMES OF DISTINCTION, INC.
By: Mijhaa L Tafa ?
STATE OF UTAH
SS.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE
On the 7th ~—s day of _ February ss 1978, personally
appeared before me _ Stephen L, Tripp tte
the signer of the above instrument, who duly Wiedged to rep that: +: , *
ge . = sw
he executed the same. fP 0 th
fee: ye
ca al Ce
> rane 0S
SALES eal =
My Commission Expires 10/14/79 _ Residing in _Sandv. Utah tn a
«J
=
m
. e iva)
=i

Exhibit 2
“Maintenance Agreement”

Ze SALT LAKE
COUNTY
CONTRACTS & PROCUREMENT
CONTRACT COVER PAGE
Contract Number: PN17105C_ _—Version: 1 Desc: PWE 7373W 3500S Maintenance
Supplier Name: SEGO PROPERTIES :
Comments: PWE- Exempt Non-Compete - Maintenance Agreement. County, at its sole expense to install
certain improvements on the easement to allow the detention pond thereon to drain into a storm drain, as
well as complete varlous jandscaping work (County has a drainage easement over the property and owner
wants the improved landscaping). Owner is then responsible for the upkeep and maintenance of the
landscaping improvements. IF county has to expend funds on the maintenance, owner will reimburse County
within 30 days. Term perpetual until terminated in writing (put out 10 years to 10/01/2027 for agency review
at least that often)
Contract Amount: $1.00
Agency Name: PW-Project Management & Design
Period Performance from 10/2/2017 to 10/1/2027
Procurement Type: EXO Exempt Other
Reason Code:
Buyer: CMarsing
SLCCVRWOS_V1

se | eo ‘eh =a AL
VN PHODSC
Contract
Salt Lake County
is ore : *
tis WB LAK
Piteewn (UN T
When recorded, mail to:
Salt Lake County
Enyinecring
2001 South State Street N3-600
Salt Lake Cily, Utah 84190-4050
Affects Parcel No(s): 1433227028000U
MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT
$$$,
rhis Maintenance Agreement (this “Agreement”) is made and entered into this 77“ day of
J aris . 201 F by and between Salt Lake County, a bady corporate and politic of
the State of Wtah ( the “County”), and Sego Properties, LLC, a Utah limited liability corporation
with a revistered address of 488 River Drive Meadow Drive Alpine, Utah 84004 (the "Owner".
RECITALS
WHEREAS, the County is authorized and required to regulate and control the disposition
of storm and surface waters within the unincorporated County and the Magna Metro Township
and
WHEREAS. the Owner hereby represents and acknowledves that it is the owner in fee
simple of certain real property located at 7373 West 3500 South Magna, Utah 84044, Salt Lake
County parcel number [4332270280000 (the “Property”): and
WHEREAS, the County has a drainage casement over the parcel. as evidenced by the
Surface Drainage Easement attached hereto and incorporated by this reference as Exhibit “A™: and
WHEREAS, the County is desires to install certain improvements an the casement to allow
the detention pond thereon to drain into a storm drain, as well as complete various landscaping
work (collectively called the “Project’’); and
WHEREAS, the Owner desires for his property lo be improved by this landscaping, and is
willing to maintain said landscaping after its completion by the County: and
WHEREAS, the County and the Owner desire to enter inte this maintenance agreement to
set forth the obligations and responsibilities of each party in completing the Project.

PNITMIOS C7
AGREEMENT
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual benefits received and to be received
by the Owner, its successors and assigns, and the mutual covenants contained herein, the parties
agres es follows:
SECTION 4
Construction of Project. The County shall, at its sole cost and expense, complete the Project as
approved by the County. The Owner shall not be responsible for any initial construction work for
the Project. As part of the Project, County will complete the following landscaping improvements
upon its easement and on the Property: (1) install lawn and (2) install sprinkler system (the
“Landscaping Improvements"),
SECTION 2
associated
Hmprovements located within the easement area, including the lawn snd sprinkler ayetens “Ite
Owner shall, at its sole cost and expense, perform all work necessary to keep these improvements
in good working candition.
chal, a its ante expense, make repairs,
Owner to Make Repairs. The Owner cost and such
changes or modifications to the Landscaping Improvements within the casement area as may be
determined as reasonshly necessary so longas these improvements are adequately maintained and
continue to operate as designed and approved.
SECTION 4
Reimbursement of Costs, In the event the County, pursuant to this Agreement, inours any costs,
or expends any finds resulting from enforcement or cost for lehor, use of equipment, supplies,
materials, and the like related to operation and maintenance of the Landscaping Improvements, the
Owner shall reimburse the County upon demand, within thirty (30) days of recelpt thereof for all
actual costs incurred by the County. After said thirty (30) days, such amount shall be deemed
delinquent and shall be subject to interest at the rete of ten percent (10%) per annum, Owner shall
also be lieble for any collection costs, including attomey’s fees and court costs, incurred by the
County in collection of delinquent payments. The Owner hereby authorizes the County to assess
any of the ebove-described costs, if remained unpaid, by recording a lien against the Property,
da This till \o ecitil inn sitinstinn
Su Recorder
Property shall be held, sold, conveyed or otherwise transfered, it shall be subject to the covenants,
stipulations, agreements and provisions of this Agreement which shall apply to, bind and be
obligatory upon the Owner hereto, its successors and assigns, and shell bind all present and
subsequent owners of the Property described herein.

PNIM0SC
Severability sicidebia it Gls Agena dhadl be siecle wad phrase,
Cisuse. The

clause, senfence or provision is declared unconstitatlonel, or the applicshility thereof tothe Owner
Se A eet eS, ek nN le Senses a cnt bo He

SECTION 7
Utah Law and Venue. This Agreement shall be interpreted under the laws of the State of Utah.
Suits for any claims or for any breach or dispute arising out of this Agreement shall be maintained
in the appropriate court of competent jurisdiction in Salt Lake County, Uteh.

SECTION 8
Indenmification, This Agreement imposes no lisbility of any kind whatsoever on the County.
The Owner hereby agrees to indemnify and hold the County and its officers, employees, agents
and representatives from and against all actions, claims, lawsuits, proceedings, liability, damages,
losses, and expenses (including attorneys’ fees and court costs) that result from the performance
of this agreement, but only to the extent the same are caused by any negligent or wrongfal act or
omissions of the Owner, and the Owner’s officers, employees, agents, and representatives.

SECTION 9
Amendments. This Agreement shall not be modified except by written instrument executed by
the County and the owner of the Property at the time of modification, and no modification shall be
effective until recorded in the office of the County Recorder.

SECTION 10
Subordination Requirement. If there is a lien, trust deed or other property interest Recorded
against the Property, the trustee, lien holder, etc., shall be required to execute a subondination
agreement or other acceptable recorded document agreeing to subordinate their interest to this
Agreement.

[SIGNATURE PAGE TO FOLLOW]

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have signed and subscribed their names hereon
and have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first set forth above,
SALT LAKE COUNTY
tf
Mayor or Designee
Administrative Approval:
By: | 7
Kade Moncur, .
Division Director
Date:__“7-/ [FY 2d 1 ,
Approved as to Form:
ay:_( Jngploctn.g
Angeia Lone,
Deputy District Attorney
Date: IZIZ1{Z01 \e
OWNER
By: pS
Title: OMpPEZ. —DJe Gr booleeres
Date:__¢ f os #4, ZolAt-
(Must be notarized, see attached)

PN | Wose.
STATE OF UTAH )
: SS.
County of Salt-Lake- U+<\V\ )

Onthis__|4\, day of _\ Jt ,20_\7] , personally
appeared before me__| X\\) ¢ \\ Seq , who being by me duly
sworn, did say that he is the Ow viev of ecto 4} Yone UNS
a (Ate limited liability corporation, and that the foregoing
instrument was signed in behalf of said corporation by authority of its Board of Directors, and s/he
acknowledged to me that said corporation executed the same?

ye

NOTARY PUBLIC

Residing in Salt Lake County, Utah
My Commission Expires:
Der. & 2020 a CHELSIE JONES

LEE Notary Public - State of Utah

ae io J Comm. No. 692362

wes 7 My Commission Expires on
: Dec 8, 2020

| PN (1105.
hibit A ce - a

. SFC SLE Fleso Gwe
De eS are een a £6 ee ees 8S” Sours Gostasy
oie “afer, Bile Sinks UCD eo Mioswate ttrare
® Gaepareacerpeeceeesteel Tere RL TY
3067549
HOHES OF DISTINCTION, IHC., a Corporation of the State of Utah, GRANTOR,
* doef hereby convey and warrant to SALT LAKE COUNTY, a Body Corporate end
| Politic of the State of Utah, GRANTEE, for good and valuable consideration,
| the receipt and adequacy of which is horeby acknowledged, a permanent
easexant for the purpose of maintaining and/or laying a storm drain pipe-
Vine and tts appurtenant parts thereto fer the transpertatien of surface
draining water over, acress, through, and under the prenises situated fn
Salt Lake County, Utah, safd easement so deserfbed as folloust
&®
ing at Int which is Horth 69°66'S4" Hest 1000
8 feat and Sty Oa 6 Hoe 0,00 fost fvon he freaaat Mi
y Sa rar Pen RE
i poet tah oho a My Heo) Sah ‘S7" Hest 163.60
gy feats thence South 62 Mast 25.476 feats thence orth O°
O7'S7" East 198.748 feat; thenca South 85°S6'S4" East 20.00 feat
% to the point of baginniag.
3 TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the same unto SALT LAKE COUNTY with the perpetual right
& of ingress and egress to, fren, and along safd casement end with the right
WY to cpsrate, maintain, repair, replace and/or resove saté pipeline and its
eppurtensat parts.
GRAHTEE agrees to make al] necessary repairs to safd GRANTOR'S proparty to
& Tike canner as {¢ was pricr to construction.
HOHES OF DISTINCTION, Tic.
By: hiphes Lag 2
STATE OF UTAH |
COUNTY OF SALT Laxe )
On the ___7th__ day of ___ February ___» 1993, personally
epnesrad before me _ Stephen Ls Tripp lt .
tha signer of the above tnstruxant, who duly gelngledged to py-that: -
he executed tha sama. pt ‘- ae
MATE
Hy Comission Expires 10/14/79 Residing fn _ Sandy, Utah
a

Exhibit 3
Legal Descriptions for the “Remaining Parcel” and the “Property”

“REMAINING PARCEL”
Lot 1, Proposed Basin 7 Subdivision
All of Lot 1 of the proposed Basin 7 Subdivision being part of an entire tract of land described in
that Quit Claim Deed recorded as Entry No. 11571638, in Book 10240, at Page 8787, in the Office
of the Salt Lake County Recorder. Said Lot 1 is located in the Northeast Quarter of Section 33,
Township 1 South, Range 2 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian and is described as follows:
Beginning at the northeasterly corner of Stephanie Estates Subdivision, platted and recorded as
Entry #2852330, in Book 76-9, on Page 182, in the Office of said Recorder; thence
N. 89°56’34” W. 155.55 feet along the southerly boundary line of said entire tract; thence
N. 00°07°57” E. 140 feet along the westerly boundary line to the northwesterly corner of said
entire tract and the southerly right of way line of 3500 South Street; thence S. 89°56’34” E. 124.69
feet along the northerly boundary line of said entire tract and southerly right of way line; thence
S. 36°48°18” W. 22.65 feet; thence S. 03°15’10” W. 82.43 feet; thence S. 89°20’48” E. 48.87 feet
to the easterly boundary line of said entire tract; thence S. 00°07°57” W. 39.04 feet along said
easterly boundary line to the point of beginning.
The above-described Lot 1 of the proposed Basin 7 Subdivision contains 17,244 square feet in
area, or 0.396 acres, more or less.
BASIS OF BEARING: N. 89°56’34” W. along the north section line between the Northeast
corner and the North Quarter corner of said Section 33, Township 1 South, Range 2 West, Salt
Lake Base and Meridian.

“THE PROPERTY”
Lot 2, Proposed Basin 7 Subdivision
All of Lot 2 of the proposed Basin 7 Subdivision being part of an entire tract of land described in
that Quit Claim Deed recorded as Entry No. 11571638, in Book 10240, at Page 8787, in the Office
of the Salt Lake County Recorder. Said Lot 2 is located in the Northeast Quarter of Section 33,
Township 1 South, Range 2 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian and is described as follows:
Beginning at a point in the easterly boundary line of said entire tract 39.04 feet N. 00°07°57” E.
of the northeasterly corner of Stephanie Estates Subdivision, platted and recorded as Entry
#2852330, in Book 76-9, on Page 182, in the Office of said Recorder; thence N. 89°20°48” W.
48.87 feet; thence N. 03°15’10” E. 82.43 feet; thence N. 36°48’18” E. 22.65 feet to the northerly
boundary line of said entire tract and the southerly right of way line of 3500 South Street; thence
S. 89°56’34” E. 30.86 along the said northerly boundary line and southerly right of way line to the
northeasterly corner of said entire tract; thence S. 00°07’57” W. 100.96 feet along said easterly
boundary line to the point of beginning.
The above-described Lot 2 of the proposed Basin 7 Subdivision contains 4,533 square feet in area,
or 0.104 acres, more or less.
BASIS OF BEARING: N. 89°56’34” W. along the north section line between the Northeast
corner and the North Quarter corner of said Section 33, Township 1 South, Range 2 West, Salt
Lake Base and Meridian.

Exhibit 4
Subdivision Application

G R E—E AT ER S A L T lL A K CE
fr 2 oe © OFFICE USE ONLY
4 y’ Municipal Services File Number:
Distr ict Accepted Date:
Subdivision
Important: This application should only be submitted after meeting or speaking with a planner to ensure
the correct application type is being made and to clarify what documents are required with your submittal.
Failure to do so may require resubmittal or delay your project. General requirements can be found on
subsequent pages.
Owner/Applicant Information
Name: 9@go Properties, LLC
Last First
Address: 488 River Meadow Drive Alpine, Utah 84004
Street City/State Zip
Email: darrellsego@gmail.com Contact Number: (801) 995-1460
Agent/Representative Information
Name: D&gO Darrell
Last First
Organization/Business Name: Sego Properties, LLC
Address: 488 River Meadow Drive Alpine, Utah 84004
Street City/State Zip
Email: darrellsego@gmail.com Contact Number: (801) 995-1460
Development Information
Property Address/Location: “3/3 W. 3500 S. Magna, Utah 84044
Street City/State Zip
Parcel Number(s): 14-33-227-028-0000
Acres: Proposed Use: Stormwater detention pond
Existing Zone: R-2-6.5 Existing Use (if applicable) daycare center
Description of request & Project name (if applicable):
The Magna Metro Township is purchasing a portion of the above parcel as part of a
settlement agreement with applicant. Magna will operate the purchased parcel as a
terci ti ‘Thi huivision’ i tedt-te affect -_ ,
385-468-6700 2001 So. State Street, Ste. N3-600, Salt Lake City, UT 84190 www.msd.utah.gov

a, 2
: bh Heth ‘tis i i |
Belpre P 3 HE 2 yt eeeeee Hy z 395 g |
‘alll; i if} reir ii Huet H A] Sede [ela |e
djs > E aiviiun bi ae au E| osae [3 |: 8
se : ge gd Ea 5 yb] Seee 18 | 3
ile oO 8 Hite iy fz anges & a >aSy |e | 5 : 5
Palette Sofa | iy lime ii ye Ha G : mass (5/2 |* §
Ee ) = 3 BiLGE|G gd fe y de ae lus 3
a au i @ FF i ite l. fos] 39 ie 3 “W S538 eo3
o in| Ew = ag Be ii ie itt e (23 sep S} H Zags free |?
2 i i ay — 5 4 fgistited & 35 es a] RIS Het |b
a A gg Fi 3 5 FA eit 3a $5
ill i at G Faia 7 5 ale : i | a ne: :
“ : = 5228353 E
Halll PHnRHET HT Ga |] Ep
agetre £3 oR
Miiiiie Gil, bil] 22
Be er 3 aR Ss § y pass
i 3) £83 OEE GEE WUD ||2)]) a fF
Se oesee i tlt a |e ase |3 i
34 EBos® 32s Ea fi ye | SBR 5 i
38 :* Eg G8 OD] 17 “"_|BER
a a3e521.8-1.32 248 2 il
2 oF as 5 = a
= " 3 = 5
q | . Hl: :
3g 4638 sia 2
Ha ae Z 2
| Hh 2 [a 28 8
Of | & tH |_.S-~ ge | ft BEE
Dose I if as i! ir aes 1S e 3 :
Ot 8 gpiie ei} ° 4 . BIE Ey ;
Mee 868} ey i! Eg © ids
Denes g ass _ i ys 2
M. 98ée | geen rE Es — wt 4 ag
w3o% ; 7) X 3 ws
2G i) ; 196 Ba 2299 78 | Es ae _ ike 5 H
ELE: mi Joa qa 4538
<< ge3 3 ee | i ‘
F o 4 = ame Eee) a . 4 elo gs
; r 7 tls, gs Of REE
& iis sees ia 2B Ob
if : POE : HE
- Fs ft OF
Ba I) cle?
“leg
a F audit f
] ered ° & 88 g
“9 is e ge & | "
3 Pe Se |i 3 ne 6 H ;
3 Sea fit | a s 3h Jee
fe =) : F |
% re
sara

Exhibit 5
Variance Application
|

G R E AT E R S A L T LA K CE
A si “ OFFICE USE ONLY
fi : Municipal Services Fle Number
D i} st rict Accepted Date:
Variance, Exception or Waiver
Important: This application should only be submitted after meeting or speaking with a planner to ensure
the correct application type is being made and to clarify what documents are required with your submittal.
Failure to do so may require resubmittal or delay your project. General requirements can be found on
subsequent pages.
Owner/Applicant Information
Name: 2€gO Properties, LLC
Last First
Address: 408 River Meadow Drive Alpine, Utah 84004
Street City/State Zip
Email: darrellsego@gmail.com Contact Number: (801) 995-1460
Agent/Representative Information (if applicable)
Name: D&gO Darrell
Last First
Organization/Business Name: Sego Properties, LLC
Address: 408 River Meadow Drive Alpine, Utah 84004
Street City/State Zip
Email: darrellsego@gmail.com Contact Number: (001) 995-1460
Development Information
Property Address/Location: (3/3 W. 3500 S. Magna, Utah 84044
Street City/State Zip
Parcel Number(s): 14-33-227-028-0000
Acres: Proposed Use: Stormwater detention pond
Existing Zone: R-2-6.5 Existing Use (if applicable) @@YCare center
Description of request & Project name (if applicable):
The Magna Metro Township is purchasing a portion of the above parcel as part of a
settlement agreement with applicant. Magna will operate the purchased parcel as a
, ter-detenti hi division; tec] ittircily ti ;
385-468-6700 2001 So. State Street, Ste. N3-600, Salt Lake City, UT 84190 www.msd.utah.gov

Sego Properties, LLC
Variance Application
Project Description

The Magna Metro Township is purchasing a portion of parcel 14-33-227-028-0000 as part of a settlement
and purchase agreement with the applicant. More specifically, the agreement will resolve a dispute
stemming from an easement that Salt Lake County recorded against the parcel in 1978. The easement
authorized Salt Lake County to install and operate a storm drain pipeline but the County installed a
stormwater detention pond. Magna assumed Salt Lake County’s interests and responsibilities for the pond
when it incorporated in 2017. To resolve any disputes involving the pond, Magna has agreed to purchase
the portion of the above parcel on which the pond is located. This will require that portion of the parcel
to be subdivided and then deeded to Magna. After the subdivision, an existing commercial structure on
applicant’s remaining portion of the parcel will be located about nine feet from the new property line.
This conflicts with the setback requirements of Section 19-32-050(C), which requires 20 feet between a
non-residential main building and the property line. A variance is therefore needed.
Section 19.92.040 requires that the following factors be met for a variance to issue:

a. Literal enforcement of the zoning ordinance would cause an unreasonable hardship for the
applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general purposes of the zoning ordinance: The
purpose of the setback requirement is to provide sufficient distance between property lines and
particularly buildings. The subdivision will not change how the property is used nor allow for new
structures to be built, meaning that the current stormwater detention pond that has existed
since 1978 will remain — only ownership of the underlying land will change. Enforcing the setback
requirement would create an undue hardship by preventing applicant and Magna from
effectuating the terms of their settlement. With respect to Section 19-92-040(2), the variance is:
(1) located on the property for which the variance is sought; and (2) stems from conditions that
are unique to the property (i.e., the detention pond), which is not self-imposed or economic.

b. There are special circumstances attached to the property that do not generally apply to other
properties in the same district: See “a” above. This purpose of the variance is to effectuate the
terms of a settlement agreement that will not be possible without a variance.

c. Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial property right possessed by
other property in the same district: The easement Salt Lake County obtained in 1978 burdens
other properties. However, the County constructed a buried stormwater pipeline on those
properties, thereby allowing the owners of those properties almost full use of their land.
However, the construction of a stormwater detention pond instead of a pipeline on applicant’s
property prevents applicant from using the property to the same extent as the other burdened
parcels without compensation. The purpose of the settlement is to place applicant on parity with
the other property owners burdened by the easement by compensating it for the loss of the use
of the property and relieving applicant of any responsibilities associated with the pond. With
respect to: Section 19.92.040(3), these special circumstances relate to the pond and related
easement; and (b) the pond deprives applicant of the full use of its property.

d. The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and will not be contrary to the public
interest: The variance will not change how the property is used. It will only change the ownership

of the stormwater detention pond, which has been in the same location since 1978. As a result,
the variance will not affect the general plan or the public interest in any way.

e. The spirit of the zoning ordinance is observed and substantial justice done: See “a” above. The
variance will not result in buildings being constructed on the new parcel that Magna will
purchase. Denying the variance will prevent “substantial justice” from being done because it
would prevent applicant and Magna from effectuating the terms of their settlement.

f. Additional requirements are not possible: Section 19.92.040(F) prohibits the granting of a
variance if additional requirements can be imposed to mitigate any harmful effects or serve the
purpose of the setback requirement. No additional conditions are possible or necessary because
neither the existing structure nor the stormwater detention pond will change. They will remain
in their current locations as they have for decades.

Exhibit 6
Termination and Release of Easement

When Recorded, Return To:
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
c/o Greg Schulz, Administrator
8952 West Magna Main Street
Magna, Utah 84044
With a copy to:
SALT LAKE COUNTY
c/o Kade Moncur
Flood Control/Engineering
2001 S. State St. N3-120
Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
Parcel ID No. 14-33-227-028-0000 and [insert new parcel number for pond area afiér plat is recorded]
NOTICE OF RELEASE OF EASEMENT
The undersigned hereby abandons, disclaims, releases, and relinquishes all of its interests, rights,
and/or title relating to those portions of the Surface Drainage Easement executed on February 7,
1978, and recorded on February 21, 1978, as found in the official records of the Salt Lake Coun
Recorder’s Office on page 951 of Book 4627 (No. 3067549), that are located on iaataew neal
aber Se SOHAL Nothing in this notice of release of easement will alter or effect any other
ees of the Surface Drainage Easement located on parcels other than on SES easel
DATED this day of , 2021.
SALT LAKE COUNTY
By:
Its:

STATE OF UTAH )

§
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE COUNTY )

On this ss dday of © ——SC«ss«#2000221,, personally appeared before me
the signer named in the foregoing Notice of Release of Easement,
who being by me first duly sworn, acknowledged to me that he executed the same and that the
statements contained therein are true.

NOTARY PUBLIC

Exhibit 7
Quit Claim Deed
|

When Recorded, Return To:
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
c/o Greg Schulz, Administrator
8952 West Magna Main Street
Magna, Utah 84044
With a copy to:
SEGO PROPERTIES, LLC.
c/o Darrell Sego
488 River Meadow Drive
Alpine, Utah 84004
Parcel No. [insert when new parcel number is available after plat is recorded]
QUIT CLAIM DEED
FOR AND IN CONSIDERATION of the sum of TEN and 00/100 Dollars ($10.00) cash in hand
paid, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of all of which are
hereby acknowledged, SEGO PROPERTIES, LLC, a Utah limited liability company
(“Grantor”), has bargained and sold, and by these presents do transfer and convey to the MAGNA
METRO TOWNSHIP, a political subdivision of the State of Utah (“Grantee”), certain land in
Salt Lake County, State of Utah, being more particularly described as:
Lot 2, Proposed Basin 7 Subdivision
All of Lot 2 of the proposed Basin 7 Subdivision being part of an entire tract of land described in
that Quit Claim Deed recorded as Entry No. 11571638, in Book 10240, at Page 8787, in the
Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder. Said Lot 2 is located in the Northeast Quarter of
Section 33, Township 1 South, Range 2 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian and is described as
follows:
Beginning at a point in the easterly boundary line of said entire tract 39.04 feet N. 00°07°57” E.
of the northeasterly corner of Stephanie Estates Subdivision, platted and recorded as Entry
#2852330, in Book 76-9, on Page 182, in the Office of said Recorder; thence N. 89°20°48” W.
48.87 feet; thence N. 03°1510” E. 82.43 feet; thence N. 36°48’18” E. 22.65 feet to the northerly
boundary line of said entire tract and the southerly right of way line of 3500 South Street; thence
S. 89°56’34” E. 30.86 along the said northerly boundary line and southerly right of way line to
the northeasterly corner of said entire tract; thence S. 00°07°57” W. 100.96 feet along said
easterly boundary line to the point of beginning.
The above described Lot 2 of the proposed Basin 7 Subdivision contains 4,533 square feet in
area, or 0.104 acre, more or less.

BASIS OF BEARING: N. 89°56734” W. along the north section line between the Northeast
corner and the North Quarter corner of said Section 33, Township 1 South, Range 2 West, Salt
Lake Base and Meridian.
This Quit Claim Deed is subject to all easements, rights of ways, covenants, restrictions,
reservations, applicable building and zoning ordinances and use regulations and restrictions of
record, and payment of accruing property taxes and assessments.
WITNESS, the hand of said Grantor this day of , 2021.

SEGO PROPERTIES, LLC

By: Darrell Sego, Owner
State of Utah )

§

County of )
On this day of , 2021, before me, , anotary
public, personally appeared Darrell Sego, proved on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the
person whose name is subscribed to this instrument, and acknowledged that he executed the same.
Witness my hand and official seal.
(notary signature)
