MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO.: 19-08-03 DATE: August 27, 2019

A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL

APPROVING AN INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN MAGNA
AND SALT LAKE COUNTY TO TRANSFER $500,000 TO MAGNA TO
FUND THE CONSTRUCTION OF 2550 SOUTH BETWEEN 7200 WEST

AND 8000 WEST PURSUANT TO SB234
RECITALS

A. The Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) is a municipality pursuant to Utah Code §§ 10-2a-401
et seq.

B. The Magna Metro Township Council (the “Council”) is the municipal legislative body for
Magna pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-501.

C. Salt Lake County (the “County”) is a County pursuant to Title 17: “Counties.”

D. Pursuant to SB234 “Inland Port Authority” (2018), the construction of 2550 South between
7200 West and 8000 West was identified by the legislature as a needed roadway future
development.

E. The Attached Interlocal Agreement (“Agreement”), hereinafter known as Exhibit A, provides
Magna $500,000 Dollars from the Local Option Transportation Sales Tax the County has
collected to fund projects identified by the Utah State Legislature during the 2018 and 2019
General Sessions.

F. To promote the future development of the property between U-201, 2550 South, 7200 West
and 8000 West, the construction of 2550 South is necessary to Magna.

RESOLUTION
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED the Council hereby approves and authorizes the Mayor to
sign, subject to approval as to form by the Magna Attorney, the attached Interlocal Agreement
and accepts the $500,000.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Magna, Salt Lake County, Utah this Z) day of August,
2019.
FOR THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP:
7 net
ATTEST DAN W. PEAY, MAY:
‘ » y ; . APPROVED AS TO FORM:
SHERRIE SWENSEN
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER VY ee
PAUL H. ASHTON
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
VOTING: y) IN
COUNCILMEMBER HULL ff i LE
MAYOR PEAY 4 Zz
COUNCILMEMBER PEEL AVE
wy,
COUNCILMEMBER PROKOPIS Gi VE

VE SALT LAKE
COUNTY
CONTRACTS & PROCUREMENT
CONTRACT SUMMARY PAGE (INTERNAL USE)
Contract Number: 0000002318 Version: 1 Desc: ORD 2650 S 7200 to 83000 W
| Supplier Name: MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
Comments: ORD- Interlocal - First Class Highway Fund; County to transfer up to $500,000.90 from the
County Transportation Funds to the Metro Township to reimburse the Metro Township for certain costs
incurred by the Metro Township for new road construction at 2650 S from 7200 W to 8000 W, as long as the
costs are allowable uses for County Transportation Funds described in Subsection 72-2-121 of Utah Code.
Term to the earlier of (i) the date the Metro Township has been disbursed the Maximum Reimbursable
Amount, {ii} the date the agreement is terminated, or (iii) 06/30/2025
Contract Amount: $500,000.00
Agency Name: Regnl Trans, Housng & Econ Dev
Period Performance from 8/21/2019 to 6/30/2025
Procurement Type: EXI Exempt Interlocal
Reason Code:
Buyer: RMatthes
SLCCVRWOS_V1

Sl] i
SALT LAKE
COUNTY July 16, 2019
COUNTY COUNCIL
Richard Snelgrove,
hai -
ce B Ms. Antigone Carlson
a amt Contracts Coordinator
ASE Contracts & Procurement Division
Tae Rm. N4-600, Government Center
Im Bra i
Polya oi Salt Lake City, Utah
Arlyn Bradshaw Dear Ms. Carlson:
District #1
Michaet Jensen The Salt Lake County Council, at its meeting held this day, approved the
District #2 attached RESOLUTION NO. 5610 authorizing execution of an INTERLOCAL
F 7 AGREEMENT between Salt Lake County for its Regional Transportation
A Winder N ;
District #3 St eee Housing and Economic Development Department and Magna Metro Township
- First Class Highway Projects Funds.
Ann Granato
District #4
Salt Lake County will transfer $500,000 from its First Class State Highway
Suave Dery Projects Fund to Magna Metro Township to be used for new road construction
at approximately 2650 South from 7200 West to 8000 West.
Max Burdick
oe Pursuant to the above action, you are hereby authorized to effect the same.
Respectfully yours,
SALT LAKE COUNTY COUNCIL
SHERRIE SWENSEN, COUNTY CLERK
ore Sayalons idnunclrcr
Deputy Clerk
gg
pe: Darrin Casper/Mayor’s Office
Helen Peters/THE Department
Salt Lake County Government Center
2001 South State Street, Suite N-2200 | PO Box 144575 | Salt Lake City, UT 84114-4575
SALT LAKE COUNTY Tel: 385.468.7500 | Fax: 385.468.7501 | www.slco.org

EXHIBIT 7A
AKE 2001 So. State Street
ZA SALT L COUNTY Salt Lake City, Utah 84114
aa
<
SALT LAKE
COUNTY Agenda Item
ee
File #: 19-849
ee
Topic/Discussion Title:
A resolution of the Salt Lake County Council approving execution of an interlocal cooperation agreement with the
Magna Metro Township providing for the transfer of County transportation funds for a transportation project.
Description: The State Legislature enacted Senate Bill 268 during the 2019 General Session, that included an
appropriation of $500,000 for new road construction at approximately 2650 South from 7200 West to 8000
West in Magna Township..
Requested Action: Consent
Presenter(s): If necessary, Helen Peters
Time Needed: Consent
Time Sensitive: No
Specific Time(s): No
Requesting Staff Member: Helen Peters
Will You be Providing a PowerPoint: No
Please attach the supporting documentation you plan to provide for the packets. Agenda items must be approved by Wednesday at 11:00
am. While not ideal, if PowerPoint presentations are not yet ready, you can submit them by 10 am the Friday morning prior to the COW
mecting. Items without documentation may be withheld from consideration for that COW meeting.
eee
SALT LAKE COUNTY Page 1 of 1 Printed on 7/3/2019
powered by Legistar™

RESOLUTIONNO. 56/0 Suly (6 2019
: A RESOLUTION OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY COUNCIL APPROVING
| EXECUTION OF AN INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT WITH
THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP PROVIDING FOR THE TRANSFER OF
COUNTY TRANSPORTATION FUNDS FOR A TRANSPORTATION
PROJECT.
|
WITNESSETH
WHEREAS, Salt Lake County (the “County”) and the Magna Metro Township (the “Metro
Township”) are “public agencies” as defined by the Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CoDE
ANN. §§ 11-13-101 et seg., and, as such, are authorized by the Cooperation Act to each enter into
. an interlocal cooperation agreement to act jointly and cooperatively on the basis of mutual _.
advantage; ~~

WHEREAS, during the 2019 General Session, the Utah State Legislature enacted Senate
Bill 268, which included an appropriation of $500,000 for new road construction at
approximately 2650 South from 7200 West to 8000 West in Magna Township, found at Utah
Code Ann. § 72-2-121(4)(m)(xi). .

WHEREAS, the County desires to use the County Transportation Funds to further regional
transportation by funding the costs of transportation projects throughout the County in accordance
with other applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations; and

WHEREAS, the County now desires to enter into an interlocal cooperation agreement with
the Metro Township, which agreement is attached hereto as ATTACHMENT A (the “Interlocal
Agreement”), to provide for the transfer of County Transportation Funds to the Metro Township
on a reimbursement basis for a certain transportation project, as more fully described herein and
in the Interlocal Agreement.

RESOLUTION

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED, by the County Council of Salt Lake
County:

1. That the Interlocal Agreement between Salt Lake County and the Metro Township is
approved, in substantially the form attached hereto as ATTACHMENT A, and that the

Salt Lake County Mayor is authorized to execute the same.

2. That each Interlocal Agreement will become effective as stated in each Interlocal
Agreement.

| APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Salt Lake City, Salt Lake County, Utah, this [Gc
day of _.\ uly . 2019.
7? 4
(Sanaa Ly, Lf 72
Richard Snelgrove Chair)
ATTEST: “
GQ c
Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Voting:
Council Member Bradley 44 e
Council Member Bradshaw ye! PE
Council Member Burdick y id
Council Member DeBry ve!
Council Member Ghorbani y! id
Council Member Granato pe
Council Member Jensen Whe"
Council Member Newton Wile %
Council Member Snelgrove hue”
“¢
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Digitally signed
Ja son by Jason Rose .
Date: 2019.07.02
Rose 11:30:37 -06'00'
2

ATTACHMENT A
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
|
{
3

County Contract No.
(TO22ADOLBNT
DA Log No. 19-13949
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
between
SALT LAKE COUNTY
and
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP

This Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (this “Agreement”) is entered into by and
between SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah (the
“County”) and MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP, a municipal corporation of the State of Utah
(the “Metro Township”). The County and the Metro Township may each be referred to herein as
a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties.”

RECITALS:

A. The County and the Metro Township are “public agencies” as defined by the Utah
Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. §§ 11-13-101 e¢ seq. (the “Interlocal Act”), and, as
such, are authorized by the Interlocal Act to enter into this Agreement to act jointly and
cooperatively in a manner that will enable them to make the most efficient use of their resources
and powers. Additionally, Section 11-13-215 of the Interlocal Act authorizes a county, city,
metro township, town, or other local political subdivision to share its tax and other revenues with
other counties, cities, towns, local political subdivisions, or the state.

B. During the 2019 General Session, the State Legislature enacted Senate Bill 268,
which included an appropriation of $500,000 for new road construction at approximately 2650
South from 7200 West to 8000 West in Magna Township, found at Utah Code Ann. § 72-2-
121(4)(m)(xi).

C. The County desires to use the County Transportation Funds to further regional
transportation by funding the costs of transportation projects throughout the County in
accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 72-2-121 and all other applicable federal, state and local
laws, rules and regulations.

D. The County and the Metro Township now desire to enter into this Agreement
providing for the transfer of up to $500,000 of County Transportation Funds to the Metro
Township to reimburse the Metro Township for certain costs incurred by the Metro Township to
complete the transportation projects described in the Project Descriptions attached hereto as
Exhibit A (the “Projects”), so long as such costs are consistent with the allowable uses for
County Transportation Funds described in the Utah Code.

Page 1 of 21

AGREEMENT:

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual representations, warranties,
covenants and agreements contained herein, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged,
the Parties represent and agree as follows:

| ARTICLE 1 - INCORPORATION AND DEFINITIONS

1.1. Incorporation and Definitions. The foregoing recitals and all exhibits hereto are
hereby made a part of this Agreement. Unless otherwise defined in this Agreement, terms shall
have the meaning set forth in the Transportation Code. The following terms shall have the
following meanings in this Agreement:

(a) Certificate of Grant Recipient: The Certificate of Grant Recipient attached
hereto as Exhibit B.

(b) County Transportation Funds: As defined in the Recitals above.

(c) Event of Default: As defined in Section 6.1 below.

(d) Event of Force Majeure: As defined in Section 7.4 below.

(e) | Maximum Reimbursable Amount: The amount specified for each Project
in the Project Descriptions attached hereto as Exhibit A.

(f) Project: A transportation project described in the Project Description.

(g) Projects: The transportation projects described in the Project Description.

(h) — Project Descriptions: The project descriptions attached hereto as Exhibit
A.

(i) Project Element. A discrete portion of a Project.

(j) Reimbursable Project Costs: Costs incurred by the Metro Township
during the Reimbursement Term for each Project, so long as such costs are consistent
with the allowable uses for County Transportation Funds described in the Utah Code and
in accordance with the Certificate of Grant Recipient.

(k) | Reimbursement Term: The period of time commencing with the effective
date of this Agreement and expiring upon the earlier of (i) the date the Metro Township
has been disbursed, in aggregate, the Maximum Reimbursable Amount for each Project,
(ii) the date this Agreement is terminated, or (iii) June 30, 2025, which date may be
extended by the County, in its sole discretion, but only in writing, upon receipt of a
written request from the Metro Township setting forth the Metro Township’s justification
for such an extension.

qd) Request for Disbursement: A statement from the Metro Township, in the

Page 2 of 21

form attached hereto as Exhibit C, requesting an amount of Transportation Funds to be
disbursed to the Metro Township for reimbursement of Reimbursable Project Costs.
(m) Transportation Code: Utah Code Ann. §§ 72-1-101 et seq.
(n) Transportation Funds: As defined in Section 2.1 below.

1.2. Interpretation of Action That May be Taken by the County. Whenever in this
Agreement an action may be taken or not taken by the County, in its sole discretion, this shall
mean that the action may be taken or not taken by the Mayor of the County, or his/her official
designee (or the Director of the Department of Regional Planning, Housing and Economic
Development, if such duty is so delegated to him/her by the Mayor of the County), in his/her sole
discretion.

ARTICLE 2 - DISBURSEMENT OF COUNTY TRANSPORTATION FUNDS

2.1. County Transportation Funds. During the Reimbursement Term, the County shall
disburse County Transportation Funds (hereinafter “Transportation Funds”) to the Metro
Township to reimburse the Metro Township for Reimbursable Project Costs, up to the Maximum
Reimbursable Amount for each Project, all on the terms and subject to the conditions of this
Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, unless otherwise agreed to in writing, the County will
not disburse more than the Maximum Reimbursable Amount to the Metro Township for any one
Project, even if the Metro Township seeks or is disbursed less than the Maximum Reimbursable
Amount for any other Project.

2.2. Annual Status Update. Until each Project has been completed and Transportation
Funds have been fully disbursed to the Metro Township, the Metro Township shall, on an annual
basis, update the County on the status of (a) each Project and (b) the anticipated timing and
amount of future Request for Disbursement submittals. This annual update shall be submitted to
the County in writing (via letter or email) on or before June 30" each year.

2.3. Execution of Certificate of Grant Recipient. Concurrent with the execution of this
Agreement, the Metro Township shall execute the Certificate of Grant Recipient attached hereto
as Exhibit B.

ARTICLE 3 — REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

3.1. | Metro Township’s Representations and Warranties. The Metro Township hereby
represents, covenants, and warrants to the County as follows:

(a) Use of County Transportation Funds. Any Transportation Funds
disbursed to the Metro Township by the County under this Agreement will be used by the

Metro Township: (1) solely to reimburse the Metro Township for costs actually incurred

by the Metro Township for each Project during the Reimbursement Term, so long as such

costs are consistent with the allowable uses for County Transportation Funds described in
the Utah Code; and (2) in accordance with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws, rules and regulations.

Page 3 of 21

(b) No Default. No default or Event of Default has occurred and is
continuing, and no event has occurred and is continuing which with the lapse of time or
the giving of notice, or both, would constitute a default or an Event of Default in any

| material respect on the part of the Metro Township under this Agreement.

(c) Information. To the best of the Metro Township’s knowledge, any
information furnished to the County by the Metro Township under this Agreement or in
connection with the matters covered in this Agreement are true and correct and do not
contain any untrue statement of any material fact and do not omit any material fact.

(d) Relationship of County and Metro Township. The County is not acting as
a lender to the Metro Township. The County has no fiduciary or other special
relationship with the Metro Township and therefore no fiduciary obligations are created
by this Agreement or are owed to the Metro Township or any third parties.

(e) Effect of Request for Disbursement. Each Request for Disbursement shall
constitute a representation and warranty that the information set forth in such Request for
Disbursement is true and correct.

3.2. Metro Township’s Additional Representations — Liability and Reliance.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the Metro Township further
represents that the County has not opined on and will not at any point be deemed to have opined
on whether any particular Reimbursable Project Cost for which a disbursement of Transportation
Funds is made to the Metro Township under this Agreement is consistent with the allowable uses
for County Transportation Funds described in the Utah Code or in accordance with other
applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. As such, notwithstanding anything
to the contrary in this Agreement, the Metro Township agrees to be liable for and indemnify the
County from any improper use of the Transportation Funds, as indicated in Section 5.1 below.
Furthermore, the Metro Township agrees that it will independently determine whether any
particular Reimbursable Project Cost for which a disbursement of Transportation Funds is sought
by and made to the Metro Township under this Agreement is consistent with the allowable uses
for County Transportation Funds described in the Utah Code, and, as indicated in Section 4.2(e)
below, the Metro Township agrees that it will not rely on the County’s review or acceptance of
any Request for Disbursement, Project Descriptions, or any other information submitted to the
County by the Metro Township, in making that determination.

ARTICLE 4 — DISBURSEMENTS

4.1. Conditions for Each Disbursement of Transportation Funds. The County will not
be obligated to disburse Transportation Funds to the Metro Township to cover Reimbursable
Project Costs for each Project unless and until the following conditions have been satisfied:

(a) Documents to be Furnished for Each Disbursement. For each Project, the
Metro Township has furnished to the County, for each and every disbursement:

(1) a Request for Disbursement; and
Page 4 of 21

(2) invoices and proof of payment for any Reimbursable Project Cost
incurred by the Metro Township for which the Metro Township is seeking
reimbursement from the County pursuant to the Request for Disbursement.

(b) Completion of Project Element. The Metro Township has completed or
caused to be completed the Project Element or Elements to which the Request for
Disbursement relates and for which Reimbursable Project Costs were incurred by the
Metro Township.

(c) Reimbursable Project Costs Paid by the Metro Township. The
Reimbursable Project Costs included in the Request for Disbursement have actually been
paid by the Metro Township.

(d) No Event of Default. No Event of Default has occurred and is continuing
beyond any applicable cure period.

(e) Warranties and Representations True. All warranties and representations
made by the Metro Township in this Agreement have remained true and correct and all
warranties and representations made by the Metro Township in the Request for
Disbursement are true and correct.

4.2. Disbursements.

(a) In General. For any and all desired disbursements of Transportation
Funds, the Metro Township shall submit a Request for Disbursement directly to the
County. The Metro Township agrees to respond in a timely manner to any reasonable
requests made by the County for additional information relating to any Request for
Disbursement. In the event that the County declines to make the full disbursement
requested in any Request for Disbursement for failure to comply with the terms of this
Agreement, the County shall notify the Metro Township promptly and shall provide a
written explanation of the specific reasons for such decision. The Metro Township shall
submit a Request for Disbursement to the County no more frequently than once every
thirty (30) days.

(b) Amount of Disbursement. Subject to compliance with the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, the County shall disburse to the Metro Township the
amount of Transportation Funds requested by the Metro Township in a Request for
Disbursement for Reimbursable Project Costs, but in no event shall the County be
required to disburse more than the Maximum Reimbursable Amount, in aggregate, for
each Project over the Reimbursement Term. However, if the County determines that the
Metro Township has not complied with all terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement or determines that the Metro Township’s Request for Disbursement is
deficient in any respect, the County may, in its sole discretion, decline to make a
disbursement, or may make a partial disbursement based on the extent to which the Metro
Township has complied with the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the County will not reimburse the Metro Township for

Page § of 21

Reimbursable Project Costs to the extent such costs have been funded with non-Metro
Township funds (e.g., other federal, state, or local grant funds).

(c) Payment of Disbursements. The County shall, within ninety (90) days
after receiving a Request for Disbursement from the Metro Township, either disburse to
the Metro Township the amount requested by the Metro Township or provide a written
notice to the Metro Township setting forth the reasons for non-disbursement or partial-
disbursement. The County shall have no obligation to accept a Request for Disbursement
or to make a disbursement of Transportation Funds to the Metro Township after
expiration of the Reimbursement Term. Additionally, following expiration of the
Reimbursement Term, the County may, in its sole discretion, reallocate any remaining
and undisbursed Transportation Funds (for which a Request for Disbursement has not
been submitted and is not pending) toward other projects within Salt Lake County.

(d) | Acquiescence Not a Waiver. To the extent that the County may have
acquiesced in noncompliance with any conditions precedent to the disbursement of
Transportation Funds, such acquiescence shall not constitute a waiver by the County and
the County at any time after such acquiescence may require the Metro Township, as to
future requests for disbursements, to comply with all such applicable conditions and
requirements under this Agreement.

(e) Disclaimer of Liability.

(1) The County will not be responsible in any manner to the Metro
Township or any third-party for the quality, design, construction, structural
integrity, or health or safety features of any Project for which Transportation
Funds are disbursed to the Metro Township to reimburse Reimbursable Project
Costs, notwithstanding the County’s review and approval of the Metro
Township’s Requests for Disbursement or any other information submitted to the
County under this Agreement.

(2) Furthermore, the Metro Township acknowledges and agrees that
the County’s review and approval of the Metro Township’s Request for
Disbursement or any other information submitted to the County under this
Agreement will not be deemed to be a review by the County as to whether any
particular Reimbursable Project Cost for which a disbursement of Transportation
Funds is sought by and made to the Metro Township under this Agreement is
consistent with the allowable uses for County Transportation Funds described in :
the Utah Code or in accordance with other applicable federal, state and local laws,
rules and regulations. As such, the Metro Township agrees to be liable for and to
indemnify the County from any improper use of the Transportation Funds, as
indicated in Section 5.1 below.

ARTICLE 5 — COVENANTS AND AGREEMENTS
5.1. Indemnification and Liability.
Page 6 of 21

(a) Liability. Both Parties are governmental entities under the Governmental

Immunity Act of Utah, Utah Code Ann. §§ 63G-7-101 ef seq. (the “Immunity

Act”). Neither Party waives any defenses or limits of liability available under the

Immunity Act and other applicable law. Both Parties maintain all privileges, immunities,

and other rights granted by the Immunity Act and all other applicable law.

(b) Indemnification. The Metro Township agrees to indemnify, hold
harmless, and defend the County, its officers, agents, and employees from and against
any and all actual or threatened claims, losses, damages, injuries, debts, and liabilities of,
to, or by third Parties, including demands for repayment or penalties, however allegedly
caused, resulting directly or indirectly from, or arising out of (i) the Metro Township’s
breach of this Agreement; (ii) any acts or omissions of or by the Metro Township, its
agents, representatives, officers, employees, or subcontractors in connection with the
performance of this Agreement; (iii) any improper use of the Transportation Funds; or
(iv) the Metro Township’s breach of the Certificate of Grant Recipient attached hereto as
Exhibit B. The Metro Township agrees that its duty to defend and indemnify the County
under this Agreement includes all attorney’s fees, litigation and court costs, expert
witness fees, and any sums expended by or assessed against the County for the defense of
any claim or to satisfy any settlement, arbitration award, debt, penalty, or verdict paid
or incurred on behalf of the County. The Metro Township further agrees that the Metro
Township’s indemnification obligations in this Section 5.1 will survive the expiration or
termination of this Agreement.

5.2. Recordkeeping. The Metro Township agrees to maintain its books and records in
such a way that any Transportation Funds received from the County will be shown separately on
the Metro Township’s books. The Metro Township shall maintain records adequate to identify
the use of the Transportation Funds for the purposes specified in this Agreement. Upon request
of the County, the Metro Township shall make its books and records related to the
Transportation Funds available to the County at reasonable times.

5.3. Assignment and Transfer of Transportation Funds. The Metro Township shall not
assign or transfer its obligations under this Agreement nor its rights to the Transportation Funds
under this Agreement without prior written consent from the County. The Metro Township shall
use the Transportation Funds provided pursuant to this Agreement exclusively and solely for the
purposes set forth in the Agreement.

ARTICLE 6 —DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES

6.1. Metro Township Event of Default. The occurrence of any one or more of the
following shall constitute an “Event of Default” as such term is used herein:

(a) _‘ Failure of the Metro Township to comply with any of the material terms,
conditions, covenants, or provisions of this Agreement that is not fully cured by the

Metro Township on or before the expiration of a sixty (60) day period (or, if the County

approves in writing, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or

delayed, such longer period as may be reasonably required to cure a matter which, due to
its nature, cannot reasonably be cured within 60 days) commencing upon the County’s
Page 7 of 21

written notice to the Metro Township of the occurrence thereof.

6.2. County’s Remedies in the Event of Default. Upon the occurrence of any Event
of Default, the County may, in its sole discretion, and in addition to all other remedies conferred
upon the County by law or equity or other provisions of this Agreement, pursue any one or more
of the following remedies concurrently or successively, it being the intent hereof that none of

| such remedies shall be to the exclusion of any other:

(a) Withhold further disbursement of Transportation Funds to the Metro
Township; and/or

(b) Reduce the amount of any future disbursement of Transportation Funds to
the Metro Township by the amount incurred by the County to cure such default; and/or

(c) Terminate this Agreement.

ARTICLE 7 — MISCELLANEOUS

7.1. Interlocal Cooperation Act. In satisfaction of the requirements of the Interlocal
Act in connection with this Agreement, the Parties agree as follows:

(a) This Agreement shall be approved by each Party pursuant to Section 1 1-
13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act.

(b) This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance with
applicable law by a duly authorized attorney in behalf of each Party pursuant to and in
accordance with Section 1 1-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act.

(c) A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall be filed
immediately with the keeper of records of each Party pursuant to Section 1 1-13-209 of
the Interlocal Act.

(d) Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each Party shall be
responsible for its own costs of any action done pursuant to this Agreement, and for any
financing of such costs.

(e) No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement.
Pursuant to Section 1 1-13-207 of the Interlocal Act, to the extent this Agreement requires
administration other than as set forth herein, the County Mayor and the Metro Township
Mayor are hereby designated as the joint administrative board for all purposes of the
Interlocal Act.

7.2. Term of Agreement. This Agreement shall take effect immediately upon the
completion of the following: (a) the approval of the Agreement by the governing bodies of the
County and the Metro Township, including the adoption of any necessary resolutions or
ordinances by the County and the Metro Township authorizing the execution of this Agreement
by the appropriate person or persons for the County and the Metro Township, respectively, (b)

Page 8 of 21

the execution of this Agreement by a duly authorized official of each of the Parties, (c) the
submission of this Agreement to an attorney for each Party that is authorized to represent said
Party for review as to proper form and compliance with applicable law, pursuant to Section 11-
13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act, and the approval of each respective attorney, and (d) the filing of
a copy of this Agreement with the keeper of records of each Party. This Agreement shall
terminate upon expiration of the Reimbursement Term. If upon expiration of the Reimbursement
Term, the County has not disbursed to the Metro Township the Maximum Reimbursable
Amount, then all such undisbursed Transportation Funds may be used by the County as the
County deems appropriate.

7.3. Non-Funding Clause.

(a) The County has requested or intends to request an appropriation of
Transportation Funds to be paid to the Metro Township for the purposes set forth in this
Agreement. If Transportation Funds are not appropriated and made available beyond
December 31 of the county fiscal year in which this Agreement becomes effective, the
County’s obligation to contribute Transportation Funds to the Metro Township under this
Agreement beyond that date will be null and void. This Agreement places no obligation
on the County to Contribute Transportation Funds to the Metro Township in succeeding
fiscal years. The County’s obligation to contribute Transportation Funds to the Metro
Township under this Agreement will terminate and become null and void on the last day
of the county fiscal year for which funds were budgeted and appropriated, except as to
those portions of payments agreed upon for which funds are budgeted and appropriated.
The Parties agree that such termination of the County’s obligation under this Paragraph
will not be construed as a breach of this Agreement or as an event of default under this
Agreement, and that such termination of the County’s obligation under this Paragraph
will be without penalty and that no right of action for damages or other relief will accrue
to the benefit of the Metro Township, its successors, or its assigns as to this Agreement,
or any portion thereof, which may terminate and become null and void.

(b) If Transportation Funds are not appropriated and made available to fund
performance by the County under this Agreement, the County shall promptly notify the
Metro Township of such non-funding and the termination of this Agreement. However,
in no event, shall the County notify the Metro Township of such non-funding later than
thirty (30) days following the expiration of the county fiscal year for which
Transportation Funds were last appropriated for contribution to the Metro Township
under this Agreement.

7.4. Force Majeure. Neither Party will be considered in breach of this Agreement to
the extent that performance of their respective obligations is prevented by an Event of Force
Majeure that arises after this Agreement becomes effective. “Event of Force Majeure” means an
event beyond the control of the County or the Metro Township that prevents a Party from
complying with any of its obligations under this Agreement, including but not limited to: (i) an
act of God (such as, but not limited to, fires, explosions, earthquakes, drought, tidal waves and
floods); (ii) war, acts or threats of terrorism, invasion, or embargo; or (iii) riots or strikes. If an
Event of Force Majeure persists for a period in excess of sixty (60) days, the County may

Page 9 of 21

terminate this Agreement without liability or penalty, effective upon written notice to the Metro
Township.
7.5. Notices. Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be deemed
sufficient if given by a communication in writing, and shall be deemed to have been received (a)
upon personal delivery or actual receipt thereof, or (b) within three days after such notice is
deposited in the United States mail, postage pre-paid, and certified and addressed as follows:
If to Salt Lake County: Department of Regional Development
2001 South State, S2-100
Salt Lake City, Utah 84114

With a copy to: Salt Lake County District Attorney
35 East 500 South
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111

If to the Metro Township: | Magna Metro Township
8952 West Magna Main Street
Magna, Utah 84044

7.6. Ethical Standards. The Metro Township represents that it has not: (a) provided an
illegal gift in connection with this Agreement to any County officer or employee, or former
County officer or employee, or to any relative or business entity of a County officer or employee,
or relative or business entity of a former County officer or employee; (b) retained any person to
solicit or secure this Agreement upon an agreement or understanding for a commission,
percentage, brokerage or contingent fee, other than bona fide employees of bona fide commercial
agencies established for the purpose of securing business; (c) breached any of the ethical
standards in connection with this Agreement set forth in State statute or Salt Lake County Code
of Ordinances § 2.07; or (d) knowingly influenced, and hereby promises that it will not
knowingly influence, in connection with this Agreement, any County officer or employee or
former County officer or employee to breach any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute
or Salt Lake County Ordinances.

7.7. Entire Agreement. This Agreement and the documents referenced herein, if any,
constitute the entire Agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and
no statements, promises, or inducements made by either Party, or agents for either Party, that are
not contained in this written Agreement shall be binding or valid; and this Agreement may not be
enlarged, modified or altered, except in writing, signed by the Parties. ;

7.8. Amendment. This Agreement may be amended, changed, modified or altered
only by an instrument in writing signed by both Parties.

7.9. Governing Law and Venue. The laws of the State of Utah govern all matters
arising out of this Agreement. Venue for any and all legal actions arising hereunder will lie in
the District Court in and for the County of Salt Lake, State of Utah.

Page 10 of 21

7.10. No Obligations to Third Parties. The Parties agree that the Metro Township’s
obligations under this Agreement are solely to the County and that the County’s obligations
under this Agreement are solely to the Metro Township. The Parties do not intend to confer any
rights to third parties unless otherwise expressly provided for under this Agreement.

7.11. Agency. No officer, employee, or agent of the Metro Township or the County is
intended to be an officer, employee, or agent of the other Party. None of the benefits provided
by each Party to its employees including, but not limited to, workers’ compensation insurance,
health insurance and unemployment insurance, are available to the officers, employees, or agents
of the other Party. The Metro Township and the County will each be solely and entirely
responsible for its acts and for the acts of its officers, employees, or agents during the
performance of this Agreement.

7.12. No Waiver. The failure of either Party at any time to require performance of any
provision or to resort to any remedy provided under this Agreement will in no way affect the
right of that Party to require performance or to resort to a remedy at any time thereafter.
Additionally, the waiver of any breach of this Agreement by either Party will not constitute a
waiver as to any future breach.

7.13. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is found to be illegal or
unenforceable in a judicial proceeding, such provision will be deemed inoperative and severable,
and, provided that the fundamental terms and conditions of this Agreement remain legal and
enforceable, the remainder of this Agreement shall remain operative and binding on the Parties.

7.14. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts and all so
executed will constitute one agreement binding on all the Parties, it being understood that all
Parties need not sign the same counterpart. Further, executed copies of this Agreement delivered
by facsimile or email will be deemed an original signed copy of this Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Party hereby signs this Agreement on the date written
by each Party on the signature pages attached hereto.

[Intentionally Left Blank - Signature Page Follows]
Page 11 of 21

| INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT - SIGNATURE PAGE FOR THE COUNTY
| SALT LAKE C Y
By
Mayor Jennifer Wilson or Designee
fr
Dated: oh Kine 2, 20! 4
Approved by:
DEPARTMENT OF REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
By feuds Semineabiors
Wil€Sommerkorn
Director of Regional Planning and Transportation
Dated: July 3 2019
Approved as to Form and Legality:
Digitally signed
Jason by Jason Rose
Date: 2019.07.02
Rose 11:34:58 -06'00'
Page 12 of 21

INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT — SIGNATURE PAGE FOR METRO TOWNSHIP
|
MAGNA METRO TOWNS
By ant 6f/|
Name: ‘
Title: / / A Me Cf
Dated: Ad tks Ze ,20/ a
Attest:
__——CSSCys. Metro Townsship Recorder
Date signed:
Approved as to Form and Legality:
METRO TOWNSHIP ORNEY
By
Name; 7a BA ifs n
Dated: 7/0 ,20 14
Page 13 of 21

EXHIBIT - A
EXHIBIT A
Project Description
Page 14 of 21

PROJECT DESCRIPTIONS
for
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
1) Project Title: Magna Township New Road Construction
Project Description: New Road Construction at approximately 2650 South
between 7200 West to 8000 West

Maximum Reimbursable $500,000

Amount:

*see Utah Code Ann. § 72-2-121(4)(m)(xi)
Page 15 of 21

|
|
EXHIBIT B
Certificate of Grant Recipient
Page 16 of 21

CERTIFICATE OF RECIPIENT
| Under the terms of Utah Code Ann. § 72-1-121(4)(m)(xi) and the Interlocal Cooperation
| Agreement (the “Agreement’’) between the County and Magna Metro Township (the “Recipient’)
(DA Log No. 19-13949), the County has committed to provide up to Five Hundred Thousand
Dollars and No Cents ($500,000.00) of the Transportation Funds to the Recipient to reimburse the
Recipient for certain costs incurred by the Recipient to complete the transportation project
described in the Agreement (the “Project” or “Projects”). The undersigned officer or agent of the
Recipient hereby certifies that all applicable requirements have been met for distribution of the
Transportation Funds and that the Transportation Funds will be used solely for the Project or
Projects.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Magna Metro Township, Utah has caused this certificate to be
executed as of the day and year first above written.
RECIPI /
By: t1t “Zt. c-
aw
Its:
Date: L8- 2 7)- YN f
Page 17 of 21

}
EXHIBIT C
Request for Disbursement Form
Page 18 of 21

REQUEST FOR DISBURSEMENT
To: Salt Lake County
Re: Magna Metro Township — Interlocal Agreement for Transportation Funds (DA Log No.
19-13949)

| Terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (the “Agreement”) between Salt Lake County (the “County”)
and Magna Metro Township (the “Metro Township”) (DA Log No. 19-13949). In connection
with said Agreement, the undersigned hereby states and certifies that:

1, Each item listed on Schedule 1 attached hereto is a Reimbursable Project Cost
and was incurred in connection with the Project to which this Request for Disbursement relates.

2. These Reimbursable Project Costs have been paid by the Metro Township and are
reimbursable under the Agreement.

3. Each item listed on Schedule 1 has not previously been paid or reimbursed from
money obtained from the County.

4. Invoices and proof of payment for each item listed on Schedule 1 is attached
hereto.

5. There has not been filed with or served upon the Metro Township any notice of
any lien, right of lien or attachment upon or claim affecting the right of any person, firm, or
corporation to receive payment of the amounts stated in this request, except to the extent any
such lien is being contested in good faith.

6. All work for which reimbursement is requested has been performed in a good and
workmanlike manner and in accordance with the Agreement.

7. The Metro Township is not in default or breach of any term or condition of the
Agreement, and no event has occurred and no condition exists which constitutes an Event of

Default under the Agreement.

8. All of the Metro Township’s representations set forth in the Agreement remain
true and correct as of the date hereof.

9. The Metro Township acknowledges and agrees that the County’s review and
approval of this Request for Disbursement will not be deemed to be a review by the County as to
whether any particular Reimbursable Project Cost for which a disbursement of Transportation ‘
Funds is sought hereunder is consistent with the allowable uses for County Transportation Funds

Page 19 of 21

EXHIBIT -A
| described in the Utah Code or in accordance with other applicable federal, state and local laws,
tules and regulations. As such, the Metro Township agrees to be liable for and to indemnify the
County from any improper use of the Transportation Funds, as indicated in Section 5.1 of the
| Agreement.
Dated this Bing of AAs WAT > 20off
MAGNA METRO TO
Name: l
Title: / / 5 Vaz 7
Approved for Payment this —s_ day of ,20_.
SALT LAKE COUNTY
By:
Name:
Title:
Page 20 of 21

SCHEDULE 1
Reimbursable Project Costs (RPC) Request for Disbursement
Project Title:
Reimbursable Project Costs Request Detail:
Vendor Name Date of Date Paidby Reimbursable Project Requested
Service Metro Cost Description Amount
Township
Total RPC Request §$
This portion above is to be filled out by the Metro Township.
This portion below is to be filled out by the County.
RPC Approved — This Request
(plus) RPC Approved/Paid to Date ee
Total Approved/Paid to Date Cs
Maximum Reimbursable Amount
(less) Total Approved/Paid to Date eee
Remaining Transportation Funds ee
Approving Signature by County
Page 21 of 21
