MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO.: 20-06-05 DATE: June 23, 2020
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
APPROVING AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN MAGNA AND RIO TINTO
KENNECOTT FOR THE 2600 SOUTH PROJECT
RECITALS

A. The Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) is a municipality pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated (““UCA”) §§ 10-2a-401 et seq.

B. The Magna Metro Township Council (the “Council”) is the municipal governing body
for Magna pursuant to UCA § 10-3b-501.

C. Kennecott Utah Copper LLC (“Kennecott”) is a company that owns certain property
along 2600 South Street (the “Project Area” or “Project’’).

D. Magna desires to acquire a portion of Kennecott’s property in the project area to
widen, install curb, gutter, and a storm drain system for the benefit of Magna and the
residents of the municipality.

E. Kennecott has agreed to transfer the needed property in exchange for the agreement
attached hereto (Exhibit A).

F. The agreement allows Magna to complete the Project.

RESOLUTION
1

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Magna Metro Township, the Mayor and
Council hereby approves the attached agreement, hereinafter known as Exhibit A (with
its related attachments), between Magna and Kennecott Utah Copper LLC to facilitate the
construction of infrastructure improvements in and along 2600 South; and authorizes the
Mayor to sign the agreement on behalf of the Municipality.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the Magna Metro Township, Salt Lake County,
Utah this ae day of __( Pre , 2020.

FOR THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP:
LO (fig
DAN W. PEAY, MAY

ATTEST
Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder

PAUL H. AS N

METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
VOTING :
Council Member Hull voting G, VE Yu
Mayor Peay voting 4 Ve A
Council Member Peel voting of V a id
Council Member Pierce voting “A 4 V, E
Council Member Prokopis voting Uf TA

2

LAND EXCHANGE AGREEMENT

THIS LAND EXCHANGE AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) is entered into to be effective
as of the day of June, 2020 (“Effective Date”), by and between Kennecott Utah Copper LLC,
a Utah limited liability company (“Kennecott”), and Magna Metro Township, a body corporate
and politic of the State of Utah (“Magna”) (Magna and Kennecott are individually referred to
herein sometimes as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties”), with respect to the following:

A. Kennecott owns strip of land in Salt Lake County, Utah located at approximately
2600 South between 8970 West to 9180 West as generally depicted in red on Exhibit A attached
hereto (“Kennecott Parcel”).

B. Magna desires to acquire the Kennecott Parcel to construct and/or reconstruct the
roadway and to install curb, gutter, and stormwater and flood control improvements.

C. Magna owns certain real property in Salt Lake County, Utah, generally depicted in
red on Exhibit B attached hereto (collectively, the “Magna Parcels”) consisting of undeveloped
road sections for Tempo Road, Redondo Avenue, undeveloped alley sections, and public utility
easements which undeveloped property is located along 8000 West between approximately 1900
South to 2000 South within the Progress Subdivision pursuant to that certain plat recorded with the
Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office on October 19, 1916, as Entry No. 367691, in Book G of Plats,
at Page 75 (the “Subdivision”), which Subdivision has never been developed. The Kennecott
Parcel and the Magna Parcels are individually referred to herein sometimes as a “Parcel” and
collectively as the “Parcels.”

D. Magna desires pursuant to an exchange of lands to (1) acquire from Kennecott the
Kennecott Parcel, and (2) convey to Kennecott the Magna Parcels pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement.

E. Kennecott desires pursuant to an exchange of lands to (1) acquire from Magna the
Magna Parcels, and (2) convey to Magna the Kennecott Parcel pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement.

NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants, obligations and agreements
contained herein, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereby
agree as follows:

1. Agreement to Exchange. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions and
contingencies set forth herein, Kennecott hereby agrees to acquire from Magna and Magna agrees
to sell and convey to Kennecott, the Magna Parcels. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions
and contingencies set forth herein, Magna hereby agrees to acquire from Kennecott and Kennecott
agrees to sell and convey to Magna, the Kennecott Parcel. The contemplated conveyances shall not
include any conveyance or grant of any water, water rights, or stock in water companies.

2. Vacation of Subdivision Plat. Within ten (10) days of the Effective Date, Magna, at
its sole cost and expense, shall take all necessary actions, including, but not limited to holding any
required public hearings, enacting all appropriate ordinances, and executing all required documents
to vacate, release, terminate, and extinguish the Subdivision plat and all roads, alleys, ways and

1
4811-4199-2127v2

public utility easements within the Subdivision (“Subdivision Vacation”). Magna shall vacate,
surplus, and transfer the ownership of the Magna Parcels to Kennecott in full compliance with all
applicable laws, regulations, and ordinances. Without limiting the foregoing, pursuant to Utah
Code Ann. § 10-9a-208, Magna shall commence the public process to vacate and, if approved,
Magna shall record, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-609(3), the ordinance adopted by the
legislative body of Magna Metro Township (the “Vacation Ordinance”). Notwithstanding
anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the Subdivision Vacation shall be complete only when
the Vacation Ordinance is recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office and the Vacation
Ordinance is final and non-appealable.
3. Appraisal of Kennecott Parcel.

(a) If Magna is unable by June 30, 2021 to complete the Subdivision Vacation
and deliver to Kennecott good and marketable title to the Magna Parcels, Magna agrees to pay
Kennecott an amount equal to the Fair Market Value (defined below) of the Kennecott Parcel. The
Parties shall work together in good faith to jointly select an appraiser, who shall be a qualified and
impartial person licensed in the State of Utah as a MAI appraiser with at least ten (10) years of
experience in appraising industrial and commercial properties located in Salt Lake County, Utah
(a “Qualified Appraiser”). No later than the fifteenth (15) day after the selection, the Qualified
Appraiser shall in good faith make its own determination of the Fair Market Value of the Kennecott
Parcel as of the Effective Date. Such determination of Fair Market Value shall be final, conclusive,
and binding on the Parties. All fees and expenses of the Qualified Appraiser shall be shared equally
by the Parties. The term “Fair Market Value” means the price at which a parcel could be sold by
a willing seller to a willing buyer, at arms-length, after due consideration of all the elements
reasonably affecting value, taking into account the current use, physical condition and existing
zoning and land use restrictions affecting the subject property.

(b) In the event the Parties are unable to jointly select a Qualified Appraiser
within ten (10) days of Kennecott’s request, Kennecott and Magna shall each select its own
Qualified Appraiser within fifteen (15) days, and Kennecott’s Qualified Appraiser and Magna’s
Qualified Appraiser shall jointly select a third Qualified Appraiser within twenty (20) days of the
date of the Effective Date (the “Independent Qualified Appraiser”), which Independent
Qualified Appraiser shall be independent of, and not affiliated with, Kennecott’s Qualified
Appraiser or Magna’s Qualified Appraiser, and shall not be affiliated with Kennecott or Magna.
No later than the thirtieth (30) day after the selection of the Independent Qualified Appraiser,
each of Kennecott’s Qualified Appraiser, Magna’s Qualified Appraiser and the Independent
Qualified Appraiser shall deliver an appraisal of the Kennecott Parcel. The average of the two (2)
closest appraisal values shall be deemed the Fair Market Value as of the date of the Effective Date.
The Fair Market Value determined in accordance with this Section 3(b) shall be in writing and
counterparts thereof shall be delivered to Kennecott and Magna. Such determination of Fair
Market Value shall be final, conclusive, and binding on the Parties. Kennecott and Magna shall
be responsible for the respective fees and expenses of their selected Qualified Appraiser, and the
fees and expenses of the Independent Qualified Appraiser shall be the shared equally by the Parties.

4. Closing. The closing of the exchange of the Parcels (the “Closing”’) shal! occur in
two stages on such dates as are mutually acceptable to the Parties. The first stage of the Closing
shall occur within thirty (30) days of the Effective Date, whereupon Kennecott shall convey the

2
4811-4199-2127v2

Kennecott Parcel to Magna by a quit claim deed (the “Kennecott Parcel Deed”), the form of which
is attached hereto as Exhibit D. The second stage of the Closing shall occur within ten (10) days
after the later to occur of (a) completion of the Subdivision Vacation in accordance with Section 3
whereupon Magna shall convey the Magna Parcels to Kennecott by a quit claim deed (the “Magna
Parcels Deed”), the form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit C; or (b) the determination of Fair
Market Value in accordance with Section 3, whereupon Magna shall pay to Kennecott an amount
equal to the Fair Market Value of the Kennecott Parcel. Closing shall occur in the offices of
Kennecott or Magna, or at such other place as may be reasonably designated by the Parties. Until
each stage of the Closing occurs, the risk of loss to a Parcel shall be borne solely by the Party
owning such Parcel. In addition to the deeds and other instruments contemplated to be delivered at
each stage of the Closing pursuant to this Agreement, the Parties shall each also execute and deliver
such documents as are usual, customary and/or necessary for commercial real estate closings.

5. Prorations; Costs. Real property taxes and assessments relating to the Parcels shall
be prorated as of Closing. The Grantor Party shall be responsible for and shall promptly pay all
charges with respect to its Parcel(s) attributable to the period up to and including Closing. Each of
the Parties shall pay its own fees and expenses in connection with this Agreement including, without
limitation, its own attorneys’ fees, diligence costs, recording fees, and title insurance premiums or
costs of endorsements desired by the Party, if any.

6. “As Is” Exchange.

(a) EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT AND THE DEED,
THE GRANTEE PARTY IS NOT RELYING, AND HAS NOT RELIED, ON ANY
REPRESENTATION, GUARANTEE, WARRANTY OR ACTION OF THE GRANTOR
PARTY RELATING TO THE PROPERTY BEING CONVEYED TO THE GRANTEE PARTY,
AS APPLICABLE (HEREINAFTER, THE “CONVEYED PROPERTY”), AND THAT THE
GRANTEE PARTY IS TAKING THE CONVEYED PROPERTY BASED UPON THE
GRANTEE PARTY’S OWN INVESTIGATION, INSPECTION, KNOWLEDGE, AND
UNDERSTANDING OF THE CONVEYED PROPERTY. EACH GRANTEE PARTY
ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT HAS HAD ADEQUATE TIME AND OPPORTUNITY TO
INVESTIGATE THE CONVEYED PROPERTY AS IT DEEMED NECESSARY AND/OR
APPROPRIATE.

(b) EACH GRANTEE PARTY HEREBY ACCEPTS THE CONVEYED
PROPERTY “AS IS, WHERE IS, WITH ALL FAULTS”, AND, EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN
THIS AGREEMENT AND THE DEED, WITHOUT REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF
ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ORAL OR WRITTEN, AND EACH GRANTOR PARTY
DOES HEREBY DISCLAIM AND RENOUNCE ANY SUCH REPRESENTATION OR
WARRANTY PREVIOUSLY GIVEN OR OFFERED TO THE GRANTEE PARTY, EXCEPT
TO THE EXTENT SUCH REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY IS EXPRESSLY SET
FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT OR THE DEED. WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY
OF THE FOREGOING, EACH GRANTOR PARTY PROVIDES NO WARRANTIES,
REPRESENTATIONS OR ASSURANCES AS TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITION OF
THE CONVEYED PROPERTY, OR THE CONFORMITY OF THE CONVEYED PROPERTY
WITH ANY APPLICABLE LAWS, ORDINANCES, RULES, OR REGULATIONS.

3

4811-4199-2127v2

Exhibit A

7. Representations and Warranties. Each Grantor Party hereby represents and
warrants, and covenants and agrees with, the Grantee Party as to the following matters (all
representations, warranties and covenants are true on the date hereof and shall be true as of the
Closing and shall survive Closing):

(a) Grantor Party has the requisite power and authority to enter into this
Agreement, and this Agreement is valid and binding upon Grantor Party and enforceable against
Grantor Party in accordance with its terms.

(b) No consent, approval or authorization of, or declaration, filing or
registration with, any third party, including any governmental or regulatory authority, United
States or foreign, is required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance of this
Agreement by Grantor Party.

(c) Neither this Agreement, the Deed, nor any document contemplated by or
entered into in connection with this Agreement, shall constitute a default under any agreement by
which Grantor Party is bound.

(d) To the best of each Grantor Party’s knowledge, there is no litigation,
administrative action or proceeding pending (or to the Grantor Party’s knowledge threatened)
against or relating to the Grantor Party’s Parcel nor does Grantor Party know of any reasonable
grounds or know of any basis for any such action.

8. Covenants. The Grantor Party covenants not take any action, permit or acquiesce in
any action or fail to take any action that will adversely affect the Grantor Party’s Parcel(s), unless
otherwise contemplated by this Agreement. From the Effective Date until the date of Closing, the
Grantor Party agrees not to allow the following without the prior written consent of the Grantee
Party: (a) enter into any transaction with respect to or affecting the real property interests that would
in any way prevent the Grantee Party’s full performance hereunder, or limit or adversely affect the
Grantee Party’s rights as an owner of the property; (b) sell, encumber or grant any interest in the
Grantor Party’s real property rights to the Grantor Party’s Parcel(s) or any part thereof in any form
or manner whatsoever; or (c) enter into, amend, waive any rights under, terminate or extend any
document or instrument affecting the Grantor Party’s real property rights to the Grantor Party’s
Parcel(s).

9. Improvements to 2600 South. Magna covenants agrees, at its cost and expense, to
install and maintain curb, gutter, asphalt, and stormwater and flood control improvements along the
Kennecott property on 2600 South between 8970 and 9180 West. Magna shall complete the
foregoing improvements within one year of the date of the first stage of the Closing.

10. Tax Treatment. The Parties agree that to the extent they can legally do so, the Parties
shall report the transactions contemplated by this Agreement as a like-kind exchange under Section
1031 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and its implementing regulations and shall
not take any position on any tax return that is inconsistent with such reporting position.

11. Default; Remedies. In the event of a default by a Party, the non-defaulting Party
shall give written notice of such default and thereafter the defaulting Party shall have ten (10) days
to cure such default (or such longer period if such is reasonably necessary in order to cure the

4811-4199-2127v2 ‘

default, not to exceed thirty (30) days, provided that such Party commences such cure within the
initial ten (10) day period and thereafter diligently pursues the cure to completion). In the event
that a Party fails to cure its default within the cure period, the non-defaulting Party’s sole remedies
for such default shall be to: (a) waive the effect of such default and proceed to consummate the
exchange transaction; (b) terminate this Agreement; or (c) bring an appropriate action for specific
performance of this Agreement. If specific performance is the remedy selected, no action for
damages shall be brought, either separately or in conjunction with its action for specific
performance. All rights and remedies contained in this Section shall be non-cumulative and
exclusive.

12. Further Assurances. Each Party shall deliver to the other Party such further
documents and instruments as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to consummate the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

13. Notices. All notices, requests, demands or other communications hereunder shall
be in writing and deemed given when delivered personally, when deposited to be sent via a
nationally-recognized overnight courier keeping receipts of delivery, service prepaid or billed to
sender, or on the day said communication is deposited in the U.S. mail, by registered or certified
mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as shown below the signature block:

To Kennecott: Kennecott Utah Copper LLC
Attn: Jeff Stephenson
4700 Daybreak Parkway
South Jordan, UT 84009
Email: Jeff.Stephenson@riotinto.com
with a copy to: Parsons Behle & Latimer
Attn: Kerry L. Owens
201 South Main Street, Suite 1800
Salt Lake City, Utah 84145
E-Mail: kowens@parsonsbehle.com
To Magna: Magna Metro Township
Attn: Greg Schulz
8952 West Main Street
Magna, UT 84044
Email: greg.schulz@magnacity.org
with a copy to: Magna Metro Township
Attn: Paul Ashton
8952 West Main Street
Magna, UT 84044
Emil: PaulAshton@wewid.org
or to such address as either Party may from time to time designate by notice in writing to the other
Party. While notice given by courier service or mail shall be effective when deposited with the
courier service or in the mail, properly addressed and postage paid or shipping charges paid or
5
4811-4199-2127v2

Exhibit A
billed to the sender, all as aforesaid, the period in which a response to such a notice must be given
or taken shall run from the date of receipt by the addressee. Rejection, refusal to accept delivery
or inability to deliver due to changed address of which no notice has been given shall be deemed
receipt by the addressee.

14. | Dates. Whenever the last day for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of
any duty hereunder shall fall upon a Saturday, Sunday or any United States or State holiday, the
Party having such privilege or duty shall have until 5:00 p.m. Mountain Time on the next
succeeding Business Day to exercise such privilege or to discharge such duty.

15. General Provisions.

(a) Assignment. No Party shall assign this Agreement or its interest hereunder
in whole or part without the prior written consent of the other Party which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned.

(b) Time of Essence. Time is of the essence with respect to all dates and
deadlines in this Agreement.

(c) Captions. The paragraph headings or captions appearing in this Agreement
are for convenience only, are not a part of this Agreement, and are not to be considered in
interpreting this Agreement.

(d) No Waiver, The failure of either Party to insist upon the strict performance
of any provision of this Agreement or to exercise any right, power, or remedy consequent upon a
breach thereof shall not constitute a waiver by such Party of any such provision, breach, or
subsequent breach of the same or any other provision.

(e) Brokers’ Commission. Each Party represents and warrants to the other
Party that there are no claims for brokerage commissions or finder’s fees in connection with this
Agreement. Each Party shall indemnify the other Party against all liabilities arising from any such
claim that may be made through the indemnifying Party.

(f) No Third Party Beneficiary. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein,
no term or provision of this Agreement or any Exhibit hereto is intended to be, nor shall any such
term or provision be construed to be, for the benefit of any person, firm, corporation or other entity
not a party hereto (including, without limitation, any broker), and no such other person, firm,
corporation or entity shall have any right or cause of action hereunder.

(g) Entire Agreement. This Agreement supersedes any prior agreements,
negotiations and communications, oral or written, and contains the entire agreement between
Kennecott and Magna as to the subject matter hereof. The exhibits and recitals to this Agreement
are by this reference incorporated herein. All of the covenants, representations, and warranties
contained herein and the agreements concerning the improvements in Section 9 and tax treatment
in Section 10 shall survive the Closing.

(h) Severability. If any provision herein shall be held invalid or unenforceable
by any court of competent jurisdiction or as a result of future legislative action, and if the rights or
6

4811-4199-2127v2

obligations of any Party hereto under this Agreement will not be materially and adversely affected
thereby, (i) such holding or action shall be strictly construed; (ii) such provision shall be fully
severable; (iii) this Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if such provision had never
comprised a part hereof; (iv) the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force
and effect and shall not be affected by the invalid or unenforceable provision or by its severance
from this Agreement; and (v) in lieu of such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision, there shall
be added automatically as a part of this Agreement a legal, valid and enforceable provision as
similar in terms to such illegal, invalid and unenforceable provision as may be possible.

(i) Binding Effect. Except as otherwise provided herein, this Agreement shall
be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective personal representative,
successors and assigns.

Gj) Governing Law. This Agreement will be construed and enforced in
accordance with the laws of the State of Utah.

(k) Amendments. This Agreement may not be amended, modified, revoked,
supplemented, waived or otherwise changed except by a written instrument executed by the Party
against whom enforcement is sought.

(1) Attorneys’ Fees. If either Party brings or commences any legal action or
proceeding to enforce any of the terms of this Agreement (or for damages by reason of an alleged
breach of this Agreement), the prevailing Party, if any, in such action shall be entitled to recover
from the non-prevailing Party all reasonable attorneys’ fees that may have been incurred, including
any and all costs and expenses incurred in enforcing, perfecting and executing such judgment, and
including all costs of appeal.

(m) Authority. The individuals who execute this Agreement represent and
warrant that they are duly authorized to execute this Agreement on behalf of Kennecott and Magna,
as the case may be, that the parties named are all the necessary and proper parties, and that no other
signature, act or authorization is necessary to bind such entity to the provisions of this Agreement.

(n) Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more
counterparts, each of which, when executed, will be deemed an original and all of which together
will be deemed one and the same instrument.

[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]
7
4811-4199-2127v2

IN WITNESS WHEREOPF, the Parties have executed this Agreement to be effective as of
the Effective Date.
KENNECOTT:
NOTARY INFORMATION/SEAL Kennecott Utah Copper LLC, a Utah limited liability
company
By:
Print Name:
Title:
MAGNA:
Magna Metro Township, a body corporate and
politic of the State of Utah
By: oe y VA OUP
Print Name: J2n/ LA AERIS
Title: Mayor or Designee 7, tye Va
APPROVAL AS TO FORM:
Uf 7
bbe
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
8
4811-4199-2127v2

EXHIBIT A
TO
LAND EXCHANGE AGREEMENT
Depiction of Kennecott Parcel
—— ee 5
— ar ae i — a — ——— SS : ———o - = —_ ———
“a
j
7 NF s*2==2 ty
ee 4 AAR |
Piette = ala: Wee oe ean 8 ee
SPS a ee ee Sa | ee ie lle 1 ee eee Rar ata ot it
‘ ES SAG MAC tS ee oS cme <r — i!
U7 Sy Sethe areires ulierd ety Se ole os AT fey teat ES OF. 22a, PA ape ata] oe +
ban oY Rf a et tS Se a eee ee tof} Say & a BS
s ag ig ee ay ree wed StS. on PU -* a, = = BY ‘iz f° ie con
A-1
4811-4199-2127v2

EXHIBIT B
TO
LAND EXCHANGE AGREEMENT
Depiction of Magna Parcels

4
}

B-1

4811-4199-2127y2

EXHIBIT C
TO
LAND EXCHANGE AGREEMENT
Form of Magna Parcels Deed

WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:

Kennecott Utah Copper LLC

Attn: Jeff Stephenson

4700 Daybreak Parkway

South Jordan, UT 84009
PLEASE MAIL TAX NOTICE TO GRANTEE
AT THE ADDRESS LISTED BELOW

Space above for County Recorder’s Use
Affects Tax Parcel Nos.
QUIT CLAIM DEED

THIS QUIT CLAIM DEED (this “Deed”) is by MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP, a body
corporate and politic of the State of Utah, as Grantor, in favor of KENNECOTT UTAH COPPER
LLC, a Utah limited liability company, as Grantee, with reference to the following:

A. Grantor owns certain real property (the “Property”) consisting of undeveloped
road sections, alleys, ways and public utility easements located along 8000 West between
approximately 1900 South to 2000 South and within the Progress Subdivision pursuant to that
certain plat recorded in the official records of the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office on October
19, 1916, as Entry No. 367691, in Book G of Plats, at Page 75. The Property is legally described
on Exhibit A attached hereto.

B. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-609(3), the legislative body of Magna Metro
Township approved and adopted [Ordinance No. | recorded concurrently herewith to vacate
the Progress Subdivision including all road sections, alleys, ways and public utility easements
therein.

C. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 72-5-105(2)(a), because Grantee is the record owner
of the real property adjoining the Property, title to to the vacated Property shall vest to Grantee.

NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, Grantor hereby quit claims to
Grantee, all right, title and interest in and to the Property located in Salt Lake County legally
described on Exhibit A attached hereto.

This Deed hereby provides notice that Magna Metro Township has vacated the Progress
Subdivision including all road sections, alleys, ways and public utility easements therein. Notice
by this Deed shall be effective upon its recording in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder,
Utah.

C-1
4811-4199-2127v2

Dated this 29 day of Pad, 007
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP, a body corporate
and politic of the State of Utah
By: “Lie VU.
Print Name: y
Title: — VOL
ATTEST:
Kirn Wnar
Clerk
STATE OF UTAH )
: SS.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE ) ww
te June
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this 24 day of Artettst, 2020,
by Dan W: ieee , the Maror of
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP.
NOTARY PUBLIC
Residingat, SLC>UT
My Commission Expires:
July \3, 20210
== NICHOLE WATT
i ¥\ Notary Public State of Utah
My pape i on:
ez <4 Comm. Number: 689716
C-2
4811-4199-2127v2

EXHIBIT A
TO
QUIT CLAIM DEED
(Legal Description of Property)
C-3
4811-4199-2127v2

EXHIBIT D
TO
LAND EXCHANGE AGREEMENT
Form of Kennecott Parcel Deed
WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:
Magna Metro Township
P.O. Box 136
Magna, Utah 84044
Space above for County Recorder’s use
Tax Serial No. 14-19-402-006
County Project No. EFCMC 19 0001
Surveyor WO: W101519079
QUITCLAIM DEED
KENNECOTT UTAH COPPER LLC, a Utah Limited Liability Company formerly
known as Kennecott Utah Copper Corporation, GRANTOR(s), of Salt Lake County, State of Utah,
hereby Quitclaim(s) to MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP, a body corporate and politic of the State
of Utah, GRANTEE, for the sum of Ten Dollars ($10.00) and other valuable consideration, the
following described parcel of real property in Salt Lake County, Utah, to wit:
(See EXHIBIT A attached
hereto and made a part hereof)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Grantor has caused this instrument to be executed by its duly
authorized representative this day of , 2020.
KENNECOTT UTAH COPPER LLC, a Utah
Limited Liability Company formerly known as
Kennecott Utah Copper Corporation
By:
Print Name:
Title:
4811-4199-2127v2
Prepared by SVK, Salt Lake County Surveyor, Ownership Record RW-05LLC
December 2, 2019 Page | of 5

markers It A
County Project h
Surveyor WO; W101519079
STATE OF UTAH )
'SS.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE )
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this day of F

2020, by , as
of KENNECOTT UTAH COPPER LLC, a Utah Limited Liability Company, formerly known as
Kennecott Utah Copper Corporation, a Utah Limited Liability Company.

NOTARY PUBLIC

Residing at:
My Commission Expires:
4811-4199-2127v2
Prepared by SVK, Salt Lake County Surveyor, Ownership Record RW-05LLC
December 2, 2019 Page 2 of 5

Tax Ser@t'NO.) 4-1-4022 =
County Pre Eu iar) j t A
Survey E WSIS
EXHIBIT A
TO
QUIT CLAIM DEED
A portion of 2600 South Street being part of an entire tract described in that Deed
recorded as Entry No. 805258 in Book 207 at Page 1 in the office of the Salt Lake County
Recorder. Said parcel of land is located in the South Half of Section 19, Township 1 South,
Range 2 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, and is described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the southerly right of way line of said 2600 South Street
with the easterly right of way line of 9180 West Street at the northwesterly corner of Lot 16,
LeCheminant Subdivision recorded on January 24, 1912 as Entry No. 290262 in Book F of
Plats at Page 83 in the office of said Recorder; thence N. 00°01’ E. (Record = North) 72.0 feet
along said easterly right of way line to the westerly projection of the northerly edge of an
existing sidewalk; thence N. 88°49’ E. 2096.59 feet along said westerly projection and northerly
edge of an existing sidewalk, to intersect the westerly boundary of an entire tract identified as
Parcel 14- 19-402-004 and described in a Special Warranty Deed recorded as Entry No.
11698820 in Book 10166 at Page 2697 in the office of said Recorder; thence S. 00°50’ E 10.20
feet along said westerly boundary to the southwesterly corner of said Parcel 14-19-402-004;
thence N. 88°49” E. (Record = N. 88°57°16” E.) 179.78 feet along the southerly boundary of
said Parcel 14-19-402-004 to intersect the westerly boundary of an entire tract identified as
Parcel 14-19- 480-001 and described in a Warranty Deed recorded as Entry No. 9713871 in
Book 9289 at Page 9342 in the office of said Recorder; thence S. 0°54’16” E. (Record = S.
1°00’ E.) 59.79 feet along said westerly line to intersect the easterly projection of the northerly
boundary of an entire tract identified as Parcel 14-19-479-006 and described in a Warranty
Deed recorded as Entry No. 12963875 in Book 10767 at Page 7016 in the office of said
Recorder; thence S. 88°49’ W. (Record = S. 89° W.) 160.0 feet along said easterly projection
and northerly boundary of Parcel 14-19-479-006 to the northeasterly corner of the Lincoln
Addition No. 1 Subdivision, recorded on August 8, 1918 as Entry No. 399297 in Book H of
Plats at Page 11 in the office of said Recorder; thence S. 88°49’ W. 718.5 feet along the
northerly boundary to the northwesterly corner of said Lincoln Addition No. 1 Subdivision;
thence S. 0°37’ E. 40.0 feet along a westerly boundary of said Lincoln Addition No. 1
Subdivision to intersect the easterly projection of the northerly boundary an entire track
identified as Parcel 14-19-476-007 and described in a Warranty Deed recorded as Entry No.
1478412 in Book 1299 at Page 606 in the office of said Recorder; thence S. 89°24’ W. 194.56
feet along said easterly projection and northerly boundary to intersect the easterly boundary of
the Lincoln Addition No. 2 Subdivision, recorded on August 8, 1918 as Entry No. 399298 in
Book H of Plats at Page 12 in the office of said Recorder; thence N. 00°29’ W. 38.02 feet
(Record = 38.64 feet) along said easterly boundary to the northeasterly corner of said Lincoln
Addition No. 2 Subdivision; thence S. 88°49’ W. 818.5 feet along the northerly boundary to
4811-4199-2127v2
Prepared by SVK, Salt Lake County Surveyor, Ownership Record RW-O5LLC
December 2, 2019 Page 2 of 5

Tax Ser 4-1)-4020 4
County Proce OEAMUE ior) | { A
Survey E 15136
the northwesterly corner of said Lincoln Addition No. 2 Subdivision; thence S. 00°01’ W. 14.0
feet along a westerly boundary of said Lincoln Addition No. 2 Subdivision to the northeasterly
corner of an entire tract identified as Parcel No. 14-19-453-001 and described in a Trustee’s
Deed recorded as Entry No. 11905437 in Book 10256 at Page 6529 in the office of said
Recorder; thence S. 88°49” W. (Record = West) 150.00 feet along the northerly boundary of
said Parcel 14-19-453-001 and a westerly extension thereof to intersect the easterly boundary
of Lot 35 of said LeCheminant Subdivision; thence N. 00°01’ E. (Record = North) 12.0 feet
along said easterly boundary to the northeasterly corner of said Lot 35; thence S. 88°49’ W.
(Record = West) 236 feet along the northerly boundary of said Lot 35 and Lot 16 of
LeCheminant Subdivision to the Point of Beginning.
The above-described parcel of land contains 167,680 square feet in area or 3.849 acres,
more or less
4811-4199-2127v2
Prepared by SVK, Salt Lake County Surveyor, Ownership Record RW-05LLC
December 2, 2019 Page 2 of 5

Tax Ser gl 421 0-402 =
County Project Wo. ft |
Survey : MSL
EXHIBIT B
TO
QUIT CLAIM DEED
% f
£
cover 8 oe
a ———e a -<=
i a
. i
Nae |
we
%
Ne
\
+
KS
%
y
hs i
———= = vss :
Ni
sy a
\ e
xX z
_. wear 3
920) WERT GT z
seu £
% 2
* £
ANS i
1 i
we] | f
os
s A
ein
0D WeaT aT : I
3) if
* He
as a esco TO 9180 WEST STREETS Reid J. Demman, PLS. ose GSS
. ne oS a ———
S| ee
4811-4199-2127v2
Prepared by SVK, Salt Lake County Surveyor, Ownership Record RW-05LLC
December 2, 2019 Page 2 of 5
