MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP

RESOLUTION NO.: 20-06-07 DATE: June 23, 2020
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
APPROVING A NONEXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE AGREEMENT BETWEEN
MAGNA AND ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER

RECITALS

A. The Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) is a municipality pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated (“UCA”) §§ 10-2a-401 et seq.

B. The Magna Metro Township Council (the “Council”) is the municipal governing body
for Magna pursuant to UCA § 10-3b-501.

C. Rocky Mountain Power (the “Utility”) is a regulated public utility and electricity
service provider to the residences and businesses of Magna.

D. Pursuant to State Law, the Utility is required to obtain a nonexclusive franchise
agreement from Magna to provide service, operations and maintenance within
Magna’s Utility Rights-of -Way.

E. Magna desires to have an agreement with the Utility as is benefits the entirety of the
municipality by providing a necessary public utility service (Electricity).

F. The attached agreement (Exhibit A) fulfills the statutory requirements of the Utility
and the needs of the Municipality.

I

RESOLUTION
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Magna Metro Township, the Mayor and
Council hereby approves and adopts the attached Nonexclusive Franchise Agreement
with Rocky Mountain Power, hereinafter known as Exhibit A, and authorized the Mayor
to sign the agreement.
APPROVED a D ADOPTED in the Magna Metro Township, Salt Lake County,
. ant@ W.
Utah this 27°” day of ab 2020.
FOR THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP:
< SLD
DAN W. PEAY, i
ATTEST
y ) f Ls J uy | APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk Ly
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder
PAUL H. ASHTON
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
VOTING ”
Council Member Hull voting Wf
Mayor Peay voting Ah lA ”
Council Member Peel voting 44 V; E |
Council Member Pierce voting “4 y,
Council Member Prokopis voting ApS cL a /
2

AN ORDINANCE GRANTING AN ELECTRIC UTILITY FRANCHISE
AND GENERAL UTILITY EASEMENT
TO
ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER
SS
WHEREAS, Rocky Mountain Power, is a regulated public utility that provides electric power
and energy to the citizens of Magna Metro Municipality (the “Municipality” or “Magna”) and
other surrounding areas;
WHEREAS, providing electrical power and energy requires the installation, operation and
maintenance of power poles and other related facilities to be located within the public ways of
the Municipality;
WHEREAS, the Municipality, pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code Ann. § 10-8-21 has the
authority to regulate power line facilities within public ways and to grant to Rocky Mountain
Power a general utility easement for the use thereof:
WHEREAS, the Municipality desires to set forth the terms and conditions by which Rocky
Mountain Power shall use the public ways of the Municipality;
NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Magna Metro Township Council:
SECTION 1. Grant of Franchise and General Utility Easement. The Municipality hereby
grants to Rocky Mountain Power the right, privilege and authority to construct, maintain,
operate, upgrade, and relocate its electrical distribution and transmission lines and related
appurtenances, including underground conduits and structures, poles, towers, wires, guy anchors,
vaults, transformers, transmission lines, and communication lines (collectively referred to herein
as “Electric Facilities”) in, under, along, over and across the present and future streets, alleys,
and rights-of-way, not including Municipal parks, buildings or other spaces not associated with
Municipally-owned rights-of way (collectively referred to herein as “Public Ways”) within the
Municipality, for the purpose of supplying and transmitting electric power and energy to the
inhabitants of the Municipality and persons and corporations beyond the limits thereof.
SECTION 2. Term. The term of this Franchise and General Utility Easement is for ten (10)
years commencing on the date of acceptance by the Company as set forth in Section 3 below.
SECTION 3. Acceptance by Company. Within sixty (60) days after the passage of this
ordinance by the Municipality, Rocky Mountain Power shall file an unqualified written
acceptance thereof, with the Metro Township Clerk/Recorder otherwise the ordinance and the
rights granted herein shall be null and void.
SECTION 4. Non-Exclusive Franchise. The right to use and occupy the Public Ways of the
Municipality shall be nonexclusive and the Municipality reserves the right to use the Public
1

Ways for itself or any other entity that provides service to residences and business located within
the municipality; provided, however, that such use shall not unreasonably interfere with Rocky
Mountain Power’s Electric Facilities or Rocky Mountain Power’s rights as granted herein.
SECTION 5. Municipal Regulatory Authority. In addition to the provision herein contained,
the Municipality reserves the right to adopt such additional ordinances and regulations as may be
deemed necessary in the exercise of its police power for the protection of the health, safety and
welfare of its citizens and their properties or exercise any other rights, powers, or duties required
or authorized, under the Constitution of the State of Utah, the laws of Utah or Magna Municipal
Ordinance.

SECTION 6. Indemnification. The Municipality shall in no way be liable or responsible for
any loss or damage to property or any injury to, or death, of any person that may occur in the
construction, operation or maintenance by Rocky Mountain Power of its Electric Facilities.
Rocky Mountain Power shall indemnify, defend and hold the Municipality harmless from and
against claims, demands, liens and all liability or damage of whatsoever kind on account of
Rocky Mountain Power’s use of the Public Ways within the Municipality, and shall pay the costs
of defense plus reasonable attorneys' fees for any claim, demand or lien brought thereunder. The
Municipality shall: (a) give prompt written notice to Rocky Mountain Power of any claim,
demand or lien with respect to which the Municipality seeks indemnification hereunder; and (b)
permit Rocky Mountain Power to assume the defense of such claim, demand, or lien. If such
defense is not assumed by Rocky Mountain Power, Rocky Mountain Power shall not be subject
to liability for any settlement made without its consent. Notwithstanding any provision hereof to
the contrary, Rocky Mountain Power shall not be obligated to indemnify, defend or hold the
Municipality harmless to the extent any claim, demand or lien arises out of or in connection with
any negligent or willful act or failure to act of the Municipality or any of its officers or
employees.

SECTION 7. Annexation.

71 Extension of the Municipality’s Limits. Upon the annexation of any territory to
the Municipality, the rights granted herein shall extend to the annexed territory to the extent the
Municipality has such authority. All Electrical Facilities owned, maintained, or operated by
Rocky Mountain Power located within any public ways of the annexed territory shall thereafter
be subject to all of the terms hereof.

7.2 Notice of Annexation. When any territory is approved for annexation to the
Municipality, the Municipality shall, not later than ten (10) working days after passage of an
ordinance approving the proposed annexation, provide by certified mail to Rocky Mountain
Power: (a) each site address to be annexed as recorded on county assessment and tax rolls; (b) a
legal description of the proposed boundary change; and (c) a copy of the Municipality’s
ordinance approving the proposed annexation. The notice shall be mailed to:

Rocky Mountain Power Customer Contact Center

Attn: Annexations

P.O. Box 400

2

Portland, Oregon 97207-0400
With copies to:

Rocky Mountain Power

Attn: Office of the General Counsel

1407 West North Temple, Room 320

Salt Lake City, UT 84116

The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District

ATTN: Planning and Development Services

2001 South State Street #N3-600

Salt Lake City, UT 84190
SECTION 8. Plan, Design, Construction and Installation of Company Facilities.

8.1 All Electrical Facilities installed or used under authority of this Franchise shall be
used, constructed and maintained in accordance with applicable federal, state and Municipal
laws, codes and regulations.

8.2 Except in the case of an emergency, Rocky Mountain Power shall, prior to
commencing new construction or major reconstruction work in the Public Ways, apply for any
permit from the Municipality as may be required by the Municipality’s ordinances, which permit
shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed. Rocky Mountain Power will abide
by all applicable ordinances and all reasonable rules, regulations and requirements of the
Municipality, and the Municipality may inspect the manner of such work and require remedies as
may be reasonably necessary to assure compliance. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Rocky
Mountain Power shall not be obligated to obtain a permit to perform emergency repairs.

8.3 All Electric Facilities shall be located so as to cause minimum interference with
the Public Ways of the Municipality and shall be constructed, installed, maintained, cleared of
vegetation, renovated or replaced in accordance with applicable rules, ordinances and regulations
of the Municipality.

8.4 If, during the course of work on its Electrical Facilities, Rocky Mountain Power
causes damage to or alters the Public Way or public property, Rocky Mountain Power shall (at
its own cost and expense and in a manner reasonably approved by the Municipality) replace and
restore it in as good a condition as existed before the work commenced.

8.5 In addition to the installation of underground electric distribution lines as
provided by applicable state law and regulations, Rocky Mountain Power shall, upon payment of
all charges provided in its tariffs or their equivalent, place newly constructed electric distribution
lines underground as may be required by Municipal ordinance.

8.6 The Municipality shall have the right without cost to use all poles and suitable
overhead structures owned by Rocky Mountain Power within Public Ways for Municipally-

3

Exhibit A
owned wires used in connection with its fire alarms, police signal systems, or other public safety
communication lines used for governmental purposes; provided, however, any such uses shall be
for activities owned, operated or used by the Municipality for a public purpose and shall not
include the provision of CATV, internet, or similar services to the public. Provided further, that
Rocky Mountain Power shall assume no liability nor shall it incur, directly or indirectly, any
additional expense in connection therewith, and the use of said poles and structures by the
Municipality shall be in such a manner as to prevent safety hazards or interferences with Rocky
Mountain Power’s use of same. Nothing herein shall be construed to require Rocky Mountain
Power to increase pole size, or alter the manner in which Rocky Mountain Power attaches its
equipment to poles, or alter the manner in which it operates and maintains its Electric Facilities.
Municipal attachments shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the reasonable
requirements of Rocky Mountain Power and the current edition of the National Electrical Safety
Code pertaining to such construction. Further, Municipal attachments shall be attached or
installed only after written approval by Rocky Mountain Power in conjunction with Rocky
Mountain Power’s standard pole attachment application process. Rocky Mountain Power shall
have the right to inspect, at the Municipality’s expense, such attachments to ensure compliance
with this Section 8.6 and to require the Municipality to remedy any defective attachments.

8.7 Rocky Mountain Power shall have the right to excavate the Public Rights of Ways
subject to reasonable conditions and requirements of the Municipality. Before installing new
underground conduits or replacing existing underground conduits, Rocky Mountain Power shall
first notify the Municipality of such work by written notice and shall allow the Municipality, at
its own expense, (to include a pro rata share of the trenching costs), to share the trench of Rocky
Mountain Power to lay its own conduit therein, provided that such action by the Municipality
will not unreasonably interfere with Rocky Mountain Power’s Electrical Facilities or delay
project completion.

8.7.1 Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated § 17-23-14, and Chapter 14.17 of the
Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances, if Rocky Mountain Power finds it necessary to disturb a
survey monument for any non-emergency reason, Rocky Mountain Power shall notify the Salt
Lake County Surveyor and obtain a Monument Preservation Permit at least five business days
prior to the disturbing, damaging, moving, removing, covering, resurfacing, roto-milling, or
destroying of any existing public survey monument(s). Should any monument be disturbed
absent such a permit due to an emergency situation that poses a threat to public health or safety
such as outage restoration or similar unplanned activities, a Monument Preservation Permit will
be obtained after the fact. New survey monuments, or replacement survey monuments, shall be
constructed in accordance with the Monument Preservation Permit issued by the Salt Lake
County Surveyor’s office. Non-compliance subject to penalties in Utah State Code Section 17-
23-15 and 76-8-415. Pipelines, manholes, and appurtenances shall be designed, located, or
adjusted during construction to prevent interference or conflict with the permanent location of
existing Survey Monuments.

8.8 | Before commencing any street improvements or other work within a Public Way
that may affect Rocky Mountain Power’s Electric Facilities, the Municipality shall give written
notice to Rocky Mountain Power.

4

Exhibit A
SECTION 9. Relocations of Electric Facilities.

9.1 The Municipality reserves the right to require Rocky Mountain Power to relocate
its Electric Facilities within the Public Ways in the interest of public convenience, necessity,
health, safety or welfare at no cost to the Municipality. Within a reasonable period of time after
written notice, Rocky Mountain Power shall promptly commence the relocation of its Electrical
Facilities. Before requiring a relocation of Electric Facilities, the Municipality shall, with the
assistance and consent of Rocky Mountain Power, identify a reasonable alignment for the
relocated Electric Facilities within the Public Ways of the Municipality.

The Municipality shall assign or otherwise transfer to Company all right it may have to recover
the cost for the relocation work and shall support the efforts of Rocky Mountain Power to obtain
reimbursement.

9.2 Rocky Mountain Power shall not be obligated to pay the cost of any relocation

that is required or made a condition of a private development. If the removal or relocation of
facilities is caused directly or otherwise by an identifiable development of property in the area, or
is made for the convenience of a customer, Rocky Mountain Power may charge the expense of
removal or relocation to the developer or customer. For example, Rocky Mountain Power shall
not be required to pay relocation costs in connection with a road widening or realignment where
the road project is made a condition of or caused by a private development.
SECTION 10. Subdivision Plat Notification. Before the Municipality approves any new
subdivision and before recordation of the plat, the Municipality shall obtain Rocky Mountain
Power’s approval of Electrical Facilities, including underground facilities to be installed by the
developer, and associated rights of way depicted on the plat. A copy of the plat shall be mailed
for approval to Rocky Mountain Power:

Rocky Mountain Power

Attn: Estimating Department

1569 W North Temple

Salt Lake City, UT 84116
SECTION 11.: Vegetation Management. Rocky Mountain Power or its contractor may prune
all trees and vegetation which overhang the Public Ways, whether such trees or vegetation
originate within or outside the Public Ways to prevent the branches or limbs or other part of such
trees or vegetation from interfering with Rocky Mountain Power’s Electrical Facilities. Such
pruning shall comply with the American National Standard for Tree Care Operation (ANSI
A300) and be conducted under the direction of an arborist certified with the International Society
of Arboriculture. A growth inhibitor treatment may be used for trees and vegetation species that
are fast-growing and problematic. Nothing contained in this Section shall prevent Rocky
Mountain Power, when necessary and with the approval of the owner of the property on which
they may be located, from cutting down and removing any trees which overhang streets.
SECTION 12. Renewal. At least 120 days prior to the expiration of this Franchise, Rocky
Mountain Power and the Municipality either shall agree to extend the term of this Franchise for a

5

mutually acceptable period of time or the parties shall use best faith efforts to renegotiate a
replacement Franchise. Rocky Mountain Power shall have the continued right to use the Public
Ways of the Municipality as set forth herein in the event an extension or replacement Franchise
is not entered into upon expiration of this Franchise.
SECTION 13. No Waiver. Neither the Municipality nor Rocky Mountain Power shall be
excused from complying with any of the terms and conditions of this Franchise by any failure of
the other, or any of its officers, employees, or agents, upon any one or more occasions to insist
upon or to seek compliance with any such terms and conditions.
SECTION 14. Transfer of Franchise. Rocky Mountain Power shall not transfer or assign any
rights under this Franchise to another entity, except transfers and assignments by operation of
law, or to affiliates, parents or subsidiaries of Rocky Mountain Power which assume all of Rocky
Mountain Power’s obligations hereunder, unless the Municipality shall first give its approval in
writing, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed; provided,
however, Rocky Mountain Power may assign, mortgage. pledge, hypothecate or otherwise
transfer without consent its interest in this Franchise to any financing entity, or agent on behalf
of any financing entity to whom Rocky Mountain Power (1) has obligations for borrowed money
or in respect of guaranties thereof, (ii) has obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or
similar instruments, or (iii) has obligations under or with respect to letters of credit, bankers
acceptances and similar facilities or in respect of guaranties thereof.
SECTION 15. Amendment. At any time during the term of this Franchise, the Municipality
through its Council, or Rocky Mountain Power may propose amendments to this Franchise by
giving thirty (30) days written notice to the other party of the proposed amendment(s) desired,
and both parties thereafter, through their designated representatives, will, within a reasonable
time, negotiate in good faith in an effort to agree upon mutually satisfactory amendment(s). No
amendment or amendments to this Franchise shall be effective until mutually agreed upon by the
Municipality and Rocky Mountain Power and formally adopted as an ordinance amendment,
which is accepted in writing by Rocky Mountain Power.
SECTION 16. Notices. Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices from Rocky Mountain
Power to the Municipality pursuant to or concerning this Franchise shall be delivered to the
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder's Office. Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices from the
Municipality to Rocky Mountain Power pursuant to or concerning this Franchise shall be
delivered to the Regional Business Management Director, Rocky Mountain Power, 70 North 200
East, Room 122, American Fork, Utah, 84003, and such other office as Rocky Mountain Power
may advise the Municipality of by written notice.
SECTION 17. Severability. If any section, sentence, paragraph, term or provision hereof is for
any reason determined to be illegal, invalid, or superseded by other lawful authority including
any state or federal regulatory authority having jurisdiction thereof or unconstitutional, illegal or
invalid by any court of common jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct,
and independent provision and such determination shall have no effect on the validity of any
other section, sentence, paragraph, term or provision hereof, all of which will remain in full force
and effect for the term of the Franchise or any renewal or renewals thereof.

6

SECTION 18. Waiver of Jury Trial. To the fullest extent permitted by law, each of the
parties hereto waives any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of litigation directly or
indirectly arising out of, under or in connection with this agreement. Each party further waives
any right to consolidate any action in which a jury trial has been waived with any other action in
which a jury trial cannot be or has not been waived.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the

dates below written to be effective as of .

FOR THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP:

DAN W. PEAY, MAYOR
ATTEST:

APPROVED AS TO FORM:
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
KREARKERKKKRKE KEE KEKE ERR ERE RR RRR KR RRR RRR ER RRR RRR RRERRKR KER RRR KREKRE
FOR ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER:
SIGNATURE TITLE
a Notary Information / Seal
PRINT NAME "Y
DATE
7
