MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO.: 21-09-02 DATE: September 14, 2021
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL APPROVING A CONTRACT BETWEEN
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP AND _ POSITIVE
IMPACT CONSULTING LLC (RORI L ANDREASON)
FOR MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATOR SERVICES
WHEREAS, The Magna Metro Township ("Magna") is a Metro Township pursuant to
Utah Code § 10-2a-401 et seq, and
WHEREAS, The Magna Metro Township Council ("Council") is a Metro Township
Council pursuant to Utah Code §10-3b-504, with the Mayor acting as Chair of the
Council pursuant to Utah Code §10-3b-503, and
WHEREAS, in June 2021, the Municipal Administrator for Magna, Government
Consultants LLC (Gregory Schulz), resigned his position as Municipal Administrator
for Magna Metro Township, and
WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township Council conducted a search for a Municipal
Administrator; and
WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township Council desires to retain the services of Rori
L. Andreason (Positive Impact Consulting LLC) to provide Municipal Administrator
services to the Magna Metro Township; and
WHEREAS, the attached agreement was negotiated between Positive Impact
Consulting LLC and Magna to fulfill Magna’s needs for an Administrator.
THEREFOR BE IT RESOLVED by the Magna Metro Township Council, as follows:
1. The Council approves and adopts the attached contract for Municipal Administrator
services from Positive Impact Consulting LLC (Rori Andreason), marked
Attachment "A" to this resolution, for the benefit of Magna, and authorizes the
Mayor to sign the same.

2. The Resolution shall take effect immediately.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Magna, Utah this 14" day of September 2021.
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP:
, a
Ww a <t £
DAN W. PEAY, MAYOR
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
. LL? ef; Le, (a
ATTEST PAUL H. ASHTON
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY

SHERRIE SWENSEN
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER
VOTING BY COUNCIL:
MAYOR DAN PEAY voting Aye
TRISH HULL voting Aye
BRINT PEEL voting Aye
STEVE PROKOPIS voting Aye

; Aye
AUDREY PIERCE voting

ATTACHMENT "A"

MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP CONTRACT NO.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
And
RORI L. ANDREASON, POSITIVE IMPACT CONSULTING LLC

THIS AGREEMENT (the “Agreement”) is made and entered into as of the last date set
forth on the signature page(s), whether signed in counterparts or otherwise, with an effective date
of September 14th, 2021, by and between Magna Metro Township, a political subdivision of the
State of Utah (the “Metro Township”), and Rori L. Andreason, Positive Impact Consulting LLC,
located at 3933 West Donalbain Street, South Jordan, UT 84009 (the “Company”). The Metro
Township and Company are sometimes referred to herein as the Parties.

NOW, THEREFORE, in exchange for valuable consideration, including without
limitations, the mutual covenants, agreements and representations contained in this Agreement,
the receipt of which is acknowledged, Metro Township and Company, with the intent to be legally
bound, covenant and agree as follows:

1. SERVICES.

Under the direction of the Mayor and Metro Township Council, and with the assistance of the
Metro Township’s legal counsel and other service providers, the Company will undertake and
perform the administrative and legislative work needed on behalf of the Metro Township to fulfill
the Metro Township’s governance requirements, as more fully set forth in Attachment “A”
attached hereto.

2. CONSIDERATION.

A. Monthly Rate. The Metro Township agrees to pay the Company for the services described

herein at the following rate:

-- $6,000.00 per month.

B. Costs. All reasonable costs for copying, travel, research and other necessary items will be
billed at the usual rate. Mileage reimbursement will be paid for use of Company’s vehicle,
at no more than the accepted rate set by the IRS, for travel reasonably required for their
work on behalf of the Metro Township. The Company’s Representative will consult the
Metro Township Mayor prior to incurring any extraordinary costs in their performance
under this Agreement. If performance under this Agreement requires Company to incur
extraordinary costs, the parties will agree to the amount of those costs prior to their
incurring the costs.

C. Billing. The Company agrees to submit monthly a billing statement of all time spent on
behalf of the Metro Township and costs incurred under this Agreement. The monthly
billing will detail the date and nature of the services rendered. The Metro Township will
pay the billing statement upon receipt of the statement from the Company.

D. Annual Budget Limitation. For the purposes of Metro Township budgeting and fiscal
control, the Company agrees that its billable services and costs shall not exceed $72,000
per calendar year. If, as a result of additional work needed, it becomes clear the budget
threshold shall be exceeded, the Company shall notify the Metro Township of the situation
and shall not perform such work until the situation is resolved. At the time of the
notification the Metro Township may budget, or make available through budget transfers,
additional funds for this Agreement, terminate the Agreement as provided below, or take
such other action, as it deems appropriate.

3. TERM.

This Agreement shall have a term of three (3) years, unless otherwise terminated as set forth
below, with an option to renew for an additional two years upon written agreement of both the
Metro Township and Company.

4. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR, TAXES OTHER WORK.

The relationship of Metro Township and Company under this Agreement shall be that of an
independent contractor status. Each party shall have the entire responsibility to discharge all of the
obligations of an independent contractor under federal, state, and local law, including but not

limited to, those obligations relating to employee supervision, benefits and wages; taxes;
unemployment compensation and insurance; social security; worker's compensation; disability
pensions and tax withholdings, including the filing of all returns and reports and the payment of
all taxes, assessments and contributions and other sums required of an independent contractor.
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to create the relationship between Metro
Township and Company of employer and employee, partner or joint-ventures. The parties agree
that Company’s obligations under this Agreement are solely to the Metro Township. This
Agreement shall not confer any rights to third parties, including the MSD or County, unless
otherwise agreed to by the parties.

The Company may be retained to represent other Metro Townships, or other governmental
entities. To the extent work performed mutually benefits all such entities the cost for services will
determined in the sole discretion of the Company. Although the Company does not see any direct
conflicts in its work for different entities, any conflicts that might exist, either in the present, or
future, are hereby waived by the Metro Township unless notice to the contrary is given in writing
to the Company, in which event the Company will defer to legal counsel and recuse on the issue
under conflict until it is resolved or waived.

5. INDEMNIFICATION.

Except to the extent paid in settlement from any applicable insurance policies, and to the extent
permitted by applicable law, each Party agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the other Party,
against any and all claims, losses, damages, liabilities, penalties, punitive damages, expenses,
reasonable legal fees and costs of any kind or amount whatsoever, which result from or arise out
of any act or omission of the indemnifying party that occurs in connection with this Agreement.
This indemnification will survive the termination of this Agreement.

6. GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY AND INSURANCE.

The Metro Township is a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah, subject to the
Governmental Immunity Act of Utah ("Act"), Utah Code Ann. §§ 63G-7-101, et. seq. (1953, as
amended). The Parties agree that Metro Township shall only be liable within the parameters of the

Act. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed in any way, to modify the limits of
liability set forth in that Act or the basis for liability as established in the Act. To the extent allowed
by law or contract, the Metro Township will cover the Company for all work product created and
work duties performed on behalf of, and under the direction of the Metro Township under the Act
or general liability insurance policies.

7. NON-FUNDING CLAUSE.

Metro Township shall pay for the services provided by the Company under this Agreement,
starting on the effective date of the Agreement. This Agreement shall create no obligation on the
Metro Township as to succeeding fiscal years and shall terminate and become null and void on the
last day of the fiscal year for which funds were budgeted and appropriated, except as to those
portions of payments agreed upon for which funds were appropriated and budgeted. Said
termination shall not be construed as a breach of this Agreement or any event of default under this
Agreement and said termination shall be without penalty, whatsoever, and no right of action for
damages or other relief shall accrue to the benefit of the Company, its successors, or its assigns,
as to this Agreement, or any portion thereof, which may terminate and become null and void. If
Metro Township does not appropriate funds for a succeeding fiscal year to fund performance under
this Agreement, the Metro Township shall promptly notify Company of said non-funding and the
termination of this Agreement, and in no event, later than 30 days prior to the expiration of the
fiscal year for which funds were appropriated.

8. AGENCY.

No agent, employee or servant of the Company or Metro Township is or shall be deemed to be
an employee, agent or servant of the other party. None of the benefits provided by each party to
its employees, including but not limited to worker's compensation insurance, health insurance and
unemployment insurance, are available to the employees, agents, or servants of the other party.
The Company and Metro Township shall each be solely and entirely responsible for its acts and
for the acts of its agents, employees, and servants during the performance of this Agreement.
Company and Metro Township shall each make all commercially reasonable efforts to inform all

persons with whom they are involved in connection with this Agreement to be aware that the
Company is an independent contractor.
9. NO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE INTEREST.

It is understood and agreed that no officer or employee of the Metro Township has or shall
have any pecuniary interest, direct or indirect, in this Agreement or the proceeds resulting from
the performance of this Agreement. No officer or employee of the Company or any member of
their family shall serve on any Metro Township board or committee or hold any such position
which either by rule, practice, or action nominates, recommends, or supervises Company’s
operations, or authorizes funding or payments to the Company.

10. ETHICAL STANDARDS.

The Company represents that it has not: (a) provided an illegal gift or payoff to any Metro
Township, officer or employee, or former Metro Township officer or employee, or to any relative
or business entity of a Metro Township officer or employee, or relative or business entity of a
former Metro Township officer or employee; (b) retained any person to solicit or secure this
contract upon an agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage or
contingent fee, other than bona fide employees of bona fide commercial agencies established for
the purpose of securing business; (c) breached any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute
or Metro Township adopted Ethics Code Chapter 2.07; or (d) knowingly influenced, and hereby
promises that it will not knowingly influence, any Metro Township officer or employee or former
Metro Township officer or employee to breach any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute
or Metro Township ordinances,

11. CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS.

The Metro Township adopted campaign finance disclosure ordinance limits campaign
contributions by contractors to Metro Township candidates. The Company acknowledges and
understands those limitations on campaign contributions mean that any person, business,

corporation or other entity that enters into a contract or is engaged in a contract with the Metro
Township is prohibited from making campaigning contributions in excess of $100.00 to Metro
Township candidates during the term of the contact and during a single election cycle as defined
in the ordinance. The Company further acknowledges that violation of those provisions governing
campaign contributions may result in criminal sanctions as well as termination of this Agreement.
12. PUBLIC FUNDS AND PUBLIC MONIES.

Definitions: "Public funds" and "public monies" mean monies, funds, and accounts, regardless
of the source from which they are derived, that are owned, held, or administered by the state or
any of its boards, commissions, institutions, departments, divisions, agencies, bureaus,
laboratories, or other similar instrumentalities, or any county, city, school district, political
subdivision, or other public body. The terms also include monies, funds or accounts that have been
transferred by any of the aforementioned public entities to a private contract provider for public
programs or services. Said funds shall maintain the nature of "public funds" while in the
Company’s possession. The Company, as recipient of "public funds" and "public monies" pursuant
to this and other contracts related hereto, expressly understands that he is obligated to receive, keep
safe, transfer, disburse and use these "public funds" and "public monies" as authorized by law and
this Agreement for the provision of services to the Metro Township. The Company understands
that he may be criminally liable for misuse of public funds or monies. The Company expressly
understands that Metro Township may monitor the expenditure of public funds by the Company.
The Company expressly understands that Metro Township may withhold funds or require
repayment of funds from the Company for contract noncompliance, failure to comply with
directives regarding the use of public funds, or for misuse of public funds or monies.

13. TERMINATION.
A. Termination for Default. Metro Township may terminate this Agreement for an "Event of
Default" as defined, upon written notice from Metro Township to Company.

B. Termination by Company for Default. The Company may terminate this Agreement for

an Event of Default upon written notice from Attorney to Metro Township.

C. Event of Default. As used in this Agreement, the term "Event of Default" means (a) a party
fails to make any payment hereunder when the same becomes due and such failure
continues for a period of thirty (30) days after written notice to the party filling to make
such payment; (b) a party hereto fails to perform any of its material obligations and such
failure continues for a period of thirty (30) days after written notice to such defaulting
party; or (c) any material representation or warranty of a party contained in this Agreement
proves to be untrue or incorrect in any material respect when made.

D. Force Majeure. Neither party shall be liable for a failure to perform any excess costs if the
failure to perform arises from causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence
of that party, e.g., acts of God, fires, floods, strikes, or unusually severe weather. If such
condition continues for a period in excess of 60 days, Company or Metro Township shall
have the right to terminate this Agreement without liability or penalty effective upon
written notice to the other party.

E. No Limitation of Rights. The rights and remedies of the Parties hereto are in addition to
any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this Agreement. The Parties agree
that the waiver of any breach of this Agreement by either party shall in no event constitute
a waiver as to any future breach.

F. Termination for Convenience. Metro Township reserves the right to terminate this
Agreement, in whole or in part, at any time during the Term or any Additional Terms
whenever Metro Township determines, in its sole discretion that it is in the Metro
Township's interest to do so. If Metro Township elects to exercise this right, Metro
Township shall provide written notice to the Company at least thirty (30) days prior to the
date of termination for convenience. Upon such termination, Company shall be paid for all
services up to the date of termination. Company agrees that the Metro Township’s
termination for convenience will not be deemed a termination for default nor will it entitle
Company to any rights or remedies provided by law or this Agreement for breach of
contract by the Metro Township or any other claim or cause of action.

The Parties agree that the waiver of any breach of this Agreement by either party shall in no

event constitute a waiver as to any future breach.

14. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.

Each party agrees to comply with all federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations in the
performance of its duties and obligations under this Agreement. Any violation by Company of
applicable law, rule or regulation, shall constitute an event of default under this Agreement and
Company shall be liable for and hold the Metro Township harmless and defend the Metro
Township from and against any and all liability arising out of or connected with the violation, to
include all attorney fees and costs incurred by the Metro Township as a result of the violation.

15. NON-DISCRIMINATION.

Company, and all persons acting on its behalf, agree that they shall comply with all federal,
state and County laws, rules ordinance and regulations governing discrimination and they shall not
discriminate in the engagement or employment of any professional person or any other person
qualified to perform the services required under this Agreement.

16. LABOR REGULATIONS AND REOUIREMENTS.

The Company agrees to comply with all applicable provisions of Title 34 of the Utah Code,
and with all applicable federal, state and local labor laws. The Company shall indemnify and hold
the Metro Township harmless from and against any and all claims for liability arising out of any
violation of this paragraph or the laws referenced by Company, its agents or employees.

17. CONFIDENTIALITY.

Company shall hold all information provided to it by Metro Township for the purposes of
performance of this Agreement, whether provided in written or other form, in strict confidence,
shall make no use thereof other than for its representation of the Metro Township under this
Agreement, and shall not release any of said information to any third party, who is not involved in
the performance of services under the Agreement, or to any representative of the news media
without prior written consent of Metro Township.

18. GOVERNMENT RECORDS ACCESS MANAGEMENT ACT.

Company acknowledges that Metro Township is a governmental entity subject to the Utah
Government Records Access Management Act ("GRAMA"), Utah Code Ann. §§ 63G-2-101, et
seq. As a result, Metro Township is required to disclose certain information and materials to the
public, upon request. The Company agrees to timely refer all requests for documents, materials
and data in its possession relating to this Agreement and its performance to the Mayor of the Metro
Township with notice also being provided to legal counsel for the township, if any.

19. INTERPRETATION.

Metro Township and Company agree that where possible, each provision of this Agreement
shall be interpreted in such a manner as to be consistent and valid under applicable law; but if any
provision of this Agreement shall be invalid, prohibited or unenforceable under applicable law,
such provision shall be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity or prohibition, without
invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this Agreement.

20. ASSIGNMENT.

Company shall not assign or transfer its duties of performance nor its rights to compensation
under this Agreement, without the prior written approval of Metro Township.
21. SUBCONTRACTING.

Company agrees that it shall not subcontract to provide any of the services under this,
Agreement or execute performance of its obligations under this Agreement without prior expressed
and written consent of Metro Township.

22. NOTICES.

All notices to be given under this Agreement shall be made in writing and shall be deemed
given upon personal delivery, upon the next business day immediately following the day sent if
sent by overnight express carrier, or upon the third business day following the day sent if sent
postage prepaid by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the Parties at the
following addresses (or to such other address or addresses as shall be specified in any notice given):

Metro Township: Dan W. Peay, Mayor
Magna Metro Township
8952 West Magna Main Street
Magna, UT 84044

Company: Rori L. Andreason
Positive Impact Consulting LLC
3933 West Donalbain Street
South Jordan, UT 84009

23. TIME.

The Parties stipulate that time is of the essence in the performance of this Agreement. The time
set forth for performance in this Agreement shall be strictly followed and any default in
performance according to the times required may be a default of this Agreement and be a cause
for termination of this Agreement and pursuit of any remedy allowed by this Agreement and by
law.

24. ENTIRE AGREEMENT.

Metro Township and Company acknowledge and agree that this Agreement constitutes the
entire integrated understanding between the parties, and that there are no other terms, conditions,
representations or understanding, whether written or oral, concerning the rights and obligations of
the Parties to this Agreement except as set forth in this Agreement, and any prior agreements,
representations or understandings by and between the parties from the effective date of this
Agreement shall be null and void. This Agreement may not be enlarged, modified or altered, except
in writing, signed by the Parties.

25. GOVERNING LAW.

It is understood and agreed by the Parties hereto that the laws of the State of Utah and the
Ordinances of Metro Township, both as to interpretation and performance, shall govern this
Agreement. All actions, including but not limited to court proceedings, administrative
proceedings, arbitration and mediation proceedings, shall be commenced, maintained, adjudicated
and resolved within the jurisdiction of the State of Utah.

26. DISPUTES.

Disputes. Any controversy, claim or dispute in the course and scope of this Agreement or its
breach, termination, enforcement, interpretation or validity, including the determination of the
scope or applicability of this agreement to arbitrate, shall be determined by binding arbitration in
Salt Lake City, Utah, before a sole arbitrator. "Disputes" shall include, without limitation, those
involving fees, costs, billing, claims of negligence, and breach of ethical or fiduciary duties. The
American Arbitration Association (AAA) shall administer the arbitration pursuant to its
Commercial Arbitration Rules and Supplementary Procedures for Large, Complex Disputes. The
arbitration proceedings and record will be confidential and closed to the public. The arbitrator must
be a member in good standing of the Utah State Bar. The arbitrator shall, in the Award, allocate
all of the costs of the arbitration, including the fees of the arbitrator and the reasonable attorney's
fees of the prevailing party, against the party who did not prevail. Judgment on the Award may be
entered in any court having jurisdiction.

27, COUNTERPARTS.

This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts and all so executed shall constitute
one agreement binding on all the Parties, notwithstanding that each of the Parties are not signatory
to the original or the same counterpart. Further, executed copies of this Agreement delivered by
facsimile or scanned e-mail shall be deemed an original signed copy of this Agreement.

AGREED TO BY THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL ON THIS 147 DAY OF
SEPTEMBER, 2021.
FOR THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
DAN W. PEAY, MAYOR
Attest:
Dh due APPROVED AS TO FORM:
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
AGREED BY COMPANY:
DATE: _“%-/4~ £) SIGNATURE: HY. 7 I 7

ATTACHMENT “A” —- SCOPE OF WORK

SCOPE OF WORK - MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATOR

MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP

GENERAL OVERVIEW
Under the direction of the Mayor, shall provide Municipal Administrator support to promote
efficient and effective work for the Council and Metro Township. Shall interface on behalf of the
Mayor and Council with the providers of municipal-type services to Magna and offer guidance
and communicate administrative standards as it applies to the delivery of those services. Under the
direction of the Mayor, may work collaboratively with federal, state, county, other agencies, and
community organizations for the mutual benefit of the Metro Township.
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES TO BE PERFORMED UNDER SCOPE OF WORK

e Advises the Council on a variety of Metro Township issues and assists in developing policies
to address identified issues as directed by the Mayor and Council.

e Coordinates with legal staff to perform paralegal work and provide administrative
recommendations to ordinances and resolutions deemed necessary and appropriate for the
best interest of the Metro Township.

e Develop, plan, and communicate Council-approved Metro Township goals and objectives to
the municipal service providers and the public.

e Under the direction of the Mayor, represents the interest of the Metro Township before
federal, state, county, other governmental agencies, and community organizations.

e Provides administrative guidance and communicates expected community standards of
service to the municipal service providers performing work for benefit of the Metro Township.

e Coordinates with Council fiscal staff, MSD fiscal staff, and Mayor to develop the Metro
Township’s Annual Budget and provides guidance to the Council as to the administration of
the Metro Township Budget.

e Performs special projects for the Council on an “‘as-requested” basis.

e Make recommendations to the Mayor and Council on hiring contract personnel to complete
administrative tasks (i.e., cemetery administration, information technology, etc.)

e Prepare agendas and meeting packets including creating ordinances, resolutions, and other
items for consideration by the Council.

e If appointed by the Council, may function as a Hearing Officer for certain matters.

e Assists the Chair during public meetings as the parliamentarian to the Council.

e Attends all regular and special meetings of the Council as required.
