RESOLUTION No.: 21-04-01 DATE: APRIL 13, 2021
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR TO EXECUTE AN AGREEMENT FOR
ELECTION SERVICES WITH SALT LAKE COUNTY FOR 2021 VOTE
BY MAIL MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS AND APPOINTING GREG
SCHULZ, ADMINISTRATOR, AS THE ELECTION LIAISON

WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township ("Magna") is a Municipality pursuant to

Utah Code §§ 10-2a-401 et seq; and

WHEREAS, Magna is governed by a five-member elected Council, each of
whom is by distict under Utah Code Ann.§ 10-3-205.5, and

WHEREAS, the terms of two members of the Council are set to expire at the end
of 2021, and

WHEREAS, during 2021, Municipal Elections will be conducted within Magna
Metro Township for the District Two and District 4 Council seats; and

WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township Council desires to conduct the Election by
Vote by Mail, Traditional Voting, by election officials of Salt Lake County (“the County”);
and

WHEREAS, the County has the expertise and election equipment to provide such
services; and

WHEREAS, the County has proposed an Interlocal Agreement to provide said election
services at a sum not to exceed $8,693; and

WHEREAS, the parties desire to continue by contracting said services under the same
terms and conditions;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved by the Magna Metro Township Council that the

Mayor is authorized to execute the Interlocal Agreement with Salt Lake County providing for

Resolution 21-04-01 -1-

the conducting of the 2021 Vote by Mail, Ranked Choice Vote, Municipal Elections
within the Metro Township as set forth in Exhibit “A” attached hereto.
ADOPTED this 27% day of April 2021.
BY: (>) 7 7, ee)
DAN W. PEAY, MAY.

ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
2 eee PAUL H. ASH : ON

SHERRIE SWENSEN METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY

SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK

METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER

VOTE BY COUNCIL: AYE NAY

MAYOR DAN PEAY x

TRISH HULL 7 sa

BRINT PEEL 4

AUDREY PIERCE 4

STEVE PROKOPIS ¥
Resolution 21-04-01 -2-

County Contract No. CA0000000000859
D.A. No.
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
between /
14" crt? VAT HLA. op
(Name of Metro Township)
and
SALT LAKE COUNTY on behalf of the
COUNTY CLERK’S ELECTION’S DIVISION
FOR LOCAL ELECTION Z
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into the 2) day of
(
Apr [ , 2021, by and between SALT LAKE COUNTY (the “County”), a body
corporate and politic of the State of Utah, on behalf of the Salt dhe County Clerk’s
cg.
Office, Elections Division; and VLA — Mee? LOE Metro Township”)
a municipality created under the laws of the State of Utah.
RECITALS:

WHEREAS, the County desires to provide the services of its clerk’s office,
elections division, to the Metro Township for the purpose of assisting the Metro
Township in conducting the Metro Township’s 2021 primary and general municipal
elections; and

WHEREAS, the Metro Township desires to engage the County for such services;
and

WHEREAS, the parties are public agencies and are therefore authorized by the
Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CODE ANN. §§ 11-13-101 to -608 (2018), to enter
into agreements to cooperate with each other in a manner which will enable them to
make the most efficient use of their resources and powers.

AGREEMENT:
1

NOW THEREFORE, in exchange for valuable consideration, including the mutual
covenants contained in this Agreement, the parties covenant and agree as follows:

1. Term. The County shall provide election services described below to the
Metro Township commencing on the date this Agreement is executed and terminating
on December 31, 2021. Either party may cancel this Agreement upon thirty (30) days
written notice to the other party. Upon such cancellation, each party shall retain
ownership of any property it owned prior to the date of this Agreement, and the Metro
Township shall own any property it created or acquired pursuant to this Agreement.

2. Scope of Work. The services to be provided by the County shall be as set
forth in the Scope of Work, attached hereto and incorporated by, reference as Exhibit
“A.” Generally, the County shall perform the listed election functions as set forth in
Exhibit “A” and as needed to ensure implementation of the Metro Township’s 2021
primary and general municipal elections.

3. Legal Requirements.

a. The County and the Metro Township understand and agree that the

2021 Metro Township primary and general municipal elections are the Metro

Township’s elections. The Metro Township shall be responsible for compliance

with all legal requirements for these elections. The Metro Township agrees to

translate ballot issues, if any, into Spanish. The County will provide the remaining

Spanish translations for the ballot and other election materials as required by

law. The County agrees to work with the Metro Township in complying with all

legal requirements for the conduct of these elections and conduct these elections
pursuant to the direction of the Metro Township, except as provided in this

Agreement and Exhibit “A.” The County agrees to disclose and maintain election

2

results through its website merely as a courtesy and convenience to the Metro

Township. The Metro Township, and not the County, is responsible to resolve

any and all election questions, problems, and legal issues that are within the

Metro Township’s statutory authority.

b. The County and the Metro Township understand and agree that if
County offers services or resources to conduct an instant runoff voting election,
or rank choice voting, as described in sections 20A-4-603 and -604, UTAH CODE
ANN. (2018), the estimated cost of administering such an election will be
provided.

Cc. In accordance with 20A-4-602(3)(a), the Metro Township shall
provide the Lt. Governor’s and County notice of their intent to use Rank Choice
Voting as their selected method of voting, no later than the second Monday in
May, May, 10, 2021.

4. Cost. In consideration of the services performed under this Agreement,
the Metro Township shall be obligated to pay the County. If the Metro Township
selects a traditional vote election, the Metro Township shall pay an amount not to
exceed the estimate attached hereto and incorporated by reference as Exhibit “B,” If
the Metro Township selects an instant runoff voting election/rank choice voting
election, an estimate of such services shall be provided attached hereto and
incorporated by reference as Exhibit “B.” The County shall provide a written invoice to
the Metro Township at the conclusion of the elections, and the Metro Township shall
pay the County within thirty days of receiving the invoice. The invoice shall contain a
summary of the costs of the election and shall provide the formula for allocating the
costs among the issues and jurisdictions participating in the elections. In the case of a

3

vote recount, election system audit, election contest, or similar event arising out of the
Metro Township’s election, the Metro Township shall pay the County’s actual costs of
responding to such events, based on a written invoice provided by the County. The
invoice amount for these additional services may cause the total cost to the Metro
Township to exceed the estimate given to the Metro Township by the County. For such
consideration, the County shall furnish all materials, labor and equipment to complete
the requirements and conditions of this Agreement.

5. Governmental Immunity. The Metro Township and the County are
governmental entities and subject to the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, UTAH
CODE ANN. §§ 63G-7-101 to —904 (2018) (the “Governmental Immunity Act”). Nothing
in this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver of any rights, statutory limitations on
liability, or defenses applicable to the Metro Township or the County under the
Governmental Immunity Act or common law. Each party shall retain liability and
responsibility for the acts and omissions of their representative officers. In no event
shall this Agreement be construed to establish a partnership, joint venture or other
similar relationship between the parties and nothing contained herein shall authorize
either party to act as an agent for the other. Each of the parties hereto assumes full
responsibility for the negligent operations, acts and omissions of its own employees,
agents and contractors. It is not the intent of the parties to incur by Agreement any
liability for the negligent operations, acts, or omissions of the other party or its agents,
employees, or contractors.

6. No Obligations to Third Parties. The parties agree that the County’s
obligations under this Agreement are solely to the Metro Township. This Agreement
shall not confer any rights to third parties.

4

7. Indemnification. Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Metro Township
agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the County, its agents, officers and employees
from and against any and all actions, claims, lawsuits, proceedings, liability, damages,
losses and expenses (including attorney’s fees and costs), arising out of or resulting
from the performance of this Agreement to the extent the same are caused by any
negligent or wrongful act, error or omission of the Metro Township, its officers, agents
and employees and including but not limited to claims that the County violated any state
or federal law in the provision of election services under this Agreement.

8. Election Records. The Metro Township shall maintain and keep control
of all records created pursuant to this Agreement and from the elections relevant to this
Agreement. The Metro Township shall respond to all public record requests related to
this Agreement and the underlying elections and shall retain all election records
consistent with the Government Records Access and Management Act, UTAH CODE
ANN. §§ 63G-2-101 to -901 (2018), and all other relevant local, state and federal laws.

9. Service Cancellation. If the Agreement is canceled by the Metro
Township as provided above, the Metro Township shall pay the County on the basis of
the actual services performed according to the terms of this Agreement. Upon
cancellation of this Agreement by either party, the County shall submit to the Metro
Township an itemized statement for services rendered under this Agreement up to the
time of cancellation and based upon the dollar amounts for materials, equipment and
services set forth herein.

10. Legal Compliance. The County, as part of the consideration herein, shall
comply with all applicable federal, state and county laws governing elections.

5

11. Agency. No agent, employee or servant of the Metro Township or the
County is or shall be deemed to be an employee, agent or servant of the other party.
None of the benefits provided by either party to its employees including, but not limited
to, workers’ compensation insurance, health insurance and unemployment insurance,
are available to the employees, agents, or servants of the other party. The Metro
Township and the County shall each be solely and entirely responsible for its own acts
and for the acts of its own agents, employees and servants during the performance of
this Agreement.

12. Force Majeure. Neither party shall be liable for any excess costs if the
failure to perform arises from causes beyond the control and without the fault or
negligence of that party, e.g., acts of God, fires, floods, strikes or unusually severe
weather. If such condition continues for a period in excess of 60 days, the Metro
Township or the County shall have the right to terminate this Agreement without liability
or penalty effective upon written notice to the other party.

13. Notices. Any notice or other communication required or permitted to be
given under this Agreement shall be deemed sufficient if given by a written communication
and shall be deemed to have been received upon personal delivery, actual receipt, or
within three (3) days after such notice is deposited in the United States mail, postage
prepaid, and certified and addressed to the parties as set forth below:

Salt Lake County Salt Lake County Mayor

2001 South State Street, N2-100

Salt Lake City, Utah 84190

and

Michelle Blue

Fiscal Manager

Salt Lake County Clerk's Office

2001 South State, Suite S1-200
6

Salt Lake City, Utah 84190-1050
email: mblue@sico.org
Metro Township € ahs
Te AG at Jf
Ma grap LI £7247
email: Treg « ozk vie bP ngnectty D4

14. Required Insurance Policies. Both parties to this Agreement shall
maintain insurance or self-insurance coverage sufficient to meet their obligations
hereunder and consistent with applicable law.

15. Independent Contractor. Because the County is consolidating election
functions in order to conduct multiple, simultaneous elections on August 10, 2021, and
on November 2, 2021, certain decisions by the County referenced in Exhibit “A” may not
be subject to review by the Metro Township. It is therefore understood by the parties
that the County will act as an independent contractor with regard to its decisions
regarding resources, procedures and policies based upon providing the same scope
and level of service to all participating jurisdictions made for the benefit of the whole as
set forth in Exhibit “A.”

16. No Officer or Employee Interest. It is understood and agreed that no
officer or employee of the County has or shall have any pecuniary interest, direct or
indirect, in this Agreement or the proceeds resulting from the performance of this
Agreement. No officer or employee of the Metro Township or any member of their
families shall serve on any County board or committee or hold any such position which
either by rule, practice or action nominates, recommends or supervises the Metro
Township’s operations or authorizes funding or payments to the Metro Township.

7

17. Ethical Standards. The Metro Township represents that it has not: (a)
provided an illegal gift to any County officer or employee, or former County officer or
employee, or to any relative or business entity of a County officer or employee, or
relative or business entity of a former County officer or employee; (b) retained any
person to solicit or secure this contract upon an agreement or understanding for a
commission, percentage, brokerage or contingent fee, other than bona fide employees “4
of bona fide commercial agencies established for the suiese of securing pusiness: () |
breached any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute or section 2.07, Salt
Lake County Code of Ordinances; or (d) knowingly influenced, and hereby promises
that it will not knowingly influence, any County officer or employee or former County
officer or employee to breach any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute or
Salt Lake County ordinance.

18. Interlocal Agreement. In satisfaction of the requirements of the Utah
Interlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CoDE ANN. §§ 11-13-101 to -608 (2018), (the
“Interlocal Act”), in connection with this Agreement, the Metro Township and the County
agree as follows:

a. This Agreement shall be approved by each party, pursuant to
section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act;

b. This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and
compliance with applicable law by a duly authorized attorney on behalf of each
party, pursuant to Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act;

Cc. Any duly executed original counterpart of the Agreement shall be
filed with the keeper of records of each party, pursuant to section 11-13-209 of
the Interlocal Act;

8

d. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each party shall
be responsible for its own costs of any action performed pursuant to this
Agreement, and for any financing of such costs; and

e. No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement.
No real or personal property shall be acquired jointly by the parties as a result of
this Agreement. To the extent that a party acquires, holds or disposes of any real
or personal property for use in the joint or cooperative undertaking contemplated
by this Agreement, such party shall do so in the same manner that it deals with
other property of such party.

f. County and Metro Township Representatives.

i. The County designates the County Clerk as the County’s
representative to assist in the administrative management of this
Agreement and to coordinate performance of the services under this
Agreement.

li. The Metro Township designates the Metro Township’s
Atha etre? 2Z2f>~ [title] as the Metro  Township’s
representative in its performance of this Agreement. The Metro
Township’s Representative shall have the responsibility of working with
the County to coordinate the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement.

19. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts by the
Metro Township and the County.
20. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the
State of Utah both as to interpretation and performance. All actions including but not
9

limited to court proceedings, administrative proceedings, arbitration and mediation
proceedings, shall be commenced, maintained, adjudicated and resolved within Salt
Lake County.

21. Integration. This Agreement embodies the entire agreement between the
parties relating to the subject matter of this Agreement and shall not be altered except in
writing signed by both parties.

10

IN WITNESS WHEREOPF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the day
and year first above written.
SALT LAKE COUNTY:
Kimberly esas
Barnett 25850"
Mayor or Designee
Date:
Recommended for Approval:
Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Approved as to Form:
igitally signed by Jason S, Ro:
Jason S.ROse —_pater20z1.0317 1ea0.11 0600
BY an
Deputy District Attorney
Date:
Li2 4A 4 (METRO TOWNSHIP):
Title: ‘A
Date: - a
Anproved Te Form:
Mayra. Alengy
11

Exhibit “A”
2021 Municipal Elections
Scope of Work
Traditional Voting

The Metro Township agrees to the consolidation of all election administrative functions to ensure the
successful conduct of multiple, simultaneous municipal, local district elections and county elections and the
County agrees to conduct vote by mail/consolidated polls elections for the Metro Township.
In a consolidated election, decisions made by the County regarding resources, procedures and policies are
based upon providing the same scope and level of service to all the participating jurisdictions and the
Metro Township recognizes that such decisions, made for the benefit of the whole, may not be subject to
review by the Metro Township.
Services the County will perform for the Metro Township include, but are not limited to:

e Candidate Filing

e Management of Financial Disclosures

e Ballot layout and design

e Ballot ordering and printing

e Machine programming and testing

© Delivery of supplies and equipment

e Provision of all supplies

e Election vote center/early vote locations

e Vote by Mail administration .

e Updating state and county websites

e Tabulating, reporting, auditing and preparing canvassing election results

e Conducting recounts as needed

e All notices and mailings required by law (except those required by Utah Code Ann. Ch. 11-14, Part 2

and § 20A-9-203)
e Direct payment of all costs associated with the elections to include vote center workers, training,
polling places, rovers.

The Metro Township will provide the County Clerk with information, decisions, and resolutions and will take
appropriate actions required for the conduct of the elections in a timely manner.
The County will provide a good faith estimate for budgeting purposes (Exhibit “B”). Election costs are
variable and are based upon the offices scheduled for election, the number of voters, the number of
jurisdiction participating as well as any direct costs incurred.
The Metro Township will be invoiced for its pro-rata share of the actual costs of the elections which will not
exceed the estimate in Exhibit B. In the event of a state or county special election being held in conjunction
with a municipal election, the scope of services and associated costs, and the method of calculating those
costs, will remain unchanged.

Rank Choice Voting

The Metro Township agrees to the consolidation of al! election administrative functions to ensure the
successful conduct of multiple, simultaneous municipal, local district elections and county elections and the
County agrees to conduct vote by mail/consolidated polls elections for the Metro Township.
The Metro Township agrees and understands that choosing to hold Rank Choice Voting will eliminate the
need for a primary election.
The Metro Township agrees and understands that the County can preform Rank Choice Voting for races
that rank up to 10 candidates. The County is unable to rank more than 10 candidates in any given race.
In a consolidated election, decisions made by the County regarding resources, procedures and policies are
based upon providing the same scope and level of service to all the participating jurisdictions and the
Metro Township recognizes that such decisions, made for the benefit of the whole, may not be subject to
review by the Metro Township.
Services the County will perform for the Metro Township include, but are not limited to:

® Candidate Filing

® Management of Financial Disclosures

e Ballot layout and design

e Ballot ordering and printing

e Machine programming and testing

e Delivery of supplies and equipment

e Provision of all supplies

e Election vote center/early vote locations

e Vote by Mail administration

e Updating state and county websites

e Tabulating, reporting, auditing, and preparing canvassing election results

e Conducting recounts as needed

e All notices and mailings required by law (except those required by Utah Code Ann. Ch. 11-14, Part 2

and § 20A-9-203)
e Direct payment of all costs associated with the elections to include vote center workers, training,
polling places, rovers.

The Metro Township will provide the County Clerk with information, decisions, and resolutions and will take
appropriate actions required for the conduct of the elections in a timely manner.
The Metro Township will provide all voter education outreach related to Rank Choice Voting.
The County will provide a good faith estimate for budgeting purposes (Exhibit “B”). Election costs are
variable and are based upon the offices scheduled for election, the number of voters, the number of
jurisdictions participating as well as any direct costs incurred.
The Metro Township will be invoiced for its pro-rata share of the actual costs of the elections which will not
exceed the estimate in Exhibit B. In the event of a state or county special election being held in conjunction
with a municipal election, the scope of services and associated costs, and the method of calculating those
costs, will remain unchanged.

Exhibit “B”
2021 Election Costs
Magna Metro Township
Below is the good faith estimate for the upcoming 2021 Municipal Election for Magna
Metro Township. Assumptions for providing this estimate consist of the following:
A. Active voters (as of 3/8/2021): 4,396
B. Election for the offices below:
Council District 2
Council District 4
Magna Metro Township may select either a traditional vote election, or an instant runoff
vote election (rank choice voting). If the Township selects a traditional vote election, the
Township will be billed for actual costs, which will not exceed this estimate.
Traditional Voting Election NTE Cost: $8,647
If the Township selects an instant runoff voting election/rank choice voting election, the
Township will be billed for actual costs, which are estimated below.
Rank Choice Voting Election Estimated Cost for both Primary & General: $8,693*
K Rank Choice Voting Election Estimated Cost for General Election Only: $5,234* L
*Annual licensing fees of $10,000 will be shared by all municipalities that select Rank
Choice Voting (RCV). If your jurisdiction alone were to select this option, you would solely
bear all licensing costs associated with RCV, in addition to the estimated costs above.
