MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO.: 2023-08-02 DATE: August 22, 2023
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL APPROVING AN EMPLOYMENT
AGREEMENT BETWEEN MAGNA METRO
TOWNSHIP AND DAVID BRICKEY AS THE MAGNA
METRO TOWNSHIP CITY MANAGER
WHEREAS, The Magna Metro Township ("Magna") is a Metro Township pursuant to
Utah Code § 10-2a-401 et seq, and
WHEREAS, The Magna Metro Township Council ("Council") is a Metro Township
Council pursuant to Utah Code §10-3b-504, with the Mayor acting as Chair of the
Council pursuant to Utah Code §10-3b-503, and
WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township Council decided to hire a full-time City
Manager; and
WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township Council conducted a search for a City
Manager; and
WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township Council desires to enter into an employment
agreement with David Brickey as the Magna Metro Township City Manager; and
WHEREAS, the attached employment agreement was negotiated between David
Brickey and the Magna Metro Township Council.
THEREFOR BE IT RESOLVED by the Magna Metro Township Council, as follows:
1. The Council approves and adopts the attached employment agreement between
Magna Metro Township Council and David Brickey as the Magna Metro Township
City Manager, marked Attachment "A" to this resolution, for the benefit of Magna,
and authorizes the Mayor to sign the same.
2. The Resolution shall take effect immediately.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Magna, Utah this 22"¢ day of August 2023.

MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP:
DAN W. PEAY, MAY01

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

ATTEST PAUL H. ASHTON
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY

TE CHAPMA
ALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK

METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER

VOTING BY COUNCIL:

MAYOR DAN PEAY voting yes

TRISH HULL voting yes

ERIC BARNEY voting yer

STEVE PROKOPIS voting yer

AUDREY PIERCE voting yes

MAGNA CITY MANAGER EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
Au ust
This EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) is executed this 22. day of duly 2023,
between the Magna Metro Township (“Employer’’) and David Brickey, (“Employee”).
RECITALS

WHEREAS, the Employer, by and through its elected Metro Township Council, desires to employ

the services of David Brickey as City Manager of the Magna Metro Township, and

WHEREAS, Employee desires to accept full-time employment as City Manager of the Magna

Metro Township;

WHEREAS, as of the effective date of this Agreement, Employee is the only full-time employee

of Employer, and will need to assist Employer is developing the policies and procedures needed

for employment of employees, and

WHEREAS, Employer and Employee have agreed to utilize the services of the Greater Salt Lake

Municipal Services District ("MSD"), to handle Employee's employment status until such time as

Employer can set up its own policies and procedures for employees, including but not limited to

running compensation and payment of expenses and benefits through the MSD, and

WHEREAS, the MSD has adopted an "at-will" policy and procedure process for certain MSD

employees, and

WHEREAS, Employee has agreed to abide by such MSD "at-will" policies and procedures,

Employer shall utilize such policies and procedures until such time as Employer formally adopts

its own policies and procedures, which Employee will assist in preparing, and

WHEREAS, the Employer desires, in addition to the foregoing, to provide through this

Agreement, certain specific benefits, to establish conditions of employment, and to set forth

working conditions of Employee, which benefits and conditions will supersede any contrary

provisions in the MSD policies and procedures.
AGREEMENT

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, which is adopted by reference herein,

and of the respective covenants and agreements of the parties contained in this Agreement, the

parties hereto agree as follows:

1. Position and Duties. Employer hereby agrees to employ David Brickey as City Manager
to perform functions and duties as specified and to perform other legally permissible and
proper duties and functions as the Mayor and Magna Metro Township Council (“Council”)
shall assign. Without limiting the duties and functions, Employee acknowledges and
accepts as part of his responsibilities to fulfill those duties and functions set forth in the
advertisement for the position, the listing of which is attached hereto, marked Attachment
"A," and by this reference made a part hereof.

2. Employment; Term. The Employer hereby agrees to employ Employee, and Employee
hereby agrees to serve the Employer, on the terms and conditions set forth herein. Subject
to the termination provisions set forth below, the term of this Agreement shall commence
on July 1, 2023 (the “Effective Date”) and shall continue until terminated by the Employee
or by the Employer. All terms of this Agreement shall apply retroactively to the Effective
Date.

a. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Employee agrees to remain
an exclusive employee of Employer until July 1, 2028, unless Employer agrees to
the contrary, in which case Section 6 shall apply.

b. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent, limit, or otherwise interfere with the right
of the Council to terminate the services of Employee at any time, subject to the
provisions of Section 5 of this Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing,
Employee is an " at-will" employee of the City, whose employment may be
terminated at any time with or without cause by the Governing Body of the City.
Employee’ s base salary pay shall be discontinued upon termination without
additional compensation owed to Employee, other than for hours worked and
unpaid up to the date of termination. Additional compensation due employee upon
termination, if any, shall be limited to severance pay defined in Section 5.

c. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent, limit, or otherwise interfere with the right
of the Employee to resign at any time from the position with Employer, subject to
provisions of Section 6 of this Agreement.

3. Suspension. Employer may suspend Employee with full pay and benefits at any time
during the term of this Agreement, under the following conditions:

a. A majority of the Council and Employee agree, or

b. After a public hearing in which the majority of the Council votes to suspend
Employee.

4. Compensation. Employer agrees to pay Employee an annual base salary of $175,000 as
of July 1, 2023. In addition, Employer agrees to increase Employee’s annual base salary
and benefits in such amounts and to such extent as the Council determines appropriate
based on the annual salary review of Employee.

5. Termination and Severance Pay.

a. In the event the Council terminates Employee prior to the expiration of the term of
the Agreement, Employer agrees to pay Employee a lump sum cash payment equal
to six months’ of base salary. In addition, Employee is entitled to accrued vacation
leave, paid in a lump sum, and continuation of all benefits except payment of URS-
related retirement benefits, for a period equal to the number of months' severance
pay which Employee is eligible to receive upon termination.

b. Notwithstanding Section 5(a), in the event Employee is terminated for cause,
Employer shall have no obligation to pay the aggregate severance sum designated

in Section 5(a). For purposes of this agreement termination for cause shall occur

when:

(i) Employee is convicted of a public offense which is punishable as a class B
misdemeanor. This provision shall not apply to traffic offenses which are
punishable as a class B misdemeanor, unless the offense involves alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance as an element
of the public offense, such as ( without limitation) driving under the
influence of alcohol or controlled substance/ controlled substance
metabolite.

(ii) Employee is convicted of any public offence, whether related to traffic
regulations or not, which is punishable as a class A misdemeanor, a felony,
or other crime involving moral turpitude.

(iii) | Employee has inappropriately used of narcotics or alcohol in violation of
the MSD or Magna policy or state or federal law.

(iv) | Employee has Breached a material term of this Agreement or has refused to
substantially perform his obligations and duties under this Agreement and
Employee (a) has failed to remedy the alleged breach caused by such
conduct within 30 days from the date written notice is given by the Mayor
demanding that Employee remedy the alleged breach caused by such
conduct, or (b) has failed to take reasonable steps in good faith to achieve a
remedy during such 30- day period, if a remedy is not reasonably achievable
within the 30-day period; provided that after the end of such 30- day
Employer will deliver to the Employee a certified copy of a resolution of
the Council, taken at a meeting of the Governing Body at which the
Employee, together with his counsel, is given the opportunity to be heard,
finding that the Employee was guilty of refusing to substantially perform
his obligations and duties under this Agreement and specifying the details
thereof, and that the Employee has failed to take reasonable steps in good
faith to remedy the alleged breach caused by such conduct;

(v) | Employee has committed or aided and abetted willful fraud or defalcation,
either of which involved funds or other assets of Magna, or committees or
organizations thereof.

, (vi) Employee has committed malfeasance in office or willful or wanton neglect
of duty.
C. If Employee is terminated without cause, Employer agrees to provide for out
placement services to Employee at Employer’s expense, in an amount not to exceed $5,000.
6. Resignation. With approval of the Mayor, Employee may voluntarily resign the
Employee’s position with Employer prior to the expiration of the term of this Agreement
upon giving Employer six weeks written notice. In such an event, Section 5(a) does not
apply unless the parties agree otherwise.

Ty Disability. If Employee is permanently disabled or is otherwise unable to perform the
Employee’s duties because of sickness, accident, injury, mental incapacity or health for a
period of six successive weeks, beyond any accrued sick leave, Employer shall have the
option to terminate the Agreement, subject to the severance pay requirements in Section
5(a).

8. Performance Evaluation.

a. The Council shall annually review and evaluate the performance of Employee, prior
to the adoption of the annual operating budget. The annual review and evaluation
shall be in accordance with specific criteria developed jointly by Employer and
Employee. With the consultation with Employee, the criteria may be added to or
deleted from as the Council may determine necessary.

b. The Mayor shall provide Employee with a summary written statement of the
findings of the Council and provide an adequate opportunity for Employee to
discuss the Employee's evaluation with the Council.

Cc. Annually, the Council and Employee shall define goals and performance objectives
that they determine are necessary for the proper operation of the Magna Metro
Township. The Council and Employee shall, in writing, establish a priority among
these goals and objectives, that must also be generally attainable within the time
and budget limitations.

d. In effecting the provisions of this Agreement, the Council and Employee mutually
agree to abide by the provisions of applicable laws.

9. Hours of Work. It is recognized that Employee must devote a great deal of time outside
the normal office hours to perform Employee's responsibilities as city manager. Employer
recognizes the Employee is an educated and trained professional and as such, consistent
with the nature of the requirements of the position of City Manager, working hours will
vary. It is understood that the Employee must devote a great deal of time outside of normal
office hours attending to the business of the City. The Employee shall be allowed to
schedule time as Employee deems appropriate to accommodate the varying demands of
such job required activities and evening meetings, Council meetings, legislative lobbying
activities, and necessary weekend and holiday work.

10. Outside Activities. Employee shall not spend more than 10 hours per week, consulting or
undertaking other non-Employer connected business without the prior approval of the
Council. Notwithstanding this provision, no outside work shall be undertaken where it
might give rise to a conflict of interest or otherwise interfere with Employee's duties to
Employer.

11. MSD Benefits and Participation. As noted in the recitals to this Agreement, Employee
will be dealt with as an employee of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
("MSD") and will be entitled to the benefits available top other management personnel of
the MSD. Employer will reimburse the MSD for the costs incurred by the MSD for the
provision of such benefits, together with Employee's salary. Without limiting the benefits

provided, the benefits Employee will be entitled to shall include vacation and sick leave,

disability and health insurance, and retirement enrollment under the Utah Retirement

System. Employee will work to create Magna's own benefit and payroll plan so at or before

January 1, 2024, Employee's employment with MSD can be voluntarily terminated and he

and any other employees of Magna can transition to Magna. If there are questions as to

what benefit costs will be reimbursed by Magna to the MSD and what costs are borne by

Employee, those questions shall be resolved by the Mayor with, where practical, the advice

and consent of the Council. This Agreement shall be amended, at the time of transition, to

reflect the newly adopted benefit plan and policies of Magna.

12. Vacation and Sick Leave. See Section 11.

13. Disability, Health, and Life Insurance. See Section 11.

14. Retirement. See Section 11. Employer has signed up with the Utah Retirement System
("URS") and will at such time as Employee transitions from MSD to Magna employment
will ensure Employee continued enrollment in the URS system and to make all appropriate
contributions on the Employee's behalf upon the Employee's request.

15. Dues and Subscriptions. Employer agrees to budget for and to pay for professional dues
and subscriptions of Employee necessary for the continuation and full participation in
national, regional, state, and local associations, and organizations necessary and desirable
for the Employee's continued professional participation, growth, and advancement, and for
the good of Employer. Without limiting the foregoing, Employer desires Employee to
continue to maintain his Active Status with the Utah State Bar and will reimburse
Employee his dues and fees to maintain that status, including reasonable charges for

. continuing legal education requirements.

16. Professional Development.

a. Employer agrees to budget for and to pay for travel and subsistence expenses of
Employee for professional and official travel, meetings, and occasions adequate to
continue the professional development of Employee and to adequately pursue
necessary official functions of Employer, including but not limited to: the Utah
League of Cities and Towns conventions, and such other national, regional, state,
and local governmental groups and committees thereof which Employee serves as
a member.

b. Employer also agrees to budget for and to pay for travel and subsistence expenses
of Employee for short courses, institutes, and seminars that are necessary for
professional development and for the good of Employer.

17. Computer and Cell Phone Purchase. Employer will provide Employee with a computer,
software, and other necessary equipment required for Employee to perform the job and to
maintain communication. Employer will also provide a cell phone to use as the City
Manager and will work with Employee to ensure telephone service at the Webster Center
for the conducting of Magna business.

18. General Expenses. Employer recognizes that certain expenses of a non-personal and
generally job-affiliate nature are incurred by Employee, and agrees to reimburse or to pay
general expenses, and disburse funds on receipt of receipts, statements, or personal
affidavits.

19. Automobile. Employer will provide Employee an automobile allowance in the amount of
$350.00 per month in lieu of milage reimbursement.

20. Civic Club Membership. Employer recognizes the importance of representation in and
before local civic and other organizations. Employee is authorized to become a member of
civic clubs or organizations, and Employer will pay all expenses associated with the clubs
and organizations. Employee will report to Employer on each membership that has been
taken out at Employer's expense.

21. Indemnification. In addition to the requirements of state and local laws, Employer shall
defend, save harmless, and indemnify Employee against any tort, professional liability
claim or demand, or other legal action, whether groundless or otherwise, arising out an
alleged act or omission occurring in the performance of Employee's duties as city manager.

~ Employer may compromise and settle any such claim or suit and pay the amount of any
settlement or judgment rendered.

22. Bonding. Employer shall bear the full cost of any fidelity or other bonds required of
Employee under any law or ordinance.

23. Other Terms and Conditions of Employment.

a. The Council, in consultation with the Mayor, shall fix any such other terms and
conditions of employment, as it may determine from time to time, relating to the
performance of Employee, provided such terms and conditions are not inconsistent
with or in conflict with the provisions of this Agreement, Magna Metro Township
ordinance or any other law.

b. All provisions of Utah Code, Magna Metro Township Code, and Magna Metro
Township Policy and Procedures to be developed by Employee for approval of the
Council in future relating to vacation and sick leave, retirement and pension system
contributions, holidays, and other benefits and working conditions as they now
exist or hereafter may be amended, also shall apply to Employee as they would to
other employees of Employer, in addition to benefits specifically provided for the
benefit of Employee in this Agreement.

24. No Reduction of Benefits. Subject to the transition of Employee from the MSD to Magna,
Employer shall not at any time during the term of this Agreement reduce the salary,
compensation or other financial benefits of Employee, except to the degree of such a
reduction for all employees of Employer.

25. Notices.

Notices pursuant to the Agreement shall be given by U.S. Postal Service, to the following:

EMPLOYER: EMPLOYEE:

Magna Metro Township David Brickey

8952 West Magna Main Street 1729 Nevada Street

Magna, UT 84044 Salt Lake City, UT 84108
26. General Provisions.

a. The Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement between the patties.

b. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the heirs at law
and executors of Employee.

c. This Agreement shall become effective commencing July 1, 2023.

d. If any provision, or any portion thereof, contained in this Agreement is held
unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement, or
portion thereof, shall be deemed severable, shall remain in full force and effect.

Magna Metro Township and David Brickey have read and understand the terms of this City
Manager Employment Agreement. Both Parties have demonstrated their willingness to enter into
the Agreement as of the date above by having their Authorized representatives sign below.
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
Date ZZ , L023 x ued VA é, - Z
Dan Peay, Mayor er
(
APPROVED AS TO FORM: ATTEST:
Patil Ashton, te’ A ; \
\
Date 22 Arey, ul L003 ) KS,
David Brickey

ATTACHMENT "A"

FULL-TIME ADMINISTRATOR FOR MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
Magna Metro Township was incorporated in 2017 and is currently experiencing explosive growth with a
population of approximately 30,000. During the 2023 election, the question will be added to the ballot of
becoming a City. As such the Township is seeking a strategic leader with experience and a clear vision of
the future of Magna to join our team as a Full-Time Administrator.
In this role, you will play a critical role in shaping the future of our community. You will work closely with
elected officials, staff from the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District and community leaders to
develop and implement strategies that support the growth and development of our city. You will also be
responsible for building and maintaining strong relationships with residents, businesses, and other
stakeholders.
EXAMPLES OF DUTIES TO BE PERFORMED

e Advises the Council on a variety of Metro Township issues and assists in developing policies
to address identified issues as directed by the Mayor and Council.

e Coordinates with legal staff to perform paralegal work and provide administrative
recommendations to ordinances and resolutions deemed necessary and appropriate for the
best interest of the Metro Township.

e Develop, plan, and communicate Council-approved Metro Township goals and objectives to
the municipal service providers and the public.

e Under the direction of the Mayor, represents the interest of the Metro Township before
federal, state, county, other governmental agencies, and community organizations.

e Provides administrative guidance and communicates expected community standards of
service to the municipal service providers performing work for benefit of the Metro
Township.

e Coordinates with Council fiscal staff, MSD fiscal staff, and Mayor to develop the Metro
Township’s Annual Budget and provides guidance to the Council as to the administration of
the Metro Township Budget.

e Performs special projects for the Council on an “as-requested” basis.

e Make recommendations to the Mayor and Council on hiring contract personnel to complete
administrative tasks (i.e., cemetery administration, information technology, etc.)

e Prepare agendas and meeting packets including creating ordinances, resolutions, and other
items for consideration by the Council.

e If appointed by the Council, may function as a Hearing Officer for certain matters.

e Assists the Chair during public meetings as the parliamentarian to the Council. )

e Attends all regular and special meetings of the Council as required.
