MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO.: 19-08-02 DATE: August 27, 2019
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
APPROVING AN INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
BETWEEN MAGNA AND SALT LAKE COUNTY FOR THE PROVISION
OF PERSONNEL FOR THE MAGNA “COMMUNITY THAT CARES”
PROGRAM
RECITALS

A. The Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) is a municipality pursuant to Utah Code §§ 10-2a-401

| et seq.

B. The Magna Metro Township Council (the “Council’) is the municipal legislative body for
Magna pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-501.

C. Salt Lake County (the “County”) is a County pursuant to Utah Code Title 17 — “COUNTIES.”

D. The County, as a part of its Human Services portfolio, provides certain Youth Service
Programs for Youth Substance Abuse Prevention and Control.

E. As apart of the Council meeting on July 9, 2019, the Council approved the grant agreement of
a Substance Abuse Grant of $88,000 to commence the creation of the Magna “Community
That Cares” Program (the “Program”.

F. As the next step in the creation of the program, Magna desires to use the approved grant
funding to contract with Salt Lake County Youth Services for the services of a person to
manage the program.

G. Pursuant to Magna’s desires, Salt Lake County has offered the attached Interlocal Cooperation
Agreement to Magna for that purpose (“Exhibit A”).

RESOLUTION
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Council hereby approves, and authorizes the Mayor to
sign, the attached Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with Salt Lake County hereinafter known as
Exhibit A, subject to approval as to form, to procure the services of an employee of Salt Lake
County Youth Services to manage the Magna “Community That Cares” Program.
, 7
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Magna, Salt Lake County, Utah this day of
AUGUST, 2019.
FOR THE MAGNA — TOWNSHIP:

ATTEST DAN W. PEAY, MAYOR, /

d * g APPROVED AS TO FORM:

SHERRIE SWENSEN - ~

SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK ;

METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER Jute

PAUL H. ASHTON
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY

VOTING:
COUNCILMEMBER HULL fete
MAYOR PEAY frye
COUNCILMEMBER PEEL pte
COUNCILMEMBER PROKOPIS Ate

County Contract No.
DA No. 19-14079-
INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT
between
SALT LAKE COUNTY
and
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP

for supporting a successful Communities that Care Coalition in Magna Metro Township

THIS AGREEMENT is between SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body corporate and politic
of the State of Utah on behalf of Salt Lake County Youth Services (“County”) and MAGNA
METRO TOWNSHIP (“Contractor”). County and Contractor may be referred to jointly as the
“Parties.”

RECITALS

WHEREAS, County and Magna are public agencies as defined by Title 11, Chapter 13,
Utah Code Ann. (the “Interlocal Act”). Section 11-13-202 of the Interlocal Act provides that any
two or more public agencies may enter into an agreement with one another to provide services that
they are each authorized by statute to provide; and

WHEREAS, County desires to enter into this Agreement with Contractor for the purpose
of supporting a successful Communities that Care Coalition in Magna Metro Township; and

THEREFORE, in exchange for valuable consideration, including the mutual covenants
contained in this Agreement, the Parties covenant and agree as follows:
1. SCOPE OF SERVICES
Contractor shall:

e Provide a written job description specifying the desired knowledge, skills, and abilities
and minimum qualifications for a successful Communities that Care Coalition
Coordinator (“Coordinator”).

e Provide the requisite training for a Coordinator to fulfill their duties as specified in the job
description.

e Pay the travel expenses of the Coordinator incurred while performing the duties associated
with the Coordinators responsibilities.

e Work closely with County to set priorities for the Coordinator’s efforts.

County shall:

e Incollaboration with Contractor, hire a time-limited 1.0 FTE Coordinator to receive a take-

home salary of no less than $42,000.00 and whose total salary and benefits package will
1

not exceed $74,028.00.
e Perform personnel management functions including, but not limited to: hiring, supervision,
disciplinary action, time management, etc.
, e Provide office space and equipment for Coordinator.
e Assist Contractor with the necessary training of the Coordinator.
e Work closely with appointed representative from Magna Metro Township to set priorities
for the Coordinator’s efforts.
e Communicate regularly on progress, challenges, and changes to implementation of Magna
Metro Township Coalition’s goals.
2. EFFECTIVE DATE/TERM
This Agreement shall be effective as of the _— day of , 2019 and shall
terminate on the _ day of (“Term”). This Agreement may be renewed by a
written amendment on an annual basis according to its existing terms. The maximum length of this ,
Agreement and subsequent renewals is__ day of , 2023.
3. TERMINATION
The Parties reserve the right to terminate this Agreement, in whole or in part, at any time
during the Term or any Additional Terms whenever the terminating party determines, in its sole
discretion that it is in the terminating party’s interest to do so. If a Party elects to exercise this
right, the terminating party shall provide written notice to the other Party at least 30 (thirty) days
prior to the date of termination for convenience. The Parties agree that termination for convenience
will not be deemed a termination for default nor will it entitle either Party to any rights or remedies
provided by law or this Agreement for breach of contract or any other claim or cause of action.
4, CONSIDERATION
Contractor shall provide an annual total amount of $74,028.00 payable to County in
quarterly reimbursement payments of $18,507.00. County shall provide an invoice to Contractor
on a quarterly basis for the $18,507.00 quarterly reimbursement payment and Contractor shall
remit payment to County within 30 days of receipt.
5. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR AND TAXES
The relationship of County and Contractor under this Agreement shall be that of an
independent contractor status. Each party shall have the entire responsibility to discharge all of the
obligations of an independent contractor under federal, state and local law, including but not limited
to, those obligations relating to employee supervision, benefits and wages; taxes; unemployment
compensation and insurance; social security; worker’s compensation; disability pensions and tax
withholdings, including the filing of all returns and reports and the payment ofall taxes, assessments
and contributions and other sums required of an independent contractor. Nothing contained in this
2

Agreement shall be construed to create the relationship between County and Contractor of employer
and employee, partners or joint ventures’.

The Parties agree that Contractor’s obligations under this Agreement are solely to the
County. This Agreement shall not confer any rights to third Parties unless otherwise expressly
provided for under this Agreement.

6. AGENT
No agent, employee or servant of Contractor or County is or shall be deemed to be an

employee, agent or servant of the other party. None of the benefits provided by each party to its
employees, including but not limited to workers' compensation insurance, health insurance and
unemployment insurance, are available to the employees, agents, or servants of the other party.
Contractor and County shall each be solely and entirely responsible for its acts and for the acts of
its agents, employees, and servants during the performance of this Agreement. Contractor and
County shall each make all commercially reasonable efforts to inform all persons with whom they
are involved in connection with this Agreement that both are independent contractors.
7. COUNTY REPRESENTATIVE

County shall designate an employee and make know to the Contractor the name and title of
this employee within it organization who is authorized to act as County’s Representative to assist
in the administrative management of this Agreement and to coordinate performance of the services
to be provided by Contractor under this Agreement.
8. CONTRACTOR REPRESENTATIVE

Contractor shall designate an employee and make known to the County the name and title
of this employee within its organization who is authorized to act as Contractor’s representative in
its performance of this Agreement. Contractor’s representative shall have the responsibility of
working with the County to coordinate the performance of its obligations under this Agreement.
9. NOTICES

All notices to be given under this Agreement shall be made in writing and shall be deemed
given upon personal delivery, upon the next business day immediately following the day sent if
sent by overnight express carrier, or upon the third business day following the day sent if sent
postage prepaid by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the Parties at the
following addresses (or to such other address or addresses as shall be specified in any notice given):

3

COUNTY: Contracts Administrator
Salt Lake County
2001 South State, Suite, N4-500
Salt Lake City, Utah 84190-3100
With a copy to: Salt Lake County Youth Services
177 West Price Avenue
Salt Lake City, UT 84115
CONTRACTOR Magna Metro Township
8952 W. Magna Main Street
Magna, UT 84044
10. SEVERABILITY
In the event that any condition, covenant or other provision hereof is held to be invalid or
void, the same shall be deemed severable from the remainder of this Agreement and shall in no
way affect any other covenant or condition herein contained. If such condition, covenant, or other
provision shall be deemed invalid due to its scope or breadth, such provision shall be deemed valid
to the extent of the scope or breadth permitted by law.
11. NON-DISCRIMINATION
Contractor and County agree that no person shall be subject to unlawful discrimination on
the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, veteran status or disability, or any other
basis protected by law in connection with the obligations of each party under this Agreement.
12. ETHICAL STANDARDS
Contractor represents that it has not: (a) provided an illegal gift or payoff to any County
officer or employee, or former County officer or employee, or to any relative or business entity of
a County officer or employee, or relative or business entity of a former County officer or employee;
(b) retained any person to solicit or secure this contract upon an agreement or understanding for a
commission, percentage, brokerage or contingent fee, other than bona fide employees of bona fide
commercial agencies established for the purpose of securing business; (c) breached any of the
ethical standards set forth in State statute or Salt Lake County's Ethics Code, Chapter 2.07, Salt
Lake County Code of Ordinances, 2001; or (d) knowingly influenced, and hereby promises that it
will not knowingly influence, any County officer or employee or former County officer or
employee to breach any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute or Salt Lake County
ordinances.
4

13. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS

Each party agrees to comply with all federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations in
the performance of its duties and obligations under this Agreement. Any violation by Contractor
of applicable law, rule or regulation, shall constitute an event of default under this Agreement.
Contractor is responsible, at its sole expense, to acquire, maintain and renew during the term of
this Agreement, all necessary permits and licenses required for its lawful performance of its duties
and obligations under this Agreement.
14. NON-ASSIGNMENT

Neither party shall assign, transfer, or contract for the furnishing of services to be
performed under this Agreement without the prior written approval of the other.
15. NON-FUNDING

If Contractor's performance or County's performance under this Agreement depends upon
the appropriation of funds by either the Utah Legislature or the Salt Lake County Council, and if
the legislating body fails to appropriate the funds necessary for the performance, then this
Agreement may be terminated by either party by providing written notice to the other party without
further obligation. Said termination shall not be construed as breach of or default under this
Agreement and said termination shall be without penalty, additional payments, or other charges to
County or Contractor of any kind whatsoever, and no right of action for damages or other relief
shall accrue to the benefit of County or Contractor, their successors or assigns, as to this
Agreement, or any portion thereof, which may so terminate and become null and void.
16. GOVERNING LAW

It is understood and agreed by the Parties hereto that this Agreement shall be governed by
the laws of the State of Utah and the ordinances of Salt Lake County, both as to interpretation and
performance. All actions, including but not limited to court proceedings, administrative
proceedings, arbitration and mediation proceedings, shall be commenced, maintained, adjudicated
and resolved within the jurisdiction of the State of Utah.
17. STANDARD OF PERFORMANCE/PROFESSIONALISM

Contractor acknowledges the standard of performance and professionalism required in the
performance of its services under this Agreement. Contractor agrees to perform the services under
this Agreement with the level of professionalism expected in its industry/profession in the
community. Further, Contractor, while performing its obligations under this Agreement, will
conduct itself in such a manner that will promote the best interests of the County. Contractor
further agrees that it will not accept any fee or financial remuneration from any entity or person
other than Salt Lake County for its performance under this Agreement.
5

18. INDEMNIFICATION

Both Parties are governmental entities under the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, §§
63G-7-101 to -904, as amended (the "Act"). There are no indemnity obligations between these
Parties. Subject to and consistent with the terms of the Act, County and Granite shall be liable for
their own negligent acts or omissions, or those of their authorized employees, officers, and agents
while engaged in the performance of the obligations under this Agreement, and neither County nor
Granite shall have any liability whatsoever for any negligent act or omission of the other Party, its
employees, officers, or agents. Neither Party waives any defenses or limits of liability available
under the Act and other applicable law. Both Parties maintain all privileges, immunities, and other
rights granted by the Act and all other applicable law.
19. INSURANCE

Both Parties to this Agreement shall maintain insurance or self-insurance coverage
sufficient to meet their obligations hereunder and consistent with applicable law.
20. NO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE INTEREST

It is understood and agreed that no officer or employee of the County has or shall have any
pecuniary interest, direct or indirect, in this Agreement or the proceeds resulting from the
performance of this Agreement, No officer or employee of Contractor or any member of their
families shall serve on any County board or committee or hold any such position which either by
rule, practice, or action nominates, recommends, or supervises Contractor's operations, or
authorizes funding or payments to Contractor.
21. CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS

The Salt Lake County campaign finance disclosure ordinance limits campaign
contributions by contractors to County candidates. Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances §
2.72A. Contractor acknowledges and understands those limitations on campaign contributions
mean that any person, business, corporation or other entity that enters into a contract or is engaged
in a contract with the County is prohibited from making campaign contributions in excess of $100
to County candidates during the term of the contract and during a single election cycle as defined
in the ordinance. Contractor further acknowledges that violation of those provisions governing
campaign contributions may result in criminal sanctions as well as termination of this Agreement.
22. GOVERNMENT RECORDS ACCESS MANAGEMENT ACT

Contractor acknowledges that County is a governmental entity subject to the Utah
Government Records Access and Management Act (“GRAMA”), Utah Code Ann. §§ 63G-2-101
to -901. As a result, County is required to disclose certain information and materials to the public,
upon request. Contractor agrees to timely refer all requests for documents, materials and data in

6

its possession relating to this Agreement and its performance to the County Representative for
response by County.

Generally, any document submitted to County is considered a “public record” under
GRAMA. Any person who provides to the County a record that the person believes should be
protected under subsection 63G-2-305(1) or (2) shall provide both: (1) a written claim of business
confidentiality and (2) a concise statement of reasons supporting the claim of business
confidentiality. Generally, GRAMA only protects against the disclosure of trade secrets or
commercial information that could reasonably be expected to result in unfair competitive injury.
23. CONFIDENTIALITY

Contractor shall hold all information provided to it by County for the purposes of its
performance of this Agreement, whether provided in written or other form, in strict confidence,
shall make no use thereof other than for the performance of the Agreement, and shall not release
any of said information to any third party, any member of Contractor’s firm who is not involved
in the performance of services under the Agreement, or to any representative of the news media
without prior written consent of County. Materials, information, data, reports, plans, analyses,
budgets and similar documentation provided to or prepared by Contractor in performance of this
Agreement shall also be held confidential by Contractor. County shall have the sole obligation or
privilege of releasing such information as required by law.

24. COUNTERPARTS

This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts and all so executed shall
constitute one agreement binding on all the Parties, notwithstanding that each of the Parties are
not signatory to the original or the same counterpart. Further, executed copies of this Agreement
delivered by facsimile shall be deemed an original signed copy of this Agreement.

25. INTERLOCAL COOPERATION ACT REQUIREMENTS

In satisfaction of the requirements of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, §§ 11-13-101 et
seq., and in connection with this Agreement, the parties agree as follows:

a. This Agreement shall be approved by each party pursuant to § 11-13-202.5;

b. This Agreement shall be reviewed as to the proper form and compliance with
applicable law by an authorized attorney on behalf of each party pursuant to §11-13-202.5;

c. An executed original counterpart shall be filed with the keeper of records for each
party pursuant to §11-13-209;

d. The term of this Agreement shall not exceed fifty (50) years pursuant to §11-13-
216 of the Interlocal Cooperation Act;

e. No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement. No real or
personal property shall be acquired jointly by the parties as a result of this Agreement. To the
extent that a party acquires, holds, or disposes of any real or personal property for use in the joint
or cooperative undertaking contemplated by this Agreement, such party shall do so in the same
manner that it deals with other property of such party; and

7

f. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each party shall be responsible
for its own costs of any action taken pursuant to this Agreement, and for any financing of such
costs.

26. ENTIRE AGREEMENT

County and Contractor acknowledge and agree that this Agreement constitutes the entire
integrated understanding between County and Contractor, and that there are no other terms,
conditions, representations or understanding, whether written or oral, concerning the rights and
obligations of the Parties to this Agreement except as set forth in this Agreement. This
Agreement may not be enlarged, modified or altered, except in writing, signed by the Parties.

8

| IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties execute this Agreement.
SALT LAKE COUNTY: ea oe “aaa Wie
By: By: LA VA A be¢
Mayor or Designee A
Date: Date: FG “SLPS <f 7
DEPARTMENTAL APPROVAL:
— APPROVAL AS TO FORM:
Salt Lake County Youth Services hs,
Director or Designee
PAUL H. ASHTON
Date: QT WN METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
APPROVED AS —Distalystenedby
TO FORM: Liam Liam M.Keogh 13606
M. Keogh 60
9
