MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO.: 21-09-05 DATE: September 28, 2021
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL APPROVING A CONTRACT BETWEEN
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP AND N&W
ENTERPRISES, LLC (NUNNY NICHOLES) FOR
PLEASANT GREEN CEMETERY CARETAKER
SERVICES
WHEREAS, The Magna Metro Township ("Magna") is a Metro Township pursuant to
Utah Code § 10-2a-401 et seq, and
WHEREAS, The Magna Metro Township Council ("Council") is a Metro Township
Council pursuant to Utah Code §10-3b-504, with the Mayor acting as Chair of the
Council pursuant to Utah Code §10-3b-503, and
WHEREAS, in March 2020, the Magna Metro Township purchases the Pleasant Green
Cemetery; and
WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township Council issued a Request for Proposal for
Cemetery Caretaker services; and
WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township Council desires to retain the services of
N&W Enterprises LLC (Nunny Nicholes) for Caretaker Services for the Pleasant Green
Cemetery; and
WHEREAS, the attached agreement was negotiated between N& W Enterprises LLC
(Nunny Nicholes) to provide Cemetery Caretaker services for the Pleasant Green
Cemetery in Magna, Utah,
THEREFOR BE IT RESOLVED by the Magna Metro Township Council, as follows:
1. The Council approves and adopts the attached contract for Pleasant Green Cemetery
Caretaker services from N&W Enterprises LLC (Nunny Nicholes), marked
Attachment "A" to this resolution, for the benefit of Magna, and authorizes the
Mayor to sign the same.
2. The Resolution shall take effect immediately.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Magna, Utah this 28" day of September 2021.
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP:
DAN W. PEAY, - OR
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
IT ES! PAUL Mega
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
Ny ere
SHERRIE SWENSEN
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER
VOTING BY COUNCIL:
MAYOR DAN PEAY voting Aye
TRISH HULL voting Aye
BRINT PEEL voting Aye
STEVE PROKOPIS voting Aye
AUDREY PIERCE voting Aye

ATTACHMENT “A"

MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP CONTRACT NO.
AGREEMENT BETWEEN
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
And
N&W ENTERPRISES LLC

THIS AGREEMENT (the “Agreement”) is made and entered into as of the last date set
forth on the signature page(s), whether signed in counterparts or otherwise, with an effective date
of September 20", 2021, by and between Magna Metro Township, a political subdivision of the
State of Utah (the “Metro Township”), and N&W Enterprises LLC, Nunny Nicholes, located at
78112 West 2820 South, Magna, UT 84044 (the “Company”). The Metro Township and
Company are sometimes referred to herein as the Parties.

NOW, THEREFORE, in exchange for valuable consideration, including without
limitations, the mutual covenants, agreements, and representations contained in this Agreement,
the receipt of which is acknowledged, Metro Township and Company, with the intent to be legally
bound, covenant and agree as follows:

1. SERVICES.

Under the direction of the Mayor and Metro Township Council, and with the assistance of the
Metro Township’s legal counsel and the Metro Township’s Municipal Administrator, the
Company will undertake and perform the work needed on behalf of the Pleasant Green Cemetery
to fulfill the Metro Township’s governance requirements, as more fully set forth in Attachment
“A” attached hereto.

2. CONSIDERATION.

A. Monthly Rate. The Metro Township agrees to pay the Company for the administrative

services for the Pleasant Green Cemetery described herein at the following rate:

-- $3,542.00 per month.

B. Services. All costs associated with providing caretaker services for the Pleasant Green
Cemetery will be billed as described in the attached fee schedule. The Company’s
Representative will consult the Metro Township Mayor prior to incurring any extraordinary
costs in their performance under this Agreement. If performance under this Agreement
requires Company to incur extraordinary costs, the parties will agree to the amount of those
costs prior to their incurring the costs.

C. Billing. The Company agrees to submit monthly a billing statement of all time spent on
behalf of the Metro Township and costs incurred under this Agreement. The monthly
billing will detail the date and nature of the services rendered. The Metro Township will
pay the billing statement upon receipt of the statement from the Company.

D. Annual Budget Limitation. For the purposes of Metro Township budgeting and fiscal
control, the Company agrees that its billable administrative service costs shall not exceed
$42,500 per calendar year. If, as a result of additional work needed, it becomes clear the
budget threshold shall be exceeded, the Company shall notify the Metro Township of the
situation and shall not perform such work until the situation is resolved. At the time of the
notification the Metro Township may budget, or make available through budget transfers,
additional funds for this Agreement, terminate the Agreement as provided below, or take
such other action, as it deems appropriate.

3. TERM.

This Agreement shall have a term of twelve months, unless otherwise terminated as set forth
below, with an option to renegotiate terms of the written agreement of both the Metro Township
and Company.

4. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR, TAXES OTHER WORK.

The relationship of Metro Township and Company under this Agreement shall be that of an
independent contractor status. Each party shall have the entire responsibility to discharge all of the
obligations of an independent contractor under federal, state, and local law, including but not
limited to, those obligations relating to employee supervision, benefits and wages; taxes;
unemployment compensation and insurance; social security; worker's compensation; disability
pensions and tax withholdings, including the filing of all returns and reports and the payment of

all taxes, assessments and contributions and other sums required of an independent contractor.
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to create the relationship between Metro
Township and Company of employer and employee, partner, or joint ventures. The parties agree
that Company’s obligations under this Agreement are solely to the Metro Township. This
Agreement shall not confer any rights to third parties, including the MSD or County, unless
otherwise agreed to by the parties.

5. INDEMNIFICATION.

Except to the extent paid in settlement from any applicable insurance policies, and to the extent
permitted by applicable law, each Party agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the other Party,
against any and all claims, losses, damages, liabilities, penalties, punitive damages, expenses,
reasonable legal fees, and costs of any kind or amount whatsoever, which result from or arise out
of any act or omission of the indemnifying party that occurs in connection with this Agreement.
This indemnification will survive the termination of this Agreement.

6. INSURANCE.

The Company shall provide proof of liability insurance coverage in the amount of One
Million ($1,000,000.00) dollars naming the Municipality as an additional insurer. Certificate of
Insurance is to be updated throughout the term of the Agreement and that copies are forwarded to
the Municipality upon renewal.

7. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND ACTS

The Company shall comply with all Federal, State and Municipal Laws, statues,
regulation, and bylaws, relevant to the contract including but not limited to:

e The Occupational Health and Safety Act

e Workplace Safety and Insurance Act

e Governmental Records Access and Management Act (GRAMA)

e Municipal Conflict of Interest
8. WORKERS' COMPENSATION

The Company will provide proof of Workers Compensation Insurance (Workers Comp)
coverage prior to work commencing in the form of a current and valid clearance certificate.

9. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY

The Company will ensure that all applicable health and safety laws and regulation are
adhered to during the performance of the contract.

10. ACCESSIBILITY COMPLIANCE WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES
ACT:

In deciding to purchase goods or services through the procurement process for the use of
itself, its employees or the public, the council of every municipality shall have regard to the
accessibility for persons with disabilities to the goods or services.

In addition, the Company and his/her employees must have the applicable training with
regards to applicable ADA Standards. Training must be completed prior to commencement of
the agreement.

11. ASSIGNMENTS

No portion of the work under the award may be subcontracted without the authorization

of the Municipality.
12. FUNERAL, BURIAL AND CREMATION SERVICES

The Company is responsible to complying with Utah Code Ann. Title 8 - CEMETERIES.
13. RESPONSIBILITY FOR EQUIPMENT AND DAMAGE

The Company will be held responsible for all damage which may occur to equipment
used in the performance of the work and services required hereunder due to the faulty operation
or usage on the part of himself or his employee.

The Company will also be held responsible for any damage caused to Municipal Lands or
its contents where such damage may be attributed to the use of equipment or materials of any
kind by the contractor or his/her employees. All such damage shall be made good by new
materials as required, to match existing work in kind, quality, and workmanship.

The Company shall provide and maintain adequate and suitable means to save the
Municipal Lands and its contents from injury, dust, and defacement during the progress of the
Contractor's work by means of approved protection where necessary or directed by the
Municipality.

The Company shall be responsible for promptly reporting to the Municipality any
damage caused by his/her employees to turf, trees, equipment, buildings, or
headstones/monuments located on the Municipal lands.

14. RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE CONTRACTOR'S EMPLOYEES

The Company shall insure that their employees are dressed in accordance with
Workplace Health & Safety regulations while performing work on Municipal Lands, and further
that the employees are dressed in an appropriate manner while working in a public atmosphere.
15. NON-FUNDING CLAUSE.

Metro Township shall pay for the services provided by the Company under this Agreement,
starting on the effective date of the Agreement. This Agreement shall create no obligation on the
Metro Township as to succeeding fiscal years and shall terminate and become null and void on the
last day of the fiscal year for which funds were budgeted and appropriated, except as to those
portions of payments agreed upon for which funds were appropriated and budgeted. Said
termination shall not be construed as a breach of this Agreement or any event of default under this
Agreement and said termination shall be without penalty, whatsoever, and no right of action for
damages or other relief shall accrue to the benefit of the Company, its successors, or its assigns,
as to this Agreement, or any portion thereof, which may terminate and become null and void. If
Metro Township does not appropriate funds for a succeeding fiscal year to fund performance under
this Agreement, the Metro Township shall promptly notify Company of said non-funding and the
termination of this Agreement, and in no event, later than 30 days prior to the expiration of the
fiscal year for which funds were appropriated.

16. AGENCY.

No agent, employee or servant of the Company or Metro Township is or shall be deemed to be
an employee, agent, or servant of the other party. None of the benefits provided by each party to
its employees, including but not limited to worker's compensation insurance, health insurance and
unemployment insurance, are available to the employees, agents, or servants of the other party.
The Company and Metro Township shall each be solely and entirely responsible for its acts and
for the acts of its agents, employees, and servants during the performance of this Agreement.
Company and Metro Township shall each make all commercially reasonable efforts to inform all

persons with whom they are involved in connection with this Agreement to be aware that the
Company is an independent contractor.
17. NO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE INTEREST.

It is understood and agreed that no officer or employee of the Metro Township has or shall
have any pecuniary interest, direct or indirect, in this Agreement or the proceeds resulting from
the performance of this Agreement. No officer or employee of the Company or any member of
their family shall serve on any Metro Township board or committee or hold any such position
which either by rule, practice, or action nominates, recommends, or supervises Company’s
operations, or authorizes funding or payments to the Company.

18. ETHICAL STANDARDS.

The Company represents that it has not: (a) provided an illegal gift or payoff to any Metro
Township, officer or employee, or former Metro Township officer or employee, or to any relative
or business entity of a Metro Township officer or employee, or relative or business entity of a
former Metro Township officer or employee; (b) retained any person to solicit or secure this
contract upon an agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage or
contingent fee, other than bona fide employees of bona fide commercial agencies established for
the purpose of securing business; (c) breached any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute
or Metro Township adopted Ethics Code Chapter 2.07; or (d) knowingly influenced, and hereby
promises that it will not knowingly influence, any Metro Township officer or employee or former
Metro Township officer or employee to breach any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute
or Metro Township ordinances.

19. CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS.

The Metro Township adopted campaign finance disclosure ordinance limits campaign
contributions by contractors to Metro Township candidates. The Company acknowledges and
understands those limitations on campaign contributions mean that any person, business,
corporation, or other entity that enters into a contract or is engaged in a contract with the Metro
Township is prohibited from making campaigning contributions in excess of $100.00 to Metro
Township candidates during the term of the contact and during a single election cycle as defined

in the ordinance. The Company further acknowledges that violation of those provisions governing
campaign contributions may result in criminal sanctions as well as termination of this Agreement.
20. PUBLIC FUNDS AND PUBLIC MONIES.

Definitions: "Public funds" and "public monies" mean monies, funds, and accounts, regardless
of the source from which they are derived, that are owned, held, or administered by the state or
any of its boards, commissions, institutions, departments, divisions, agencies, bureaus,
laboratories, or other similar instrumentalities, or any county, city, school district, political
subdivision, or other public body. The terms also include monies, funds or accounts that have been
transferred by any of the aforementioned public entities to a private contract provider for public
programs or services. Said funds shall maintain the nature of "public funds" while in the
Company’s possession. The Company, as recipient of "public funds" and "public monies" pursuant
to this and other contracts related hereto, expressly understands that he is obligated to receive, keep
safe, transfer, disburse and use these "public funds" and "public monies" as authorized by law and
this Agreement for the provision of services to the Metro Township. The Company understands
that he may be criminally liable for misuse of public funds or monies. The Company expressly
understands that Metro Township may monitor the expenditure of public funds by the Company.
The Company expressly understands that Metro Township may withhold funds or require
repayment of funds from the Company for contract noncompliance, failure to comply with
directives regarding the use of public funds, or for misuse of public funds or monies.

21. TERMINATION.

A. Termination for Default. Metro Township may terminate this Agreement for an "Event of
Default" as defined, upon written notice from Metro Township to Company.

B. Termination by Company for Default. The Company may terminate this Agreement for an
Event of Default upon written notice from Attorney to Metro Township.

C. Event of Default. As used in this Agreement, the term "Event of Default" means (a) a party
fails to make any payment hereunder when the same becomes due and such failure
continues for a period of thirty (30) days after written notice to the party filling to make
such payment; (b) a party hereto fails to perform any of its material obligations and such
failure continues for a period of thirty (30) days after written notice to such defaulting

party; or (c) any material representation or warranty of a party contained in this Agreement
proves to be untrue or incorrect in any material respect when made.

D. Force Majeure. Neither party shall be liable for a failure to perform any excess costs if the
failure to perform arises from causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence
of that party, e.g., acts of God, fires, floods, strikes, or unusually severe weather. If such
condition continues for a period in excess of 60 days, Company or Metro Township shall
have the right to terminate this Agreement without liability or penalty effective upon
written notice to the other party.

E. No Limitation of Rights. The rights and remedies of the Parties hereto are in addition to
any other rights and remedies provided by law or under this Agreement. The Parties agree
that the waiver of any breach of this Agreement by either party shall in no event constitute
a waiver as to any future breach.

F. Termination for Convenience. Metro Township reserves the right to terminate this
Agreement, in whole or in part, at any time during the Term or any Additional Terms
whenever Metro Township determines, in its sole discretion that it is in the Metro
Township's interest to do so. If Metro Township elects to exercise this right, Metro
Township shall provide written notice to the Company at least thirty (30) days prior to the
date of termination for convenience. Upon such termination, Company shall be paid for all
services up to the date of termination. Company agrees that the Metro Township’s
termination for convenience will not be deemed a termination for default nor will it entitle
Company to any rights or remedies provided by law or this Agreement for breach of
contract by the Metro Township or any other claim or cause of action.

The Parties agree that the waiver of any breach of this Agreement by either party shall in no

event constitute a waiver as to any future breach.
22. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.

Each party agrees to comply with all federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations in the
performance of its duties and obligations under this Agreement. Any violation by Company of
applicable law, rule, or regulation, shall constitute an event of default under this Agreement and
Company shall be liable for and hold the Metro Township harmless and defend the Metro

Township from and against any and all liability arising out of or connected with the violation, to
include all attorney fees and costs incurred by the Metro Township as a result of the violation.
23. NON-DISCRIMINATION.

Company, and all persons acting on its behalf, agree that they shall comply with all federal,
state and County laws, rules ordinance and regulations governing discrimination and they shall not
discriminate in the engagement or employment of any professional person, or any other person
qualified to perform the services required under this Agreement.

24. LABOR REGULATIONS AND REOUIREMENTS.

The Company agrees to comply with all applicable provisions of Title 34 of the Utah Code,
and with all applicable federal, state, and local labor laws. The Company shall indemnify and hold
the Metro Township harmless from and against any and all claims for liability arising out of any
violation of this paragraph or the laws referenced by Company, its agents, or employees.

25. CONFIDENTIALITY.

Company shall hold all information provided to it by Metro Township for the purposes of
performance of this Agreement, whether provided in written or other form, in strict confidence,
shall make no use thereof other than for its representation of the Metro Township under this
Agreement, and shall not release any of said information to any third party, who is not involved in
the performance of services under the Agreement, or to any representative of the news media
without prior written consent of Metro Township.

26. GOVERNMENT RECORDS ACCESS MANAGEMENT ACT.

Company acknowledges that Metro Township is a governmental entity subject to the Utah
Government Records Access Management Act ("GRAMA"), Utah Code Ann. §§ 63G-2-101, et
seq. As a result, Metro Township is required to disclose certain information and materials to the
public, upon request. The Company agrees to timely refer all requests for documents, materials
and data in its possession relating to this Agreement and its performance to the Mayor of the Metro
Township with notice also being provided to legal counsel for the township, if any.

27. INTERPRETATION.

Metro Township and Company agree that where possible, each provision of this Agreement
shall be interpreted in such a manner as to be consistent and valid under applicable law; but if any
provision of this Agreement shall be invalid, prohibited, or unenforceable under applicable law,
such provision shall be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity or prohibition, without
invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this Agreement.

28. ASSIGNMENT.

Company shall not assign or transfer its duties of performance nor its rights to compensation
under this Agreement, without the prior written approval of Metro Township.
29. SUBCONTRACTING.

Company agrees that it shall not subcontract to provide any of the services under this,
Agreement or execute performance of its obligations under this Agreement without prior expressed
and written consent of Metro Township.

30. NOTICES.

All notices to be given under this Agreement shall be made in writing and shall be deemed
given upon personal delivery, upon the next business day immediately following the day sent if
sent by overnight express carrier, or upon the third business day following the day sent if sent
postage prepaid by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the Parties at the
following addresses (or to such other address or addresses as shall be specified in any notice given):

Metro Township: Dan W. Peay, Mayor
Magna Metro Township
8952 West Magna Main Street
Magna, UT 84044

Company: Nunny Nicholes
N&W Enterprises LLC
7811 West 2820 South
Magna, UT 84044

31. TIME.

The Parties stipulate that time is of the essence in the performance of this Agreement. The time

set forth for performance in this Agreement shall be strictly followed and any default in

performance according to the times required may be a default of this Agreement and be a cause
for termination of this Agreement and pursuit of any remedy allowed by this Agreement and by
law.

32. ENTIRE AGREEMENT.

Metro Township and Company acknowledge and agree that this Agreement constitutes the
entire integrated understanding between the parties, and that there are no other terms, conditions,
representations or understanding, whether written or oral, concerning the rights and obligations of
the Parties to this Agreement except as set forth in this Agreement, and any prior agreements,
representations or understandings by and between the parties from the effective date of this
Agreement shall be null and void. This Agreement may not be enlarged, modified, or altered,
except in writing, signed by the Parties.

33. GOVERNING LAW.

It is understood and agreed by the Parties hereto that the laws of the State of Utah and the
Ordinances of Metro Township, both as to interpretation and performance, shall govern this
Agreement. All actions, including but not limited to court proceedings, administrative proceedings,
arbitration, and mediation proceedings, shall be commenced, maintained, adjudicated and resolved
within the jurisdiction of the State of Utah.

34. DISPUTES.

Disputes. Any controversy, claim or dispute in the course and scope of this Agreement or its
breach, termination, enforcement, interpretation, or validity, including the determination of the
scope or applicability of this agreement to arbitrate, shall be determined by binding arbitration in
Salt Lake City, Utah, before a sole arbitrator. "Disputes" shall include, without limitation, those
involving fees, costs, billing, claims of negligence, and breach of ethical or fiduciary duties. The
American Arbitration Association (AAA) shall administer the arbitration pursuant to its
Commercial Arbitration Rules and Supplementary Procedures for Large, Complex Disputes. The
arbitration proceedings and record will be confidential and closed to the public. The arbitrator must
be a member in good standing of the Utah State Bar. The arbitrator shall, in the Award, allocate
all of the costs of the arbitration, including the fees of the arbitrator and the reasonable attorney's

fees of the prevailing party, against the party who did not prevail. Judgment on the Award may be
entered in any court having jurisdiction.
35. COUNTERPARTS.

This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, and all so executed shall constitute
one agreement binding on all the Parties, notwithstanding that each of the Parties are not signatory
to the original or the same counterpart. Further, executed copies of this Agreement delivered by
facsimile or scanned e-mail shall be deemed an original signed copy of this Agreement.

AGREED TO BY THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL ON THIS 28"! DAY
OF SEPTEMBER, 2021.

FOR THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
DAN W. Zags AYOR
Attest: APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Dh sb ssimem METRO Laas ATTORNEY
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER
AGREED BY COMPANY: f
pate: 4 | 2 $ | we, | SIGNATURE:

ATTACHMENT “A” — SCOPE OF WORK
SCOPE OF WORK — PLEASANT GREEN CEMETERY CARETAKER SERVICES
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES
Burials

To be responsible for managing all aspects of opening and closing burial sites, installation
of corner markers, cremation plaques, consulting with municipal staff and or funeral service
provider and scheduling installation of monuments with monument dealers.

The Company is responsible for all burial preparation. The Company is responsible for
identifying the location and excavating the ground to the appropriate size and depth for full casket
and urn burials. The Company will operate a tractor, backhoe and/or shovel to quickly remove
large amounts of dirt and rock and will also control the equipment used to carefully place caskets
or cremation urns into their graves. After the casket/urn has been put in place and the service has
concluded, the plot is filled, ground is mounded to allow for settling and compaction.

The Company requires 48 hours-notice for Monday through Friday burials. Saturday
burials have an additional cost of $200 when done before noon. Burials between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m.
on Saturday have an additional cost of $400. Notice of a Saturday burial must be received by 10
a.m. the Wednesday prior to the date of burial. No Sunday burial service.

Duties:
e Arranges grave opening and closing/restoration. Prepares grave sites for opening and
closing as required and with the use of a shovel to prepare cremation burials.
o Opening means: digging a hole which is 5°x48”x6’ for adult. 3°x48”x24” for
cremation.
o Closing means: covering a hole and mounding with dirt approximately 12” high
to accommodate the settling of the ground.
o The Company will close a grave within 2.5 hours after the completion of burial
services at the Cemetery.
o Costs for burials:
» Full adult burial $550
= Cremation burial $300
= Green Burial $600
e Any existing headstone(s) that will interfere with the opening of the burial site must be
removed within 24 hours prior to the dig, preferably by a Monument Company. All
existing fences, plot additions that interferes with a dig, will need to be removed by the
owners of the plat, 24 hours in advance of the dig.

o Fee for moving headstones: $100 resident; $200 Non-resident
e Due to the inconsistency of accuracy with existing graves, the Company may need to
open additional spots on the owners plots to accommodate the burial. Additional fees
may apply and will be determined on a case-by-case basis.
e Provide winter burial services as necessary
e Marks off and verifies monument installations
e Shall install granite markers for cremation plots and corner markers for full plots
e Repair grounds surrounding monuments when required
e Supplies all loading and unloading material to prepare an opening and closing for a grave
site
e Immediately following the interment and site cleanup
e Disposal of excess soil from interment openings must be placed in the designated areas
e Collects and distributes the proper paperwork following an interment (when necessary)
e Forwards all general inquiries from lot owners and the general public concerning
regulations and site locations to the Municipal Offices
e Confirms plot space upon request
e Provides all necessary equipment to perform these duties
e Approval of any necessary expenses must be obtained prior to any purchases
Location:
Pleasant Green Cemetery
9200 W 3500 South
Magna, UT 84044
GROUNDS MAINTENANCE

To be responsible for managing all aspects of keeping the grounds of the Cemeteries
clean, maintained, and attractive to enhance the sacred and suitable environment for visitors as a
respectful and peaceful eternal place of rest.

The Company will supply and use lawnmowers, hedge trimmers, clippers, and other
gardening tools on a regular basis, will supply and use lawnmowers, level ground around
monuments, trim trees, rake leaves, remove debris, and tend to overall ground maintenance.

The Company will perform three (3) clean-ups at the Cemetery. Clean-ups will consist of
mowing, cutting weeds, trash pickup, pruning or removal of dead trees and bushes that are not on
a plot owner’s space. The Company will preserve the natural habitat when possible. Dumpsters
and any associated fees will be provided by the Municipality.

Duties:
e Collects and removes litter or trash from the cemetery grounds
e Ensures that each Cemetery’s fences, gates, signage, and exterior of buildings are
maintained.

e Perform functions such as lawn mowing, pruning trees and/or removal, leaf removal and
trimming around all monuments assuring for timeliness and safety

e Cleanup of branches and other refuse

e Examines/evaluates cemetery plots and ground to determine what ground restoration
tasks (e.g., filling dirt for sunken graves, etc.) are needed to ensure a safe and respectable
cemetery environment. Any task beyond the ability of the groundskeeper to complete or
resolve will be reported to the Municipal Offices

e Provides all necessary equipment to perform these duties

e No ground maintenance shall be conducted while an interment/service is underway.

e Report any complaints or requests for services to the Municipal Administrator

ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITIES:

e Sell and record plot sales, issue deeds to owners using computer software and computers that
are owned by the Municipality. Municipality will maintain current version of software.

e Arrange for burials with funeral homes and collect payment accordingly.

e Mark plots for burials, and plot areas for owners at a cost of $50.00 each. Collecting payments
as necessary based on fee schedule set by the Municipality.

e Arrange with monument companies for headstone placement, and mark spot accordingly at
$50 each. Facilitate the payment from the monument company for said markings based on fee
schedule set by the Municipality.

e Record burials, using Municipality software and computers provided by the Municipality.

e Make suggestions to the Municipality of needed repairs, safety issues, improvements, and
ways to communicate with plot owners, funeral directors, and/or monument companies.

e Supply monthly updates on services rendered at a Council meeting.

e Supply the State of Utah annually with a list of all burials.
