MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO.: 20-06-04 DATE: June 23, 2020
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
| APPROVING AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN MAGNA AND D.R. HORTON,
| INC. FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF A STORM DRAIN PIPELINE AND
USE BY D.R. HORTON OF A MAGNA RAILROAD CROSSING
EASEMENT FROM UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD
RECITALS
A. The Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) is a municipality pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated (“UCA”) §§ 10-2a-401 et seq.
B. The Magna Metro Township Council (the “Council”) is the municipal governing body
for Magna pursuant to UCA § 10-3b-501.
C. D.R. Horton Company (‘DR Horton”) is the developer of the Little Valley Gateway
Planned Community (the “Planned Community”) located at approximately 4000
South and 8400 West.
D. To develop the planned community, DR Horton is required to install a storm drain
pipeline (the “pipeline”) by Magna.
E. The required storm drain pipeline will cross under the Union Pacific Railroad (“Union
Pacific”) easement, requiring an agreement between Magna and/or DR Horton and
Union Pacific to install the pipeline.
|

F. To facilitate the construction and transfer of the pipeline, Magna has offered to enter

into the agreement with Union Pacific for a Railroad Crossing Easement.
G. The attached agreement (Exhibit A) allows the Planned Community to proceed and

Magna to receive the pipeline upon completion.

RESOLUTION

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Magna Metro Township, the Mayor and
Council hereby approves the attached Agreement, hereinafter known as Exhibit A (with
related attachments) between DR Horton and Magna; and authorizes the Mayor to sign
the agreement.

APPROVEDAND ADOPTED in the Magna Metro Township, Salt Lake County,
Utah this 23 day of , Wy ro , 2020.

FOR THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP:
DAN W. PEAY, R
ATTEST
/ ; APPROVED AS TO FORM:
— 3 ON
Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder
PAUL H. ASHTO
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
VOTING
Council Member Hull voting A
Vz
Mayor Peay voting (Ay VE
2

Council Member Peel voting V
. yy y
Council Member Pierce voting
Council Member Prokopis voting A br ep
3

Exhibit A
AN AGREEMENT BY AND BETWEEN DR HORTON, INC. AND
THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP FOR DEVELOPMENT OF A
STORM DRAIN PIPELINE FOR THE LITTLE VALLEY GATEWAY
PLANNED-COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

This Development Agreement entered this __ day of 2020, between
DR Horton, LLC, a Utah limited liability company, (the “Developer”) and the Magna Metro
Township, a municipal corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Utah
("Magna"), hereafter sometimes referred to herein as “party” or “parties” in this agreement.

RECITALS

WHEREAS, Developer is an affiliate of the owner of real property located at
approximately 4000 South and 8400 West, which is being developed as the Little Valley Gaterwater
Planned Community Project (the "Project"), and

WHEREAS, in order to to develop the Project, the Developer has to install a storm drain
pipeline (“Pipeline”) identified in Attachment A, and

WHEREAS, the Pipeline must cross property owned and used by the Union Pacific
Railroad (the "Railroad"), which crossing cannot take place without an easement from the Railroad,
and

WHEREAS, after completion of the Pipeline, and acceptance of the same by Magna, the
Pipeline, together with any easements appertaining thereto, will be conveyed by Developer to
Magna, and

WHEREAS, it has been determined by the parties it is in their mutual best interests for
Magna to enter into an easement agreement with the Railroad, on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Pipeline Crossing Ageement, attached hereto, marked Attachment "B," and by this reference
made a part hereof, in order to obtain an easement to allow the Pipeline to cross the Railroad's
property (the "Railroad Easement"), and

WHEREAS, Developer is willing to pay for the cost of the Railroad Easement, as set forth
in Attachment B, whether directly to the Railroad or as reimbursement to Magna, and to install the
portion of Pipeline through the Railroad Easement pursuant to Magna's standards and the
requirements of Attachment B, and

WHEREAS, Developer is a licensed Utah general contractor and wishes to provide the
above described improvements to support the development of the Project.

AGREEMENT
THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the parties agree as follows:
1. RECITALS. The recitals set forth above are adopted by the parties as part of this
agreement, as if set forth in full herein.
2. IMPROVEMENTS. The Developer agrees to pay for and install a stormwater pipeline,
from the south side of the Railroad property, including through the Railroad Easement, as

Exhibit A
| described in Exhibit A, north to where the pipeline will connect to the municipal
| stormwater system at a point as agreed to by Magna. The Pipeline shall be developed in

accordance with MMC § 17.1.010. Developer shal! procure the necessary pipeline license
| agreement(s) from, and will work with, Magna through Magna's contract service providers
the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Service District and Salt Lake County (hereafter
collectively "Magna"), to install the Pipeline. Developer understands and agrees the
Pipeline is a part of the overall stormwater management system of the Project; and the
developer shall be attaching the Project’s stormwater management system to the Pipeline.

3. TITLE. It is understood by the parties the Pipeline commencing at south side of the
Railroad property, going north to the connection to Magna's storm drain system, shall
belong to Magna, and all attachments to the Pipeline south of the south side of the Railroad
property, shall belong to Developer until final conveyance to the municipality at the
completion of the development.

4. RAILROAD CROSSING. _ It is understood and agreed by the parties that for the
installation of that portion of the Pipeline crossing the Railroad property, utilzing the
Railroad Easement, Developer will be acting as Magna's contractor as referenced in
Pipeline Crossing Agreement, Attachment B, and by reference made a part hereof. Without
limiting the duties and responsiblities of that contractor status, Developer expressly agrees:
(a) in accordwith Article 6 of the Pipeline Crossing Agreement to "comply with all terms
and conditions of th[at] Agreement, including the indemnification requirements set forth
in the "INDEMNITY" Section of Exhibit B" [to Attrachment B], and (b) in accord to
Article 5 of the Pipeline Crossing Agreement, "to fully comply with the insurance
requirements described in Exhibit C" to that Agreement. Railroad requires Magna to
provide monitoring of tracks and construction observation through Railroad approved
observer named below during all construction and installation work. Developer will fullfil
this responsibilty to Railroad and directly coordinate services with the named inspector:

Railpros Field Services
Email: RP.Utility@railpros.com
Phone (682)223-5271

5. ATTORNEYS’ FEES, EXPENSES, AND COSTS. If litigation or other court action or
similar adjudicatory proceeding is undertaken by Licensee or Licensor to enforce its
rights under this Agreement, all fees, costs, and expenses, including, without limitation,
reasonable attorneys’ fees and court costs, of the prevailing Party in such action, suit, or
proceeding shall be reimbursed or paid by the Party against whose interest the judgment
or decision is rendered. The provisions of this Article shall survive the termination of this
Agreement.

6. WAIVER OF BREACH. The waiver by a party of the breach of any condition, covenant
or agreement herein contained to be kept, observed and performed by the other party
shall in no way impair the right of the waiving to avail itself of any remedy for any
subsequent breach thereof.

7. ASSIGNMENT. Developer shall not assign this Agreement, in whole or in part, or any
rights herein granted, without the written consent of Magna, which must be requested in
writing by Developer. Any assignment or attempted transfer of this Agreement or any of

Exhibit A
the rights herein granted, whether voluntary, by operation of law, or otherwise, without
Magna's written consent, will be absolutely void and may result in Magna's termination
of this Agreement. Upon Magna's written consent to any assignment, this Agreement
will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties thereto, successors, heirs, and
assigns, executors, and administrators.

8. SEVERABILITY AND CONFLICTS. Any provision of this Agreement which is
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable shall be
invalid or unenforceable only to the extent of such determination, which shall not
invalidate or otherwise render ineffective any other provision of this Agreement. If any
potential conflicts arise between terms and conditions of this Agreement, the conflicts
will be resolved by giving effect to the requirements of Attachment B to this Agreement
and to preserve the Railroad Easement.

9. NOTICE. Notices required by this Agreement shall be sent in writing, to the parties at the

following addresses:

To Municipality: Magna Metro Township
8952 W Magna Main St,
Magna, UT 84044
Attn: Greg Schulz

To Developer: DR Horton, Inc.
12351 S Gateway Park Pl
Draper, UT 84020
Attn: Adam R. Loser

10. TERMINATION. This Agreement shall be terminated upon the earlier of (a) completion

by Developer of the Pipeline, including that portion through the Railroad Easement, acceptable

to Magna and conveyance of the same to Magna or (b) writen agreement of both parties.
Provided however, that any warranty obligations of Developer arising from instalation of the
Pipeline shall continue as provided under law or other agreement.

11. RATIFICATION. Each individual executing this Agreement on behalf of the parties
represent and warrant that he has the authority to execute this agreement. This Agreement shall
be binding on the parties’ successors and assigns. This Agreement, with Attachments, contains
the final and entire Agreement between the parties regarding the subject matter of this
Agreement. The parties shall not be bound by any terms, conditions, statements, or
representations, oral or written, not contained in this Agreement, respecting the subject matter
of this Agreement, while at the same time, nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed a waiver
of modifications of other Agreements entered into by and between the Parties relating to the
overall Project, such as the Master Development Agreement.

Exhibit A
|
12, COUNTERPARTS AND ELECTONIC SIGNATURES. This Agreement may be
executed in any number of counterpart originals, each of which shall be deemed an original
instrument for all purposes, but all of which shall comprise one and the same instrument.
Signatures signed electronically shall be deemed to be originals per Utah law.
13. CONTROLLING LAW. This Agreement shall be construed, administered and enforced
according to the laws of the State of Utah.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the dates below
written to be effective as of .
DR HORTON, INC MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
Its Manager
By: By: tet Z VA COLE
Adam R. Loser Dan W. Peay
(Title) Mayor
Notary Information / Seal APPROVAL AS TO FORM:
PAUL H. fel ATTORNEY

PACIFIC
May 18, 2020
Folder: 03138-87
| Magna Metro Township
c/o Greg Schulz
8259 W. 3500 S.
Magna, UT 84044
Re: Proposed One (1) 36 Inch Plastic Stormwater Runoff Pipeline Encased In A Forty-two Inch
Steel Casing Pipeline Crossing of Railroad Property at Mile Post 15.73 on the Garfield
(SBG) Subdivision at or near Magna, Salt Lake County, Utah
Greg Schulz:
Attached is an original of the agreement covering your use of the Railroad Company’s right of way.
Please print two copies, execute on your behalf and return ALL DOCUMENTS with a check for any
payments required, as shown below to 1400 Douglas Street, Omaha, NE 68179-1690 Attn: Casey Moore.
An original copy of the fully-executed document will be returned to you, when approved and
processed by the Railroad Company. Also, please provide a resolution or other authorization for the
party executing the documents, if signature authorization is required by your Entity.
¢ Payment in the amount of Fourteen Thousand Eight Hundred Twenty Dollars ($14,820.00) is
due and payable to Union Pacific Railroad Company upon your execution of the agreement.
Please include your payment, with Folder No. 03138-87 noted on that document. If you require
formal billing, you may consider this letter as a formal bill and that 94-6001323 is this
Corporation’s correct Federal Taxpayer Identification Number.
¢ Railroad Protective Liability Insurance (RPLI) may be obtained from any insurance company
which offers such coverage. Union Pacific has also worked with a national broker, Marsh USA,
to make available RPLI to you or your contractor. You can find additional information, premium
quotes, and application forms at (uprr.marsh.com).
If we have not received the executed documents within six months from the date of this letter, this
proposed offer of an agreement is withdrawn and becomes null and void.
If you have any questions, please contact me at (402) 544-8553.
Sincerely,
Casey Moore
Sr Analyst RE Contracts
Union Pacific Railroad RealEstate 1400 Douglas Street Stop 1690 Omaha, Nebraska 68179-1690 fx. (402) 501-0340

Pipeline Crossing 080808 Folder No. 03138-87
Last Modified: 06/05/18
Form Approved, AVP-Law
PIPELINE CROSSING
AGREEMENT
Mile Post: 15.73, Garfield (SBG) Subdivision
Location: Magna, Salt Lake County, Utah

THIS AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) is made and entered into as of December 19, 2019,
(“Effective Date”) by and between UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY, a Delaware
corporation, (“Licensor”) and MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP, to be addressed at 8259 W. 3500
S., Magna, Utah 84044 (“Licensee”).

IT IS MUTUALLY AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE PARTIES HERETO AS FOLLOWS:
Article 1. LICENSOR GRANTS RIGHT.

A. In consideration of the license fee to be paid by Licensee set forth below and in further
consideration of the covenants and agreements to be performed by Licensee, Licensor hereby grants to
Licensee the right to construct and thereafter, during the term hereof, maintain and operate one (1) 36
inch plastic stormwater runoff pipeline encased in a forty-two inch steel casing only, including any
appurtenances required for the operation of said pipeline (collectively, "Licensee's Facilities") across
Licensor’s real property, trackage, or other facilities located in Magna, Salt Lake County, State of Utah
("Railroad Property"). The specific specifications and limited purpose for Licensee's Facilities on, along,
across and under Railroad Property are described in and shown on the Print and Specifications dated
November 07, 2019, attached hereto as Exhibit A and made a part hereof.

B. Licensee represents and warrants that Licensee's Facilities will (i) only be used for one
(1) 36 inch plastic stormwater runoff pipeline encased in a forty-two inch steel casing, and (ii) not be used
to convey any other substance, any fiber optic cable, or for any other use, whether such use is currently
technologically possible, or whether such use may come into existence during the life of this Agreement.

C. Licensee acknowledges that if it or its contractor provides Licensor with digital imagery
depicting Licensee's Facilities ("Digital Imagery"), Licensee authorizes Licensor to use the Digital
Imagery in preparing Exhibit A. Licensee represents and warrants that through a license or otherwise, it
has the right to use the Digital Imagery and to permit Licensor to use the Digital Imagery in said manner.
Article 2. LICENSE FEE.

Upon execution of this Agreement, the Licensee shall pay to the Licensor a one-time License Fee
of Fourteen Thousand Eight Hundred Twenty Dollars ($14,820.00).

Article 3. TERM.

This Agreement shall take effect as of the Effective Date first herein written and shall continue in full
force and effect until terminated as provided in the "TERMINATION; REMOVAL OF LICENSEE’S
FACILITIES" Section of Exhibit B.

Article 4. LICENSEE'S COMPLIANCE WITH GENERAL TERMS.

Licensee represents and warrants that all work on Licensee's Facilities performed by Licensee or its
contractors will strictly comply with all terms and conditions set forth herein, including the General
Terms and Conditions, attached hereto as Exhibit B and made a part hereof.

Article 5. INSURANCE,

A. During the term of this Agreement, Licensee shall fully comply or cause its contractor(s) to fully
comply with the insurance requirements described in Exhibit C, attached hereto and made a part hereof.
Upon request only, Licensee shall send copies of all insurance documentation (e.g., certificates,
endorsements, etc.) to Licensor at the address listed in the "NOTICES" Section of this Agreement.

B. If Licensee is subject to statute(s) limiting its insurance liability and/or limiting its ability to
obtain insurance in compliance with Exhibit C of this Agreement, those statutes shall apply.

Article 6. DEFINITION OF LICENSEE.

For purposes of this Agreement, all references in this Agreement to Licensee will include
Licensee's contractors, subcontractors, officers, agents and employees, and others acting under its or their
authority (collectively, a "Contractor"). If a Contractor is hired by Licensee to perform any work on
Licensee's Facilities (including initial construction and subsequent relocation, maintenance, and/or repair
work), then Licensee shall provide a copy of this Agreement to its Contractor(s) and require its
Contractor(s) to comply with all terms and conditions of this Agreement, including the indemnification
requirements set forth in the "INDEMNITY" Section of Exhibit B. Licensee shall require any Contractor
to release, defend, and indemnify Licensor to the same extent and under the same terms and conditions as
Licensee is required to release, defend, and indemnify Licensor herein.

Article 7. ATTORNEYS’ FEES, EXPENSES, AND COSTS.

If litigation or other court action or similar adjudicatory proceeding is undertaken by Licensee or Licensor
to enforce its rights under this Agreement, all fees, costs, and expenses, including, without limitation,
reasonable attorneys’ fees and court costs, of the prevailing Party in such action, suit, or proceeding shall
be reimbursed or paid by the Party against whose interest the judgment or decision is rendered. The
provisions of this Article shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

Article 8. WAIVER OF BREACH.

The waiver by Licensor of the breach of any condition, covenant or agreement herein contained to be
kept, observed and performed by Licensee shall in no way impair the right of Licensor to avail itself of
any remedy for any subsequent breach thereof.

Article 9, ASSIGNMENT.

A. Licensee shall not assign this Agreement, in whole or in part, or any rights herein granted,
without the written consent of Licensor, which must be requested in writing by Licensee. Any assignment
or attempted transfer of this Agreement or any of the rights herein granted, whether voluntary, by
operation of law, or otherwise, without Licensor's written consent, will be absolutely void and may result
in Licensor's termination of this Agreement pursuant to the "TERMINATION; REMOVAL OF
LICENSEE'S FACILITIES" Section of Exhibit B.

| B. Upon Licensor's written consent to any assignment, this Agreement will be binding upon and
inure to the benefit of the parties thereto, successors, heirs, and assigns, executors, and administrators.
Article 10. SEVERABILITY.
Any provision of this Agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or
unenforceable shall be invalid or unenforceable only to the extent of such determination, which shall not
invalidate or otherwise render ineffective any other provision of this Agreement.
Article 11. NOTICES.

Except Licensee's commencement of work notice(s) required under Exhibit B, all other notices
required by this Agreement must be in writing, and (i) personally served upon the business address listed
below ("Notice Address"), (ii) sent overnight via express delivery by a nationally recognized overnight
delivery service such as Federal Express Corporation or United Parcel Service to the Notice Address, or
(ili) by certified mail, return receipt requested to the Notice Address. Overnight express delivery notices
will be deemed to be given upon receipt. Certified mail notices will be deemed to be given three (3) days
after deposit with the United States Postal Service.

Ifto Licensor: Union Pacific Railroad Company
Attn: Analyst — Real Estate Utilities (Folder No. 03138-87)
1400 Douglas Street, MS 1690
Omaha, Nebraska 68179
If to Licensee: MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
c/o Greg Schulz
8259 W. 3500 S.
Magna, UT 84044
Article 12. SPECIAL PROVISION —- CONSTRUCTION OBSERVATION.

Licensor requires Licensee to provide monitoring of tracks and construction observation through
Licensor approved observer named below during all construction and installation work. Licensee is to
directly coordinate services with the named inspector:

Railpros Field Services
Email: RP.Utility@railpros.com
Phone (682)223-5271

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of

the date first herein written.
UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY MAGNA METRO We,
Gregory A. Brigham Name Printed: / Dn A va aA
Director — Real Estate
Title: f7, 4B ¥CS

NON-FLAMMABLE LIQUID CRO ROACHMENT
nok
pe er es RRR RO Me
1458 FT, ————__»_____________ 3822 Fy,
Fl | a fs
= FT, ———_+} + ______._ 1880 FT, a *
x =* | \ _90 DEG. =|2
= & S| \ ANGLE OF =
= 5.2 _\CROSSING &
(i - — ee pe Se S - SE oe ee - 2 — - t-te
Lidl wn
3 q ae }
a4 \— DESCRIBE ol DESCRIBE /
FIXED OBJECT | FIXED OBJECT te
CROSSING TRACK CROSSING TRACK—
XK vy | 8400 West C/L 8
Ste ‘
{ES: 541471)
NORTH t
A UPRR R. 0. We
PLAN
SCALE: NONE
ee eeiee
aS ¢ OUTER ¢ OUTER Fae
Slat TRACK " TRACK Fa
— _50_ FT, ———» ———— 150 Ft, —________-|
| |
204.9 FT,
1 !
! 826 FT, ————=— ne an
9, 1
|_— VENT PIPE lf yt
we | 1 | |
f ‘ TOTAL TRACKS MAT. i NA. FT, 7 SROUND
-NA_ FT, RFT. / SURFACE
; — sts, DRAINAGE /
| | [ DITCH |
|
| |
| 13.14 |
| 1 13.14 FT, Ft.
| 1 LATFT. 1 5
< | | | 22
Ie Sees Gk Sfeaahecapeieininisteningetemiresininininininiimnnint sth 320 9 eeean ak (B)
7 - PA
. ~— CASING PIPE SECTION J
\— CARRIER PIPE 7a aa LONGITUDINAL PIPE —
SCALES NONE ENCROACHMENT
NOTES:
1) ALL DIMENSIONS MEASURED PERPENDICULAR TO THE CENTERLINE OF TRACK
2) REFER TO AREMA VOLUME 1. CHAPTER 1. PART 5. SECTION 5.1
A) METHOD OF INSTALLATION _BOREDANDJACKED ascenn
B) DIST. FROM CENTERLINE OF TRACK TO PIPE ENCROACHMENT as ~=BUILDING AMERICA®
C) SIGNS PROVIDED? ATMINIMUM SIGNS WILL BE PROVIDED AS STATED ABOVE HUTT
D) CARRIER MATERIAL PLASTIC ,sSF «RCP, CLASS V? NA,
WALL THICKNESS (INCH)/ SCHEDULE 325, DIAMETER 38 IN, | SUBDIVISION: Garteld (Leased $86)
CATHODIC/COATING PROTECTION_NO__ TRACK TYPE: MAINLINE
E) CASING MATERIAL STEELPIPE Ss ,sSIF «RCP, CLASS V? NAL.
TOTAL LENGTH CASING PIPE: 2049 FT, ENT ee TONGS
WALL THICKNESS _2624_ IN, DIAMETER __42 _ IN, == =112.09805556
CATHODIC/COATING PROTECTION__YES__ NEAREST CITY: COUNTY: STATE:
CASING PIPE IS OPEN. AT THE ENDS. MAGNA SALT LAKE UT
F) DISTANCE FROM CENTERLINE OF TRACK TO NEAR FACE OF APPLICANT: MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
BORING AND JACKING PITS WHEN MEASURED AT RIGHT ANGLES
50.3 AND _149.9_, FILE NO.: 3138-87 DATE: 1172019

Pipeline Crossing 06/05/18
Form Approved, AVP Law
EXHIBIT B
GENERAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Section 1. LIMITATION AND SUBORDINATION OF RIGHTS GRANTED.

A. The foregoing grant is subject and subordinate to the prior and continuing right and
obligation of Licensor to use and maintain its entire property including the right and power of Licensor to
construct, maintain, repair, renew, use, operate, change, modify or relocate railroad tracks, signal,
communication, fiber optics, or other wirelines, pipelines and other facilities upon, along or across any or
all parts of its property, all or any of which may be freely done at any time or times by Licensor without
liability to Licensee or to any other party for compensation or damages.

B. The foregoing grant is also subject to all outstanding superior rights (including those in
favor of licensees and lessees of Railroad Property) and the right of Licensor to renew and extend the
same, and is made without covenant of title or for quiet enjoyment. It shall be Licensee's sole obligation
to obtain such additional permission, license and grants necessary on account of any such existing rights.
Section 2. ENGINEERING REQUIREMENTS; PERMITS.

A. Licensee's Facilities will be designed, constructed, operated, maintained, repaired,
renewed, modified, reconstructed, removed, or abandoned in place on Railroad Property by Licensee or
its contractor to Licensor's satisfaction and in strict conformity with: (i) Licensor’s current engineering
standards and specifications, including those for shoring and cribbing to protect Licensor's railroad
operations and facilities ("UP Specifications"), except for variances approved in advance in writing by
Licensor’s Assistant Vice President Engineering -— Design or its authorized representative
("UP Engineering Representative"); (ii) such other additional safety standards as Licensor, in its sole
discretion, elects to require, including, without limitation, American Railway Engineering and
Maintenance-of-Way Association ("AREMA") standards and guidelines (collectively, "UP Additional
Requirements"); and (iii) all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, including any applicable Federal
Railroad Administration and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regulations and enactments
(collectively, "Laws"). If there is any conflict between UP Specifications, UP Additional Requirements,
and Laws, the most restrictive will apply.

B. Licensee shall keep the soil over Licensee's Facilities thoroughly compacted, and
maintain the grade over and around Licensee's Facilities even with the surface of the adjacent ground.

C. If needed, Licensee shall secure, at Licensee's sole cost and expense, any and all
necessary permits required to perform any work on Licensee's Facilities.

Section 3. NOTICE OF COMMENCEMENT OF WORK; EMERGENCIES.

A. Licensee and it contractors are strictly prohibited from commencing any
work associated with Licensee's Facilities without Licensor's written approval that the work
will be in strict compliance with the "ENGINEERING REQUIREMENTS; PERMITS"
Section of this Exhibit B. Upon Licensor's approval, Licensee shall contact both of

Licensor's field representatives ("Licensor's Field Representatives") at least ten (10) days
before commencement of any work on Licensee's Facilities.

B. Licensee shall not commence any work until: (1) Licensor has determined whether
flagging or other special protective or safety measures ("Safety Measures") are required for performance
of the work pursuant to the "FLAGGING" Section of this Exhibit B and provided Licensee written
authorization to commence work; and (2) Licensee has complied with the "PROTECTION OF FIBER
OPTIC CABLE SYSTEMS" Section of this Exhibit B.

C. If, at any time, an emergency arises involving Licensee's Facilities, Licensee or its
contractor shall immediately contact Licensor's Response Management Communications Center at
(888) 877-7267.

Section 4. FLAGGING.

A. Following Licensee's notice to Licensor's Field Representatives required under the
"NOTICE OF COMMENCEMENT OF WORK; EMERGENCIES" Section of this Exhibit B, Licensor
shall inform Licensee if Safety Measures are required for performance of the work by Licensee or its
contractor on Railroad Property. If Safety Measures are required, no work of any kind may be performed
by Licensee or its contractor(s) until arrangements for the Safety Measures have been made and
scheduled. If no Safety Measures are required, Licensor will give Licensee written authorization to
commence work.

B. If any Safety Measures are performed or provided by Licensor, including but not limited
to flagging, Licensor shall bill Licensee for such expenses incurred by Licensor, unless Licensor and a
federal, state, or local governmental entity have agreed that Licensor is to bill such expenses to the
federal, state, or local governmental entity. Additional information regarding the submission of such
expenses by Licensor and payment thereof by Licensee can be found in the "LICENSEE’S PAYMENT
OF EXPENSES" Section of this Exhibit B. If Licensor performs any Safety Measures, Licensee agrees
that Licensee is not relieved of any of responsibilities or liabilities set forth in this Agreement.

Cc. For flagging, the rate of pay per hour for each flagger will be the prevailing hourly rate in
effect for an eight-hour day for the class of flagmen used during regularly assigned hours and overtime in
accordance with Labor Agreements and Schedules in effect at the time the work is performed. In addition
to the cost of such labor, a composite charge for vacation, holiday, health and welfare, supplemental
sickness, Railroad Retirement and unemployment compensation, supplemental pension, Employees
Liability and Property Damage, and Administration will be included, computed on actual payroll. The
composite charge will be the prevailing composite charge in effect at the time the work is performed. One
and one-half times the current hourly rate is paid for overtime, Saturdays and Sundays, and two and one-
half times current hourly rate for holidays. Wage rates are subject to change, at any time, by law or by
agreement between Licensor and its employees, and may be retroactive as a result of negotiations or a
tuling of an authorized governmental agency. Additional charges on labor are also subject to change. If
the wage rate or additional charges are changed, Licensee (or the governmental entity, as applicable) shall
pay on the basis of the new rates and charges.

D. Reimbursement to Licensor will be required covering the full eight-hour day during
which any flagger is furnished, unless the flagger can be assigned to other railroad work during a portion
of such day, in which event reimbursement will not be required for the portion of the day during which
the flagger is engaged in other railroad work. Reimbursement will also be required for any day not
actually worked by the flaggers following the flaggers’ assignment to work on the project for which

Licensor is required to pay the flaggers and which could not reasonably be avoided by Licensor by

assignment of such flaggers to other work, even though Licensee may not be working during such time.
When it becomes necessary for Licensor to bulletin and assign an employee to a flagging position in
compliance with union collective bargaining agreements, Licensee must provide Licensor a minimum of
five (5) days notice prior to the cessation of the need for a flagger. If five (5) days notice of cessation is
not given, Licensee will still be required to pay flagging charges for the days the flagger was scheduled,
even though flagging is no longer required for that period. An additional ten (10) days notice must then be
given to Licensor if flagging services are needed again after such five day cessation notice has been given
to Licensor.

Section 5. SAFETY.

A. Safety of personnel, property, rail operations and the public is of paramount importance
in the prosecution of any work on Railroad Property performed by Licensee or its contractor, and takes
precedence over any work on Licensee's Facilities to be performed Licensee or its contractors. Licensee
shall be responsible for initiating, maintaining and supervising all safety operations and programs in
connection with any work on Licensee's Facilities. Licensee and its contractor shall, at a minimum
comply, with Licensor's then current safety standards located at the below web address ("Licensor's
Safety Standards") to ensure uniformity with the safety standards followed by Licensor's own forces. As
a part of Licensee's safety responsibilities, Licensee shall notify Licensor if it determines that any of
Licensor's Safety Standards are contrary to good safety practices. Licensee and its contractor shall
furnish copies of Licensor's Safety Standards to each of its employees before they enter Railroad
Property.

Union Pacific Current Safety Requirements

B. Licensee shall keep the job site on Railroad Property free from safety and health hazards
and ensure that their employees are competent and adequately trained in all safety and health aspects of
the work.

C. Licensee represents and warrants that all parts of Licensee's Facilities within and outside
of the limits of Railroad Property will not interfere whatsoever with the constant, continuous, and
uninterrupted use of the tracks, property, and facilities of Licensor, and nothing shall be done or suffered
to be done by Licensee at any time that would in any manner impair the safety thereof.

D. Licensor's operations and work performed by Licensor’s personnel may cause delays in
Licensee's or its contractor's work on Licensee's Facilities. Licensee accepts this risk and agrees that
Licensor shall have no liability to Licensee or any other person or entity for any such delays. Licensee
must coordinate any work on Railroad Property by Licensee or any third party with Licensor's Field
Representatives in strict compliance with the "NOTICE OF COMMENCEMENT OF WORK:
EMERGENCIES" Section of this Exhibit

E. Licensor shall have the right, if it so elects, to provide any support it deems necessary for
the safety of Licensor's operations and trackage during Licensee's or its contractor's construction,
maintenance, repair, renewal, modification, relocation, reconstruction, or removal of Licensee's Facilities.
In the event Licensor provides such support, Licensor shall invoice Licensee, and Licensee shall pay
Licensor as set forth in the "LICENSEE'S PAYMENT OF EXPENSES" Section of this Exhibit B.

F, Licensee may use unmanned aircraft systems ("UAS") to inspect Licensee's Facilities
only upon the prior authorization from and under the direction of Licensor's Field Representatives.
Licensee represents and warrants that its use of UAS on Railroad Property will comply with Licensor's
then-current Unmanned Aerial Systems Policy and all applicable laws, rules and regulations, including
any applicable Federal Aviation Administration regulations and enactments pertaining to UAS.

Section 6. PROTECTION OF FIBER OPTIC CABLE SYSTEMS.

Fiber optic cable systems may be buried on Railroad Property. Protection of the fiber optic cable
systems is of extreme importance since any break could disrupt service to users resulting in business
interruption and loss of revenue and profits. In addition to the notifications required under the "NOTICE
OF COMMENCEMENT OF WORK; EMERGENCIES" Section of this Exhibit B, Licensee shall
telephone Licensor during normal business hours (7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Central Time, Monday through
Friday, except for holidays) at 1-800-336-9193 (also a 24-hour, 7-day number for emergency calls) to
determine if fiber optic cable is buried anywhere on Railroad Property to be used by Licensee. If it is,
Licensee shall telephone the telecommunications company(ies) involved, and arrange for a cable locator,
make arrangements for relocation or other protection of the fiber optic cable, all at Licensee’s expense,
and will not commence any work on Railroad Property until all such protection or relocation has been
completed.

Section 7. LICENSEE'S PAYMENT OF EXPENSES.

A. Licensee shall bear the entire cost and expense of the design, construction, maintenance,
modification, reconstruction, repair, renewal, revision, relocation, or removal of Licensee's Facilities.

B. Licensee shall fully pay for all materials joined, affixed to and labor performed on
Railroad Property in connection with the construction, maintenance, modification, reconstruction, repair,
renewal, revision, relocation, or removal of Licensee's Facilities, and shall not permit or suffer any
mechanic’s or materialman’s lien of any kind or nature to be enforced against the property for any work
done or materials furnished thereon at the instance or request or on behalf of Licensee. Licensee shall
promptly pay or discharge all taxes, charges, and assessments levied upon, in respect to, or on account of
Licensee's Facilities, to prevent the same from becoming a charge or lien upon any property of Licensor,
and so that the taxes, charges, and assessments levied upon or in respect to such property shall not be
increased because of the location, construction, or maintenance of Licensee's Facilities or any
improvement, appliance, or fixture connected therewith placed upon such property, or on account of
Licensee’s interest therein. Where such tax, charge, or assessment may not be separately made or assessed
to Licensee but shall be included in the assessment of the property of Licensor, then Licensee shall pay to
Licensor an equitable proportion of such taxes determined by the value of Licensee’s property upon
property of Licensor as compared with the entire value of such property.

C. As set forth in the "FLAGGING" Section of this Exhibit B, Licensor shall have the right,
if it so elects, to provide any Safety Measures Licensor deems necessary for the safety of Licensor's
operations and trackage during Licensee's or its contractor's construction, maintenance, modification,
reconstruction, repair, renewal, revision, relocation, or removal of Licensee's Facilities, including, but not
limited to supervision, inspection, and flagging services. In the event Licensor provides such Safety
Measures, Licensor shall submit an itemized invoice to Licensee's notice recipient listed in the
"NOTICES" Article of this Agreement. Licensee shall pay to Licensor the total amount listed on such
invoice within thirty (30) days of Licensee's receipt of such invoice.

Section 8. MODIFICATIONS TO LICENSEE'S FACILITIES.

A. This grant is subject to Licensor's safe and efficient operation of its railroad, and
continued use and improvement of Railroad Property (collectively, "Railroad's Use"). Accordingly,
Licensee shall, at its sole cost and expense, modify, reconstruct, repair, renew, revise, relocate, or remove
(individually, "Modification", or collectively, "Modifications") all or any portion of Licensee's Facilities
as Licensor may designate or identify, in its sole discretion, in the furtherance of Railroad's Use.

B. Upon any Modification of all or any portion of Licensee's Facilities to another location
on Railroad Property, Licensor and Licensee shall execute a Supplemental Agreement to this Pipeline
Agreement to document the Modification(s) to Licensee's Facilities on Railroad Property. If the
Modifications result in Licensee's Facilities moving off of Railroad Property, this Agreement will
terminate upon Licensee's completion of such Modification(s) and all requirements contained within the
"TERMINATION; REMOVAL OF LICENSEE’S FACILITIES" Section of this Exhibit B. Any such
Modification(s) off of Railroad Property will not release Licensee from any liability or other obligation of
Licensee arising prior to and upon completion of any such Modifications to the Licensee's Facilities.
Section 9, RESTORATION OF RAILROAD PROPERTY.

In the event Licensee, in any manner moves or disturbs any property of Licensor in connection
with the construction, maintenance, modification, reconstruction, repair, renewal, revision, relocation, or
removal of Licensee's Facilities, then, Licensee shall, as soon as possible and at Licensee’s sole cost and
expense, restore Licensor’s property to the same condition as the same were before such property was
moved or disturbed.

Section 10. INDEMNITY.

A. Definitions. As used in this Section:

l. "Licensor" includes Licensor, its affiliates, its and their officers, directors, agents
and employees, and other railroad companies using Railroad Property at or near
the location of Licensee’s installation and their officers, directors, agents, and
employees.

2. "Licensee" includes Licensee and its agents, contractors, subcontractors,
sub-subcontractors, employees, officers, and directors, or any other person or
entity acting on its behalf or under its control.

3. "Loss" includes claims, suits, taxes, loss, damages (including punitive damages,
statutory damages, and exemplary damages), costs, charges, assessments,
judgments, settlements, liens, demands, actions, causes of action, fines, penalties,
interest, and expenses of any nature, including court costs, reasonable attorneys’
fees and expenses, investigation costs, and appeal expenses.

B. Licensee shall release, defend, indemnify, and hold harmless Licensor from and against
any and all Loss, even if groundless, fraudulent, or false, that directly or indirectly arises out of or is
related to Licensee’s construction, maintenance, modification, reconstruction, repair, renewal, revision,
relocation, removal, presence, use, or operation of Licensee's Facilities, including, but not limited to, any
actual or alleged:

1. Bodily harm or personal injury (including any emotional injury or disease) to, or the
death of, any person(s), including, but not limited to, Licensee, Licensor, any
telecommunications company, or the agents, contractors, subcontractors,
sub-subcontractors, or employees of the foregoing;

2. Damage to or the disturbance, loss, movement, or destruction of Railroad Property,
including loss of use and diminution in value, including, but not limited to, any

telecommunications system(s) or fiber optic cable(s) on or near Railroad
Property, any property of Licensee or Licensor, or any property in the care,
custody, or control of Licensee or Licensor;

3. Removal of person(s) from Railroad Property;

4. Any delays or interference with track or Railroad’s Use caused by Licensee's
activity(ies) on Railroad Property, including without limitation the construction,
maintenance, modification, reconstruction, repair, renewal, revision, relocation,
or removal of Licensee's Facilities or any part thereof, any activities, labor,
materials, equipment, or machinery in conjunction therewith ;

5. Right(s) or interest(s) granted pursuant to this Agreement;

6. Contents escaping from Licensee's Facilities, including without limitation any actual
or alleged pollution, contamination, breach, or environmental Loss;

7. Licensee’s breach of this Agreement or failure to comply with its provisions,
including, but not limited to, any violation or breach by Licensee of any
representations and warranties Licensee has made in this Agreement; and

8. Violation by Licensee of any law, statute, ordinance, governmental administrative
order, rule, or regulation, including without limitation all applicable Federal
Railroad Administration regulations.

C. THE FOREGOING OBLIGATIONS SHALL APPLY TO THE FULLEST EXTENT
PERMITTED BY LAW FOR THE BENEFIT OF LICENSOR TO LOSSES CAUSED BY, ARISING
FROM, RELATING TO, OR RESULTING FROM, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, THE NEGLIGENCE OF
LICENSOR, AND SUCH NEGLIGENCE OF LICENSOR SHALL NOT LIMIT, DIMINISH, OR
PRECLUDE LICENSEE’S OBLIGATIONS TO LICENSOR IN ANY RESPECT. NOTWITHSTANDING
THE FOREGOING, SUCH OBLIGATION TO INDEMNIFY LICENSOR SHALL NOT APPLY TO THE
EXTENT THE LOSS IS CAUSED BY THE SOLE, ACTIVE AND DIRECT NEGLIGENCE, GROSS
NEGLIGENCE, OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT OF LICENSOR AS DETERMINED IN A FINAL
JUDGMENT BY A COURT OF COMPETENT JURISDICTION.

Section 11. TERMINATION; REMOVAL OF LICENSEE'S FACILITIES.

A. If Licensee does not use the right herein granted on Licensee's Facilities for one (1) year,
or if Licensee continues in default in the performance of any provision of this Agreement for a period of
thirty (30) days after written notice from Licensor to Licensee specifying such default, Licensor may, at
its sole discretion, terminate this Agreement by written notice to Licensee at the address listed in the
"NOTICES" Article of this Agreement. This Agreement will not terminate until Licensee complies with
Paragraphs "C" and "D" of this Section found below.

B. In addition to the provisions of Paragraph "A" above, this Agreement may be terminated
by written notice given by either party, without cause, upon thirty (30) days written notice to the
non-terminating party at the address listed in the "NOTICES" Article of this Agreement. This Agreement
will not terminate until Licensee complies with Paragraphs "C" and "D" of this Section found below.

C. Prior to the effective date of any termination described in this Section, Licensee shall submit an
application to Licensor's online Utility Contracts System at this link for Licensee's removal, or if applicable,

abandonment in place of Licensee's Facilities located on Railroad Property ("Removal/Abandonment
Work"). Upon the UP Engineering Representative's approval of Licensee's application for the
Removal/Abandonment Work, Licensor and Licensee shall execute
a separate consent document that will govern Licensee's performance of the Removal/Abandonment
Work from those portions of Railroad Property not occupied by roadbed and/or trackage
("Consent Document"). Licensor shall then restore the impacted Railroad Property to the same or
reasonably similar condition as it was prior to Licensee's installation of Licensee's Facilities. For purposes
of this Section, Licensee's (i) performance of the Removal/Abandonment Work, and (ii) restoration work
will hereinafter be collectively referred to as the "Restoration Work".

D. Following Licensee's completion of the Restoration Work, Licensee shall provide
a written certification letter to Licensor at the address listed in the "NOTICES" Article of this Agreement
which certifies that the Restoration Work has been completed in accordance with the Consent Document.
Licensee shall report to governmental authorities, as required by law, and notify Licensor immediately if
any environmental contamination is discovered during Licensee's performance of the Restoration Work.
Upon discovery, the Licensee shall initiate any and all removal, remedial and restoration actions that are
necessary to restore the property to its original, uncontaminated condition. Licensee shall provide written
certification to Licensor at the address listed in the "NOTICES" Article of this Agreement that
environmental contamination has been remediated and the property has been restored in accordance with
Licensor's requirements. Upon Licensor's receipt of Licensee's restoration completion certifications, this
Agreement will terminate.

E. In the event that Licensee fails to complete any of the Restoration Work, Licensor may,
but is not obligated, to perform the Restoration Work. Any such work actually performed by Licensor will
be at the cost and expense of Licensee. In the event that Licensor performs any of the Restoration Work,
Licensee shall release Licensor from any and all Loss (defined in the "INDEMNITY" Section of this
Exhibit B) arising out of or related to Licensor's performance of the Restoration Work.

F, Termination of this Agreement for any reason will not affect any of rights or obligations
of the parties which may have accrued, or liabilities or Loss (defined in the "INDEMNITY" Section of
this Exhibit B), accrued or otherwise, which may have arisen prior to such termination.

EXHIBIT C
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS

In accordance with Article 5 of this Agreement, Licensee shall (1) procure and maintain at its sole
cost and expense, or (2) require its Contractor(s) to procure and maintain, at their sole cost and expense,
the following insurance coverage:

A. Commercial General Liability Insurance. Commercial general liability (CGL) with
a limit of not less than $2,000,000 each occurrence and an aggregate limit of not less than $4,000,000.
CGL insurance must be written on ISO occurrence form CG 00 01 12 04 (or a substitute form providing
equivalent coverage).

The policy must also contain the following endorsement, WHICH MUST BE STATED ON THE
CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE:

e Contractual Liability Railroads ISO form CG 24 17 10 01 (or a substitute form providing
equivalent coverage) showing "Union Pacific Railroad Company Property" as the Designated Job
Site.

B. Business Automobile Coverage Insurance. Business auto coverage written on
ISO form CA 00 01 10 01 (or a substitute form providing equivalent liability coverage) with a limit of not
less $2,000,000 for each accident, and coverage must include liability arising out of any auto (including
owned, hired, and non-owned autos).

The policy must contain the following endorsements, WHICH MUST BE STATED ON THE
CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE:

e "Coverage For Certain Operations In Connection With Railroads" ISO form CA 20 70 10 01 (ora
substitute form providing equivalent coverage) showing "Union Pacific Railroad Company
Property" as the Designated Job Site.

C. Workers' Compensation and Employers' Liability Insurance. Coverage must include
but not be limited to:

e Licensee’s statutory liability under the workers' compensation laws of the state(s) affected by this
Agreement.

e Employers' Liability (Part B) with limits of at least $500,000 each accident, $500,000 disease
policy limit $500,000 each employee.

If Licensee is self-insured, evidence of state approval and excess workers' compensation coverage
must be provided. Coverage must include liability arising out of the U. S. Longshoremen's and Harbor
Workers’ Act, the Jones Act, and the Outer Continental Shelf Land Act, if applicable.

D. Environmental Liability Insurance. Environmental Legal Liability Insurance (ELL)
applicable to bodily injury, property damage, including loss of use of damaged property or of property
that has not been physically injured or destroyed, cleanup costs, and defense, including costs and
expenses incurred in the investigation, defense, or settlement of claims, or compliance with statute, all in
connection with any loss arising from the insured’s performance under this Agreement. Except with
respect to the limits of insurance, and any rights or duties specifically assigned to the first named insured,
this insurance must apply as if each named insured were the only named insured; and separately to the

additional insured against which claim is made or suit is brought. Coverage shall be maintained in an
amount of at least $2,000,000 per loss, with an annual aggregate of at least $4,000,000.

Licensee warrants that any retroactive date applicable to ELL insurance coverage under the
policy is the same as or precedes the Effective Date of this Agreement, and that continuous coverage will
be maintained for a period of five (5) years beginning from the time the work under this Agreement is
completed or if coverage is cancelled for any reason the policies extended discovery period, if any, will
be exercised for the maximum time allowed.

E. Railroad Protective Liability Insurance. Licensee must maintain for the duration of
work "Railroad Protective Liability" insurance written on ISO occurrence form CG 00 35 12 04 (or a
substitute form providing equivalent coverage) on behalf of Licensor only as named insured, with a limit
of not less than $2,000,000 per occurrence and an aggregate of $6,000,000. The definition of "JOB
LOCATION" and "WORK" on the declaration page of the policy shall refer to this Agreement and shall
describe all WORK or OPERATIONS performed under this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Licensee does not need Railroad Protective Liability Insurance after its initial construction work is
complete and all excess materials have been removed from Licensor's property; PROVIDED, however,
that Licensee shall procure such coverage for any subsequent maintenance, repair, renewal, modification,
reconstruction, or removal work on Licensee's Facilities.

F. Umbrella_or Excess Insurance. If Licensee utilizes umbrella or excess policies, and
these policies must "follow form" and afford no less coverage than the primary policy.

Other Requirements

G. All policy(ies) required above (except business automobile, workers' compensation and
employers’ liability) must include Licensor as "Additional Insured" using ISO Additional Insured
Endorsement CG 20 26 (or substitute form(s) providing equivalent coverage). The coverage provided to
Licensor as additional insured shall not be limited by Licensee’s liability under the indemnity provisions
of this Agreement. BOTH LICENSOR AND LICENSEE EXPECT THAT LICENSOR WILL BE
PROVIDED WITH THE BROADEST POSSIBLE COVERAGE AVAILABLE BY OPERATION OF
LAW UNDER ISO ADDITIONAL INSURED FORM CG 20 26.

H. Punitive damages exclusion, if any, must be deleted (and the deletion indicated on the
certificate of insurance), unless (a) insurance coverage may not lawfully be obtained for any punitive
damages that may arise under this Agreement, or (b) all punitive damages are prohibited by all states in
which this Agreement will be performed.

1. Licensee waives all rights of recovery, and its insurers also waive all rights of
subrogation of damages against Licensor and its agents, officers, directors and employees for damages
covered by the workers’ compensation and employers’ liability or commercial umbrella or excess liability
obtained by Licensee required in this Agreement, where permitted by law. This waiver must be stated on
the certificate of insurance.

J. All insurance policies must be written by a reputable insurance company acceptable to
Licensor or with a current Best's Insurance Guide Rating of A- and Class VII or better, and authorized to
do business in the state(s) in which the work is to be performed.

K. The fact that insurance is obtained by Licensee will not be deemed to release or diminish
the liability of Licensee, including, without limitation, liability under the indemnity provisions of this
Agreement. Damages recoverable by Licensor from Licensee or any third party will not be limited by the
amount of the required insurance coverage.
