MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
Substitute Resolution
RESOLUTION NO.: 20-06-06 DATE: July 14, 2020
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
APPROVING AN AGREEMENT BETWEEN MAGNA AND SALT LAKE
COUNTY TO RECEIVE $794,779.19 FROM THE SALT LAKE COUNTY
CARES ACT FUND FOR CERTAIN COVID RELIEF ACTIVITIES
RECITALS
A. The Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) is a municipality pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated (“UCA”) §§ 10-2a-401 et seq.
B. The Magna Metro Township Council (the “Council”) is the municipal governing body
for Magna pursuant to UCA § 10-3b-501.
C. Salt Lake County (the “County”) is a County pursuant to UCA Title 17: COUNTIES.
D. The CARES Act is a law passed by the Federal Government that provided for an
appropriation of funds to the States and certain Counties for certain governmental
emergency costs and economic relief efforts related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
E. In May 2020, the State of Utah and Salt Lake County received their CARES Act
appropriations from the Federal Government.
F. In late May 2020, the County, taking a cue from the State regarding the management
of CARES Act funds, and not compelled by the CARES Act to do so, decided it
1
; SL

would send amounts of their appropriation to the municipalities of the county to fund
and manage local COVID-19 efforts.

G. Pursuant to the County’s desire to promote local engagement in the COVID-19 relief
effort, Magna received the attached agreement (Exhibit A) on June 8, 2020 for
consideration and possible approval of Magna.

RESOLUTION

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by the Magna Metro Township, the Mayor and

Council hereby approves the attached agreement, Exhibit A, to receive $794,779.19 of

the County’s appropriation of the CARES Act (“Act”) funding and assumes all of the

Federal regulatory requirements, reporting rules, advertising costs, and possible future

liabilities of the use of these funds; and be it further

RESOLVED, all requested expenditures of CARES Act funding shall require
approval of the Council prior to the distribution of the funds; and be it further

RESOLVED, the Mayor and Council agree the expenditure of CARES Act funds
shall be as follows:

1. Reimbursement of Act-Qualified expenses incurred by the Unified Fire Authority
and Unified Police Department as Magna’s first-responder agencies;

2. Reimbursement of Act-Qualified expenses incurred by the Greater Salt Lake
Municipal Services District and its Contracted Service Providers as Magna’s
municipal-type services provider;

3. Reimbursement of Act-Qualified expenses of other Local Districts that provide
end-user municipal-type services to Magna including the Magna Water District,
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District, Magna Mosquito Abatement
District, and the Granite School District;

2
ee ee Oe ee

4. Reimbursement of any other Act-Qualified expenses that Magna incurs
directly responding to the COVID-19 pandemic.
erin" sien ADOPTED in the Magna Metro Township, Salt Lake County,
Uteh this /?— day of _(]/// 2020.
FOR THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP:
tit VU
DAN W. PEAY, MAYO
ATTEST
S y { os } w APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder
PAUL H. ASHTON
METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
VOTING i
Council Member Hull voting AW, WE
7
Council Member Peel voting “yy é
4s
Council Member Pierce voting # “A (4 c
ee Any gf |
Council Member Prokopis voting MEE
3
ne

CARES ACT FUNDING AGREEMENT FOR GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES
This Agreement (“Agreement”) is between Salt Lake County, (the “County”) a body corporate and
politic of the State of Utah, and Magna Metro Township, a governmental entity within the
boundaries of Salt Lake County (the “Grantee”). The County and Grantee are collectively referred
to as the Parties.
RECITALS

A. The County received federal funds under section 601(a) of the Social Security Act as added
by section 5001 of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (Public Law
116-136) (the “CARES Act”) to combat and address the effects of the novel Coronavirus
Disease 2019 (“COVID-19”) within Salt Lake County.

B. Pursuant to guidance issued by the United States Department of the Treasury (“Treasury”)
CARES Act funds are considered “other financial assistance” under 2 C.F.R Section 200.40
and subject to 2 C.F.R. Part 200 - UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS,
COST PRINCIPLES, AND AUDIT REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDERAL AWARDS, and
the Single Audit Act (31 U.S.C Sections 7501-7507).

C. The County is making expenditures of the CARES Act funds to assist citizens and
businesses in Salt Lake County in the containment of COVID-19 and to ameliorate the
economic impact of the pandemic and related public health orders.

D. The County has determined that the municipalities within Salt Lake County can play an
important role in helping the County achieve these objectives.

E. The County wishes to provide the Grantee CARES Act funding to help achieve these
objectives in the Grantee’s jurisdiction.

F. The Grantee’s unique entity identifier is .

G. The Federal Award Number for this project has not been provided by the Federal
Government.

H. The Grant Funds were provided to the County under the CARES Act on April 23, 2020.

I. The period of performance is as listed in Sections 4 and 5 of this Agreement.

J. The amount of funds obligated to the Grantee by the County under this Agreement is the
amount identified in Section 1.

K. The Federal Award Project Description is as provided in these recitals and in Section 2.

L. The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number is 21.019, pending completion of
registration.

M. This Agreement does not fund research and development.
THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:
1. CONSIDERATION AND AUTHORITY:

a. The County will provide $794,779.19 of CARES Act funding (the “Grant Funds”) to
achieve the objectives outlined in the above recitals, which recitals are hereby
incorporated by reference into this Agreement. The Grantee agrees to use these funds
for the objectives identified in this Agreement and will use its best efforts to achieve
these objectives in a manner consistent with the CARES Act and this Agreement.

b. Grantee’s signatory below certifies that the signatory has all necessary authority to bind
the Grantee and accept a grant from Salt Lake County from the allocation of funds to
Salt Lake County from the CARES Act.

1
a

2. ALLOWABLE USES: As provided in the CARES Act, Grantee will use Grant Funds
provided only to cover costs that-

a. Are necessary expenditures incurred due to the public health emergency with respect to
the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) (“necessary expenditures”);

b. Were not accounted for in the budget most recently approved as of March 27, 2020, for
Grantee; and

c. Were incurred during the period that begins on March 1, 2020 and ends on December
30, 2020.

3. PROHIBITED USES:

a. Grant Funds provided pursuant to this Agreement cannot be used as a revenue
replacement for lower than expected tax or other revenue collections. Other examples
of ineligible expenditures are contained in the attached April 22, 2020, Coronavirus
Relief Fund Guidance for State, Territorial, Local and Tribal Governments, and may be
further addressed in FAQs and other guidance currently available or to be issued by the
Treasury.

b. Grant Funds received pursuant to this Agreement cannot be used for expenditures where
Grantee, or any subgrantee or subrecipient, has or will receive funding from the County
for the same loss or expense if the amount of the expenditure exceeds the Grantee’s, or
any subgrantee or subrecipient’s, actual losses or expenses when added to any prior or
anticipated County funding. Grantee may similarly not use Grant Funds for Grantee's,
or a subgrantee's or subrecipient's, losses or expenses reimbursed under any other
federal, state or private program.

c. The Grantee agrees that the Grantee is fully responsible for compliance with federal
law and federal guidance regarding the expenditure of the Grant Funds. The CARES
Act and related guidance from the Treasury supersede any provision of this Agreement
regarding the lawful use of Grant Funds by the Grantee. Grantee may not rely on the
terms of this Agreement as a defense to unlawful expenditures of Grant Funds where
the terms of this Agreement are in conflict with the CARES Act or guidance from the
Treasury.

d. Grantee agrees, understands and certifies, that as a recipient of federal funds it is
required to, and shall, comply with all anti-discrimination and drug-free workplace
laws, and all laws governing research involving human subjects. Other federal laws
which may apply include but are not necessarily limited to: Equal Opportunity
Employer Executive Order, the Davis-Bacon Act, the Hatch Act, the Copeland "Anti-
Kickback" Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Contract Work Hours and Safety
Standards Act, the Clean Air Act, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Byrd
Anti- Lobbying Amendment, and the Debarment and Suspension Executive Orders.
Grantee shall comply with these laws and regulations, and any other federal, state or
local laws or regulations to the extent they apply to the subject matter of this Agreement.
For additional detail on Federal requirements that may be applicable to this grant,
subgrants or contracts see the Assurances for Non-Construction Programs (SF-424B)
or Assurances for Construction Program (SF-424D), as required by law, from the Office
of Management and Budget Assurances, which is hereby incorporated by reference into
this Agreement.

2
NN

4. EFFECTIVE DATE: The date this Agreement is signed by the last party to sign it (as
indicated by the date stated under that party’s signature) will be deemed the effective date
of this Agreement. This Agreement shall terminate December 31, 2020.

5. EXPENDITURE DEADLINE: Grant Funds provided by Salt Lake County pursuant to this
Agreement that are not expended on necessary expenditures on or before October 1, 2020,
by Grantee or its subgrantee(s) or subcontractors, must be returned to Salt Lake County on
or before Spm, October 7, 2020. Grantee may petition the County to retain allocated but
unspent Grant Funds beyond October 1, 2020. Such petitions must be filed in writing with
the County no later than September 15, 2020, and may be approved or denied by the
County, in the County’s sole discretion.

6. GRANT FUND GUIDANCE: Grantee must adhere to any current or future federal or
County guidance regarding spending, reporting or any other matter related to the Grant
Funds distributed to Grantee by the County. Further, Grantee shall require that any
subgrantee adhere to the CARES Act and any current or future guidance related to the
Coronavirus Relief Funds. Federal guidance has been updated regularly and can be found
at https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/cares/state-and-local-governments.

7. ADDITIONAL FUNDING: If the Grantee receives funding from another source intended
for a similar purpose (i.e. to combat and address the effects of COVID-19), Grantee will
reimburse the County the Grant Funds the County provided which have been spent by the
municipality and any unused funds, up to the amount of the other funding, within 15
calendar days of the Grantee’s receipt of such additional funding.

8. IMPROPER USE:

a Ifa County, State of Utah, or Treasury audit findings determine that any Grant Funds
received by the Grantee were expended in violation of the requirements of the CARES
Act, or any applicable law, Grantee shall return or repay those Grant Funds to Salt Lake
County within 15 calendar days of written notice of the determination.

b. Ifthe Grantee fails for any reason to repay the Grant Funds to the County under this
Agreement, and the County repays the Grant Funds to the Treasury, the amount paid
by the County will become a past due obligation of the Grantee to the County and may
be immediately collected by the County or the Treasury no later than fifteen calendar
days after request.

9. RECORDS, REPORTING, AND TRANSPARANCY:

a. Fora period of six years following termination of this Agreement, Grantee shall retain
documentation of all uses of the Grant Funds, including but not limited to invoices
and/or sales receipts. All payroll expenditures must illustrate compliance with the
CARES Act by detailed, daily documentation. Such documentation shall be produced
to Salt Lake County or the Treasury upon request. Any grants made by Grantee shall
similarly require as a term of the grant that the subgrantee shall retain documentation
and shall produce such documentation to Salt Lake County or the Treasury upon
request.

b. Grantee shall, each calendar month during the term of this Agreement, submit to the

3
NN

County a detailed report and accounting for how the Grant Funds were spent in the

, previous calendar month. At a minimum, the reports will detail the amounts spent and
the purpose, or the amounts paid to a subgrantee and that subgrantee’s purpose. Upon
termination of this Agreement for any reason, the Grantee will submit a final report
accounting for the final month of expenditures and providing a general summary of the
total expenditures under this Agreement.

c. Grantee shall, at least monthly, on its website, Facebook page, or other currently
existing internet-accessible site used by Grantee, post only the following information:
the amount expended and the purpose if for a government purpose, or, if funds are
provided as a grant or other assistance, a general description of the industry or group
receiving the funds, the zip code where funds were expended, and the amount of funds
provided to that industry or group. Grantees that lack an existing internet-accessible
means to post information and that are part of the Municipal Services District may
request that the District post the required information or may otherwise conspicuously
post and make the required information publicly available.

d. Grantee will fully cooperate with the County, the Treasury, and the State of Utah in any
investigations or audits into the use of Grant Funds.

e. Grantee shall comply with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations
regarding financial reporting and auditing, including but not limited to 2 CFR 200,
Subpart F.

10. SUBGRANTS AND CONTRACTS:

a. Grantee may use Grant Funds received pursuant to this Agreement to make grants for
further distribution to any other private or public entity within Grantee’s jurisdiction or
to contract for goods, supplies or services as permitted by this Agreement. Such grants
or contracts shall contain by agreement any required certifications, restrictions and
requirements for the use of federal funds. For any such grant or contract, the Grantee
is responsible for the documentation requirements in this Agreement.

b. Regardless of whether a particular provision in this Agreement mentions subgrantees
or contractors, a subgrantee or contractor must comply with all provisions of this
Agreement, including the fiscal and program requirements. Grantee retains full
responsibility for ensuring subgrantees or contractors comply with the applicable terms
of this Agreement, including provisions related to compliance with federal law
regarding use of federal funds.

11. CHOICE OF LAW: This Agreement shall be governed by the laws, rules, and regulations
of the State of Utah. Any action or proceeding arising from this Agreement shall be brought
in a court of competent jurisdiction in the State of Utah. Venue shall be in Salt Lake City,
in the Third Judicial District Court for Salt Lake County.

12. INDEMNIFICATION: Grantee shall be fully liable for the actions of its agents, employees,
officers, partners, and subcontractors, and shall fully indemnify, defend, and save harmless
the County from all claims, losses, suits, actions, damages, and costs of every name and
description arising out of Grantee’s performance of this Agreement caused by any act or
omission of Grantee, its agents, employees, officers, partners, or subcontractors, without
limitation; provided, however, that the Grantee shall not indemnify for that portion ofany
claim, loss, or damage arising hereunder due to the sole fault of the County.

4
Be

13. GOVERNMENTAL IMMUNITY: County is a body corporate and politic of the State of
Utah, subject to the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah (the “Act”), UTAH CODE ANN.
§§ 63G-7-101 to -904 (as amended). The parties agree that County shall only be liable
within the parameters of the Governmental Immunity Act. Nothing contained in this
Agreement shall be construed in any way, to modify the limits of liability set forth in that
Act or the basis for liability as established in the Act.

14. TERMINATION DUE TO NONAPPROPRIATION OF FUNDS, REDUCTION OF FUNDS,
OR CHANGES IN LAW: Upon 24 hours written notice delivered to the Grantee, this
Agreement may be terminated in whole or in part at the sole discretion of the County, if
the County reasonably determines that: (i) a change in Federal or State legislation or
applicable laws materially affects the ability of either party to perform under the terms of
this Agreement; or (ii) the Salt Lake County Council modifies or fails to appropriate the
funds in the 2020 budget. If written notice is delivered under Section 14, the Grantee will
return any unexpended Grant Fund amount to the County within 15 calendar days of the
written notice. The County will not be liable for any performance, commitments, penalties,
or liquidated damages that accrue for termination by the County under this Section 14.
Upon termination, the Grantee will provide the County with a detailed accounting of the
expended and unexpended Grant Funds within 15 calendar days of termination.

15. SURVIVAL: Termination or expiration of this Agreement shall not extinguish or prej udice
the County’s right to recoup or otherwise recover Grant Funds from Grantee as provided
in this Agreement. Additionally, termination or expiration of this Agreement shall not
extinguish or prejudice the County’s rights to enforce this Agreement, or with respect to
any default of this Agreement or of any of the following Sections: 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 15,
and 16.

16. FAIR DISTRIBUTION. Grantee acknowledges that the amount of Grant Funds disbursed
to Grantee and other grantees is determined in the County’s sole discretion. Grantee hereby
agrees that Grantee’s disbursement is appropriate and waives any right in law or equity to
challenge the amount of Grant Funds Grantee receives under this Agreement.

17. INTEREST. The Grantee may use any interest earned on the Grant Funds only for
purposes outlined in this Agreement. Any unused interest earned on the Grant Funds shall
be returned to the County as provided in this Agreement.

18. COUNTERPARTS: This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each
of which shall be deemed an original, and all of which together shall constitute one and the
same instrument.

19. SUSPENSION OR DEBARMENT: The Grantee certifies that neither it nor its principals
or any of its subcontractors is presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment,
declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this Agreement by any
Federal department or agency.

5
es

The Parties hereby execute this Agreement.
SALT LAKE COUNTY GRANTEE: MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
By: ‘ ye Ej/ . fies 3 By: ‘ ee “YY kb Z
Mayor or Designee {
Date: 7 —f V4 in ? Title: J ZI On a
Date: 7 a 3 4S =f Ge ?
Approved as to form for the County: Approved as to form for the Grantee:
By: i By: Luba ft
6
