                              MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL

RESOLUTION NO. 2023-04-02                                                                   April 11, 2023
                                                                                     DATE: __________

               A RESOLUTION ESTABLISHING POLICY AND PROVIDING
             DIRECTION REGARDING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF H.B. 374
                       (“COUNTY SHERIFF AMENDMENTS”)

       WHEREAS, the MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP (“Municipality”) is a municipal
corporation and political subdivision of the State of Utah and, with few exceptions, has the
same powers and duties as a city or town pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3c-103; and

        WHEREAS, the Unified Police Department (“UPD”) was created pursuant to an
interlocal agreement and currently provides law enforcement services to the Metro Townships
of Copperton, Emigration Canyon, Kearns, Magna, and White City (the “Metro Townships”)
as well as the Town of Brighton, unincorporated Salt Lake County (the “County”), and the
Cities of Holladay, Midvale, and Millcreek (collectively, the “UPD Members”); and

       WHEREAS, the Municipality, the other Metro Townships, the Town of Brighton, and
the County are also members of the Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area
(“SLVLESA”), a special district (previously known as a local district)1 that levies taxes
within its jurisdiction for law enforcement services and contracts with UPD to provide law
enforcement services to the Municipality and the other areas within SLVLESA’s service area;
and

       WHEREAS, the Salt Lake County Sheriff (the “Sheriff”) has served as the chief
executive officer of UPD and SLVLESA since their inception; and

       WHEREAS, during the 2023 Legislative Session, the Utah Legislature passed H.B.
374 with the intended purpose of dissolving UPD, raising questions about the provision of
law enforcement services within the Municipality and the other UPD Members; and

        WHEREAS, H.B. 374 sought to address concerns that the County Sheriff’s current
role as the chief executive officer of UPD and SLVLESA created a perceived conflict of
interest and possible double taxation for non-UPD Members with respect to the county-wide
services the Sheriff is required by law to provide to all municipalities within the County; and

       WHEREAS, to accomplish its objectives, H.B. 374 effectively removes the Sheriff as
the chief executive officer of UPD and SLVLESA, among other things; and

       WHEREAS, effective July 1, 2025, H.B. 374 will repeal Subsection 11-13-202(4) of
the Interlocal Cooperation Act (the “Title 11 Provision”), which requires the Sheriff “to
provide or direct the law enforcement services provided under the [UPD interlocal]
agreement;” and


1
  Effective February 27, 2023, all local districts in Utah were renamed “special districts” pursuant to H.B. 22
(“Local District Amendments”).

                                                 Resolution 2023-04-02
                                                      Page 1 of 6
        WHEREAS, effective July 1, 2025, H.B. 374 will also repeal Subsections 17-22-
2(1)(o) and 17-22-2(3) (the “Title 17 Provisions”) within Title 17 of the Utah Code, which
collectively: (1) authorize the Sheriff to serve as UPD’s chief executive officer as allowed
under the UPD interlocal agreement; and (2) the role of the Sheriff to serve in SLVLESA; and

       WHEREAS, because UPD and its related statutory provisions are unique to the
County as a county of the first class, the anticipated effect of H.B. 374 is to require the
Municipality and the other UPD Members to receive law enforcement services in the same
manner as municipalities located outside of the County; namely, through the creation of their
own police forces, contracts with the Sheriff or another municipality for law enforcement
services, or the formation of an interlocal policing service; and

       WHEREAS, in the near-term, however, the Municipality and the other Metro
Townships lack the statutory authority to impose property taxes or otherwise fund law
enforcement services outside of SLVLESA, which may limit their ability to fund and receive
law enforcement services in the same way as municipalities do that are not Metro Townships;
and

       WHEREAS, while H.B. 374 presents an opportunity for the Municipality and the
other UPD Members to build and improve upon the law enforcement services they have
received through UPD, implementing this goal will likely require more time than H.B. 374
affords, particularly if additional legislation is needed to provide the Municipality and the
other Metro Townships with the same authority as other municipalities to fund law
enforcement services; and

        WHEREAS, to ensure an orderly implementation of H.B. 374 and to provide certainty
to its citizens and its law enforcement officers, the Magna Metro Township finds that it is
necessary to adopt certain positions and provide direction regarding the Council’s goals and
priorities for the implementation of H.B. 374; and

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Magna Metro Township Council
that:

        1.     Direction to City Attorney: The Council directs the City Attorney as follows:

              a.      The City Attorney is authorized and instructed to engage in negotiations
        with UPD, the other UPD Members, SLVLESA and its members, and all other relevant
        persons or entities needed to implement H.B. 374 consistent with this Resolution; and

               b.      In consultation with the Mayor or Mayor's Council Member Designee
        (hereafter "Mayor"), the City Attorney is authorized to secure the services of any
        subcontractors that may be needed for the City Attorney to carry out their duties under
        this Resolution, including but not limited to the hiring of facilitators and economic
        experts to assist the City Attorney; and

              c.     The Mayor shall oversee and direct the City Attorney with respect to the
        implementation of this Resolution.


                                       Resolution 2023-04-02
                                            Page 2 of 6
        2.     Near-Term Objectives: It is the Council’s position that the development and
implementation of an adequate successor to the current UPD law enforcement model will
likely require more time than H.B. 374 affords, in which case:

             a.      The City Attorney is authorized and directed to negotiate a near-term
      law enforcement agreement or other arrangement that: (1) complies with H.B. 374 and
      the current statutory framework so that the Municipality will continue to receive law
      enforcement services following the implementation of the Title 11 Provision and the
      Title 17 Provisions; but (2) does not preclude the Municipality from considering and
      implementing other law enforcement arrangements in the long-term; and

             b.      Notwithstanding the apparent intent of H.B. 374, the Council finds that
      the Title 11 Provision and the Title 17 Provisions do not necessarily require the
      dissolution of UPD because they are specific to the Sheriff and do not modify the
      authority of the Municipality and the other UPD Members under Utah Code § 11-13-
      202 to execute interlocal agreements for law enforcement services, in which case
      reconstituting UPD as an interlocal policing service through a restatement of the
      current UPD interlocal agreement may represent the most available option for a near-
      term law enforcement model.

       3.      SLVLESA: Because the Municipality and the other Metro Townships may lack
the ability to fund law enforcement services outside of SLVLESA, the Council adopts the
following positions and polices related to SLVLESA:

             a.     Any law enforcement arrangement the Municipality may execute in the
      near-term under the current statutory framework will likely require compliance with
      the current SLVLESA funding model; and

             b.     The Council recognizes that H.B. 374 may require the County to
      develop a new funding model for the countywide services the Sheriff provides, but
      because such funding will benefit all municipalities within the County, it is therefore
      separate and distinct from the property taxes SLVLESA collects and manages to fund
      the law enforcement services that benefit the specific unincorporated lands within
      SLVLESA, in which case the Council supports the development of an agreement
      between SLVLESA and the County to fund the policing of such lands by the Sheriff
      or another law enforcement agency; and

             c.       While the Title 17 Provisions of H.B. 374 may require the removal of
      the Sheriff as SLVLESA’s chief executive officer, it is the Council’s position that the
      bill does not otherwise impact or modify SLVLESA nor does it allow the County to
      withdrawal from or dissolve SLVLESA because: (1) the bill did not modify the
      withdrawal provisions that apply to special districts that provide law enforcement
      services; namely, Utah Code § 17B-1-505 and 17B-1-505.5; (2) those provisions only
      allow municipalities to withdraw from such special districts; and (3) unlike a “special
      service district,” SLVLESA is a fully independent political subdivision of the State of
      Utah pursuant to Utah Code § 17B-1-103, and therefore cannot be dissolved by the
      unilateral action of any one of its member entities pursuant to Utah Code § 17B-1-


                                     Resolution 2023-04-02
                                          Page 3 of 6
         1301, et seq.;2 and

                 d.     It is the Council’s position that the funding SLVLESA collects from the
         County’s unincorporated lands does not constitute double taxation nor qualify as a
         subsidy that unduly benefits the municipal members of SLVLESA because: (1) the
         property taxes collected from the unincorporated areas of the County are not used to
         provide countywide services but rather to fund the policing services the unincorporated
         lands require, are proportionate to the large size of the unincorporated lands, and must
         remain with those lands and communities rather than be comingled with the funding
         the County provides to the Sheriff for countywide services; (2) the municipal members
         of SLVLESA also contribute property taxes to SLVLESA for the law enforcement
         services they receive that are proportionate to their respective sizes; and (3) while the
         SLVLESA funding model may allow SLVLESA’s member entities to reduce costs by
         pooling their collective resources, municipal participation in SLVLESA is voluntary
         and any municipality in the County, can join SLVLESA to realize these cost savings
         if they so choose; and

                e.      Because of the key role SLVLESA will play in funding law enforcement
         services to the Metro Townships, the Municipality calls on the SLVLESA Board of
         Trustees to hire a general manager and/or legal counsel as soon as possible; and

               f.      For the reasons stated above, the Council opposes any effort to withdraw
         or remove the County from SLVLESA or to dissolve SLVLESA; and

                 g.     To provide the Municipality with maximum flexibility in developing a
         long-term successor to the current UPD law enforcement model, the Council supports
         the development and passage of legislation that authorizes the Municipality and the
         other Metro Townships to fund law enforcement services in a manner that is similar to
         other municipalities, in addition to the SLVLESA funding model, and instructs the
         City Attorney, in consultation with the Mayor, to develop such legislation for the 2024
         legislative session in collaboration with the other Metro Townships and their
         respective city attorneys; and

                 h.     Because of the key role that SVLESA will likely play in the provision
         of near-term and long-term law enforcement services to Municipality and the other
         members of SLVLESA, the Municipality’s representative to SLVLESA is directed to:
         (1) to work with other members of the SLVLESA Board of Trustees to jointly request
         and participate in training from the Utah Association of Special Districts (“UASD”)
         on the operation of special districts generally and the specific laws and regulations that
         apply to SLVLESA specifically; and (2) if a joint training from the UASD is not
         possible, to request and participate in individual training from the UASD or the City


2
 As a special district, SLVLESA is separate and distinct from “special service districts,” which are governed by Title
17D of the Utah Code. Unlike a special district, a special service district is not fully independent and is ultimately
under the control of the municipality or county that created it. Cf. Utah Code § 17D-1-603(1) (authorizing counties to
adopt resolutions “approving…the dissolution of a special service district.”).



                                                Resolution 2023-04-02
                                                     Page 4 of 6
                                                                 April 13, 2023

                             Mayor Jenny Wilson
                             Salt Lake County
  Mayor Kelly F. Bush        2001 S. State Street
 Kearns Metro Township       Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
   lobkb973@hotmail.com

                             Unified Police Department
                             Marcus Stevenson, Chair
                             3365 South 900 West
                             Salt Lake City, Utah 84119

                             Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area
  Mayor Dan W. Peay          Jim Bradley, Chair
 Magna Metro Township        3365 South 900 West
  grandpapeay@msn.com        Salt Lake City, Utah 84119

                                    Re:     H.B. 374 Implementation

                             Dear Colleagues:

  Mayor Paulina Flint               Attached please find a resolution that sets forth the joint position of the Metro
White City Metro Township    Townships of Emigration Canyon, Kearns, Magna, and White City, as well as the
    pbflint@yahoo.com
                             Town of Brighton regarding the implementation of H.B. 374 (County Sheriff
                             Amendments), which the Utah Legislature passed during the 2023 legislative session.
                             Although the Kearns Metro Township adopted the attached resolution, the other
                             undersigned municipalities adopted nearly identical resolutions.

                                     Notwithstanding our initial questions and concerns about H.B. 374, we
                             recognize that the bill provides an opportunity to improve upon the current law
  Mayor Joe Smolka
Emigration Canyon Metro
                             enforcement model with the Unified Police Department (“UPD”) that has served our
       Township              communities well. As the resolution explains, however, developing a long-term
  joesmolka@ecmetro.org      successor to the current model that will stand the test of time will likely require more
                             time than H.B. 374 provides. As a result, we support the development of a short-term
                             law enforcement arrangement that will comply with H.B. 374 and the current statutory
                             framework. Such a near-term arrangement should ensure that UPD’s member entities
                             receive law enforcement services beyond the bill’s 2025 effective date but should not
                             preclude any of UPD’s member entities from considering or implementing other long-
                             term law enforcement models. To begin the process of developing a near-term law
                             enforcement arrangement, we believe the current UPD interlocal agreement could be
 Mayor Daniel E. Knopp
                             restated to comply with the requirements of H.B. 374 and have directed our city
    Town of Brighton         attorneys to explore the feasibility of this option.
danknopp@brighton.utah.gov

                                     We also believe that the Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area
                             (“SLVLESA”) is likely the only legal mechanism by which the metro townships can
                             fund law enforcement services. In addition, as a fully independent special district,
                             SLVLESA cannot be unilaterally dissolved pursuant to Utah Code §§ 17B-1-103 and
                             17B-1-501, et seq. Similarly, the withdrawal provisions that apply to law enforcement
                             service districts – Utah Code §§ 17B-1-505 and -505.5 – only allow municipalities to
withdraw and do not provide a mechanism by which counties can withdraw from such
districts. For these and other reasons the resolution explains in greater detail, we must
oppose any effort to dissolve SLVLESA or to withdraw the County from SLVLESA.

        Because SLVLESA must play a key role in funding any successor we may
develop to the current UPD law enforcement model, at least in the near-term, we call
on the SLVLESA Board of Trustees to hire a general manager and/or legal counsel as
soon as possible. We also ask the SLVLESA Board of Trustees to request training
from the Utah Association of Special Districts on the laws and regulations that apply
to special districts generally and, on the laws and regulations that apply to SLVLESA
specifically.

       We look forward to working with you to implement H.B. 374.

                                                      Sincerely,



 Daniel E. Kopp                               Joe Smolka, Mayor
 Town of Brighton                             Emigration Canyon Metro Township



 Kelly F. Bush, Mayor                         Dan W. Peay, Mayor
 Kearns Metro Township                        Magna Metro Township



 Paulina Flint, Mayor
 White City Metro Township



Enclosure

cc:    Rep. Jordan Teuscher, sponsor of H.B. 374
       Mayor Robert Dahle, Holladay
       Mayor Jeff Silvestrini, Millcreek
