RESOLUTION NO.:_ | 1 |- a2 DATE: //- 27-2417
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL APPROVING AND
ADOPTING THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP ANNEXATION POLICY PLAN TO
FACILITATE FUTURE LAND ANNEXATIONS INTO MAGNA
RECITALS

A. The Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) is a Metro Township pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated (“UCA”) §§ 10-2a-401 et seq.

B. The Magna Metro Township Council (“Council”) is a Metro Township Council pursuant to
UCA §§ 10-3b-501 et al.

C. The Magna Metro Township Planning Commission (“Planning Commission”) is the planning
commission for Magna pursuant to UCA § 10-9a-301 ef al.

D. The Annexation Policy Plan (“Plan”) is composed of an annexation policy for governing how
Magna may annex properties to become a part of the municipality and an attached map
noting the areas Magna may want to annex pursuant to UCA § 10-2-401.5 et al.

E. As Magna is a Metro Township in a County of the first-class, which does not require an
Annexation Policy Plan, Magna chose to develop a plan, per council policy.

F. Pursuant to UCA § 10-2-401.5(3) ef al, the Planning Commission developed the attached
Annexation Policy Plan and map (“Attachment A”).

G. After noticing and vetting of the Plan pursuant to UCA § 10-2-401.5(2)(a), the Planning
Commission forwarded the plan to the Council with a recommendation to approve the plan
and map on Oct 26, 2017.

H. The Council may adopt an Annexation Policy Plan to accept, consider, and possibly approve
annexation petitions from surrounding properties that may want to annex to Magna.
I. Itis in the best interests of Magna to be able to annex properties when surrounding property
owners desire to become part of Magna.
RESOLUTION
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Magna Metro Township Council, the Council
approves and adopts the attached Annexation Policy Plan and Annexation Map (“Attachment
A”) to establish the policy for the consideration of future annexations of property into Magna;
and, be it further
RESOLVED the attached annexation plan and annexation map be sent to the Chair of the
Salt Lake County Council thirty (30) days after the approval and adoption by the Council; and,
be it further
RESOLVED a copy of the annexation map be sent to the Lieutenant Governor’s Office
thirty (30) days after the approval and adoption by the Council.

APPROVED and ADOPTED in the Magna Metro Township, Salt Lake County, State of
Utah on this_ “7 Day of Ay Lie nfe rr, 2/)
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
1 Lf/ , CLL. Vi
Dan W. Péay? Chair
A } TL. D: APPROVED AS TO FORM:
RRIE SWENSEN
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER | METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
Voting:
Zn ifpbl
Councilmember Ferguson voting A} ft
Councilmember Hull voting “A J é
nye"
Councilmember Peay voting
jl
Councilmember Peel voting A Y, E
“Ayr
Councilmember Prokopis voting A VE

ATTACHMENT
CA?

Policy Now:
Annexation Policy Plan
Definitions
1. Magna Metro Township — The Magna Metro Township (hereinafter known as “Magna”) is an incorporated

Metro Township (hereinafter known as “municipality”) pursuant to Utah Code Annotated (hereinafter

known as “UCA”) §§ 10-2a-401 et seq.

2. Magna Metro Township Council — The Magna Metro Township Council (hereinafter known as the

“Council”) is the municipal legislative body for Magna pursuant to UCA § 10-3b-501.

3. Annexation Policy Plan — The Annexation Policy Plan is a plan for identifying and establishing the process
for annexation of unincorporated properties adjacent to Magna pursuant to UCA § 10-2-401.5.
4. Property Owner — The property owner shall be the owner of real property located within the boundary of
the proposed annexation area pursuant to UCA § 10-2-401(2) etal.
Purposes of Policy
The purposes of this policy statement are as follows:

1. To establish an “annexation policy plan” as required by UCA § 10-2-401.5 to provide for the
expansion of Magna at such time the property owner and the Council determine expansion hasbecome
prudent and feasible;

2. To aid the Council in its deliberations concerning the possible acceptance or rejection of any proposed
annexation;

| 3. To assure that Magna has adequate time to prepare for the budgetary and operational impact of
annexation; and

4. To minimize (a) disruptions to the Magna’s operations caused by the processing and evaluationof
proposed annexations and (b) any adverse economic impact on the municipality arising from any
approved annexation.

Prerequisites to Annexation
Any area proposed for annexation into Magna must meet the following requirements:

1. The annexation area is an area contiguous to the Magna’s then-current legal boundaries and islocated
within Magna’s potential “expansion area”, as defined in UCA §10-2-401(d).

2. Ifannexation occurs, the annexed area will not leave or create any unincorporated island or peninsula.

3. The size, location and configuration of the annexed area conform to all other requirements of the
annexation requirements of the State of Utah.

Additional Factors to Be Considered by the Council
Prior to accepting or rejecting any proposed annexation the Council shall consider the following additional factors:
1. The compatibility and historic identity between Magna and the area being considered for annexation;
2. The quantity and quality of parks, trails, open space, public recreation facilities and developable land
located within the proposed area for annexation;
3. The needs of the proposed annexation area for present and future municipal services and the plans and
capabilities for providing such services;
a All municipal-type services provided to Magna are provided by Local Districts, Interlocal
Cooperation Agencies via legally-defined service areas, or from regulated public utilities
operated in accordance with State Law. Though annexation will not directlyimpact Magna as
an entity unto itself, it may impact the Local Districts and Interlocal Agencies that provide
services. Those impacts are expected to be nominal, but should be considered by the Council
as a part of the annexation process.
4. Anticipated tax consequences to residents of Magna and the area being considered arising fromthe
annexation;
5. Concerns and interests of businesses and other affected entities located within the area regarding the
proposed annexation;
6. Effect of annexation on the development of land located within the area to be annexed; and
7. Common school and neighborhood ties between Magna and the potential annexed area.
Procedure
Any proposed annexation shall follow the processes pursuant to UCA §§ 10-2-401 to 428, et al.
|

eee ieee ee eee es Me eT
| |
| Davis Va |
County fo |
'
, \ < eh || 2 on b
| \ .
Y | Suaeas |
, . ; sry
. \ L
' y 4 Pr
\ - &G, }
: 201 : aoe U-201
= U-201 : % rt yy |
—— — - we = Sib FF it
ee | h 8 ogee |
~ ent , fs Ps UNINCORPORATED Pail See 3
| Teoote See.” eaeae|
Cour yore | \ =e aa . ir 47008 Bs]
| so nal — 5400s
jl ae oe | Sant Nl (M1
oP" \ ee _{ ae
i . — » IG, =! E pin h
iy F — gra 1
Me — SEE eee —s as ie ree i
