MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO.: 20-10-03 DATE: October 13, 2020
A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL ADOPTING THE EMERGENCY RESPONSE
GUIDELINES SECTION OF THE MAGNA-GREATER SALT
LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT EMERGENCY
OPERATIONS PLAN (EOP)

WHEREAS, an Emergency Operations Plan (“EOP”) can reduce the
vulnerability of citizens and community of the Magna Metro Township (“Magna” or
“Municipality”), a member-entity of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District

(“GSLMSD” or “MSD”), to loss of life, injury, damage and destruction of property
arising from natural, technological, or human-caused emergencies and disasters or
during hostile military or paramilitary actions; and

WHEREAS, on June 23, 2020 the Magna Metro Township Council adopted the
GSLMSD Emergency Operations Plan as Magna’s Emergency Operations Plan
(“Magna-GSLMSD EOP”); and

WHEREAS, one of the sections that was yet to be created for the EOP was the
Emergency Response Guidelines Section; and

WHEREAS, the attached Emergency Response Guidelines section
for the Magna-GSLMSD EOP, hereinafter to be known as Attachment
A, provides Magna the framework; and

WHEREAS, the emergency response guidelines section outlines and informs the
Mayor and Council as to local emergency communications, emergency event
communication and coordination with local districts, Salt Lake County, and the State
during the emergency event and recovery effort; and

WHEREAS, the Emergency Response Guidelines section allows Magna to
coordinate the response effectively and efficiently to a local emergency event; now
therefore be it

RESOLVED, the Council approves and adopts the Emergency Response
Guidelines Section to the Magna-GSLMSD Emergency Operations Plan
(Attachment A).

1|Page Resolution 20-10-03

PASSED AND APPROVED:
Passed and approved by the Magna Metro Township Council, Salt Lake

County, Utah 23% day of Jae, 2020.

ATTEST: FOR THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP:

phe sure LW, Ec

Sherrie Swensen Dan W. Peay, Mayor _

Salt Lake County Clerk

Metro Township Clerk-Recorder

APPROVED AS TO FORM:
VOTING: PAUL H. ASH ON
if | ATTORNEY
Council Member Hull voting Gi, VE
J ;
Mayor Peay voting “4 VE i
ys Uf,
Council Member Peel voting “i Vc t
f ;
Cee
Council membepete Mo sat
WE"

Council Member Prokopis voting ea
2|Page Resolution 20-10-03

Attachment A
Behind this page

Emergency Response
Guidelines
For
Magna

TABLE OF CONTENTS
STATEMENT OF PURPOSE 3
GOALS 3
EMERGENCY CHECK LIST 4
ANNEX A 7
ANNEX B 8
RESOURCES 9
COMMUNICATIONS 10
PLAN MAINTENANCE 10
EMERGENCY CONTACTS 11
2
Emergency Response Guidelines

PURPOSE OF THESE GUIDELINES
These guidelines are to help provide a means to PREPARE, RESPOND to matters of life safety and
property protection, during a major emergency or disaster for the elected and non-elected officials of the
Magna.
Emergency and disaster situations include, but is not limited to wildfire, flood, storm, earthquake,
epidemic, accident, chemical spill, technological hazards created as a bi-product of our modern
society, or other calamities endangering health, life or property of the constituted government.
GOALS
Priorities are (1) life safety (2) incident stabilization (3) preservation of
property.
o Maintain communications with local, county, and state
cooperating agencies.
o Assist to help maintain law and order.
o Assist fire, rescue, and Emergency Medical System (EMS)
response
© Declare an Emergency if necessary and facilitate evacuation
of residents if needed.
o Maintain accurate documentation throughout event.
o Return the Municipality to pre-incident operational level.
e CERT Teams, volunteer support teams, or similar type emergency response organizations, will
organize and respond to facilitate local communication prior to and during emergencies.
e Included is a recommended Go Kit for all elected and non-elected officials who respond the
emergency. This Go Kit is located in Annex A of this document.
3
Emergency Response Guidelines

EMERGENCY RESPONSE CHECK LIST
At the time of a major emergency or disaster, timing is important. This checklist is to help walk
the Mayor and/or Council Members through those first vital hours.

Phase I- Identify Roles and Responsibilities Prior to Emergency

| Planning, Preparedness, and Training are three of the Goals for Emergency Response. This Plan
requires the Mayor, Council Members, and their designates (Administrator, Clerk, etc.
managers?) to do the following prior to the emergency:

e Will carry a Go Kit (Items needed in Go Kit are found in Annex A at the end of the
document)

e All elected officials, and their designates will wear a safety vest and Municipal
identification on a lanyard, visible to the public.

e Identify who will be the representative from the Municipality that will respond to the
County Emergency Coordination Center, as directed in the GSLMSD Emergency
Operations Plan, when it activates

e Identify a location that the Municipality can set up a local Operations Center if possible.
The Operations Center should have the following capabilities:

o Phone Communications — Cell or hard line capabilities

o Radios

© Internet capabilities (WebEOC if possible)

o Office supplies (pens, pencils, note pads, sticky notes, etc.)

o A sign identifying Operations Center for first responders and citizens
*If unable to find a building, use of a pop-up tent, table, and several chairs may
suffice depending on the weather.

e Develop a transportable bin with those items needed at the Operations Center

e Identify who will be in charge of the Operations Center (can be Municipal Administrator
or whoever is designated by the Mayor and Council)

e Identify who will be the spokesperson for the Municipality and be able to speak to the
media. All messages to the media have to be cleared with the Incident Commander,
Unified Command, or in larger incidents the Joint Information Center (JIC), located at
the Emergency Coordination Center (ECC). This will help the spokesperson to
disseminate and communicate information that agrees with the JIC and the ECC.

e Identify who will represent the Municipality at the Incident Command Post (ICP). Have
them respond to it, identify themselves, and ask to be of assistance to the Incident
Commander or the Unified Command.

e Identify who will assume the positions mentioned above, if those designates are unable
to respond due to illness, injury, vacations, or personal reasons.

4
Emergency Response Guidelines

Phase 2— Pre-Notice of or Eminent Emergency

ee Ensure all family members are safe and accounted for

ee Gather all essential information on the emergency (if possible)

ee Determine boundaries of the emergency (if possible)

ee Local weather conditions

ee Status of communications-cell phones, landlines, radios

ee Status of utilities-gas, electricity, and water

ee Status of roads-any roadways that will or may be blocked

ee Status of all Council members and personnel

ee Advise all Council members of possible emergency

ee Contact Salt Lake County Emergency Manager or the Emergency Coordination
Center 24-hour County Emergency contact for any critical information

ee Contact all Local District Service Providers and advise them of the possible or
eminent emergency

ee Prepare to send designate to County ECC

ee Identify location of Incident Command Post in your area and send a representative
from the Municipality

Phase 3 — Emergency or Disaster Strikes — Declare an Emergency

ee Ensure all family members are safe and accounted for

ee Gather and update all essential information (if possible)

ee Determine and update boundaries of the emergency (if possible)

ee Local weather conditions

ee Status of communications-check phone and internet capability

ee Status of utilities-gas, water, electricity

ee Status of roads-blocked or damaged

ee Review Emergency Situation Assessment (Annex B)

ee Identify any hazardous conditions-lines down, hazardous materials

ee Try to determine access points into and out of the emergency area

5
Emergency Response Guidelines

Identify location of Incident Command Post and send Representative
Decide if an Emergency Declaration is needed
Contact Salt Lake County Emergency Manager or the Emergency Coordination
Center 24-hour County Emergency contact and determine level of activation of
the Salt Lake County Emergency Coordination Center-send designate to ECC
Declare a Formal Emergency using the appropriate form

Contact all Council Members and advise them of the declared emergency
Contact all Local District Service Providers and advise them of the Emergency
Declaration
Determine if you need to activate your Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP). If
so, activate your COOP and follow the COOP guidelines
Activate Community Emergency Response Teams (CERT)
Attempt to identify all evacuation and relocation sites available within the
Municipality
Develop a secure communications link with the designated representative to the
Salt Lake County ECC of situation

Phase 4 — Continuity of Operations Plan Activated- See COOP
Gather pre-identified critical Municipal documentation or equipment that will
need to be secured and/or moved
Advise representative at Salt Lake County ECC of Continuity Plan activation
Advise all Council Members and personnel of COOP activation
Advise all Local District Service Providers of COOP activation
Contact your pre-determined site, advise them of the COOP activation, and
determine status of Relocation Site. If site is available, then Move
Once at Relocation Site, ensure all forms of communication are operable. (Phone
lines, Cell, radios, internet, etc.)
Once Relocation Site is up and running, contact Salt Lake County Emergency
Manger, and representative at the ECC and advise them of your new location

6
Emergency Response Guidelines

Annex A
Emergency Go Kit
° Vest
e Magna-Authorized ID with lanyard
| e Driver’s License, or other State-Issued Personal ID)
e Flashlight
e Clip Board with Paper and writing utensil
e Several bottle of waters (not full, may freeze)
e Dried food snacks
e Coat and Comfortable boots or shoes
e Any medicines
7
Emergency Response Guidelines

Annex B
Emergency Situation Assessment
1. What is the area affected?
¢ What are the major crossroads or geographic reference point?
e Residential or commercial area?
o Residential (single family, condo/ apartments, trailer, multiplex)?
o Commercial (types of businesses)?
o Industrial (types of activities)?
® Hospital or Medical facilities?
e University or school area?
2. Are people being injured?
e How many?
e Are additional medical transport assets needed (Public Transit, Para-Transit)?
e Do Hospitals need to take decompression measures?
e Does an Alternate Care Site need to be established?
© Does the hospital require evacuation?
3. Are people being displaced?
e How many (population estimate)?
e Vulnerable Populations?
o. Assisted living homes?
o Disaster Registry residents?
o Daycare facilities?
o Senior housing?
e Are temporary reception centers necessary (busses, facilities)?
e Can we expect pets?
e Can we expect unaccompanied minors?
4. Are critical Infrastructure or are major transportation hubs threatened?
e Energy (power / natural gas facilities or distribution systems)?
@ Telecommunications systems?
e Water / Waste-Water Systems?
e Major fuel storage?
e Port / Airports / Rail?
e Major transportation corridors?
¢ Hospitals / Medical Clinics?
e Government buildings (local, state, federal)?
e Schools & shelter facilities?
5. Is commerce being disrupted?
© Types of vendors (retail stores, restaurants, warehouse / distribution centers, industrial
sites)?
e Supply chain disruption (roads/airport)?
8
Emergency Response Guidelines

Resources
A list of Emergency Management contact names is provided on the last page of this plan.
Agencies include:

e Salt Lake County Emergency Management-contact for help with issuing a disaster
declaration, UFA Wildland Fire Crew status, FEMA, S.A.F.E. Neighborhoods
program, Utah Department of Emergency Management.

e Red Cross DAT- (Red Cross Disaster Action Team), Blood, Psychological First
Aid (for PTSD and other emotional support programs), disaster agency referrals

e¢ MARC (Multi-Agency Resource Center)-provides on-site community meeting
opportunities with lawyers, medical and home insurance, muckers, construction
repairs, etc.

e¢ VOAD (Voluntary Organizations Active in Disasters)-Connects with specialized
church services such as LDS Church (food, clothing), Southern Baptist Disaster
Relief (muckers), Salvation Army (housing, food), and agencies like Habitat for
Humanity (builders)

e Amateur Radio-provides personnel and equipment to operate Ham radios.

e Team Rubicon-Military veterans who provide personnel and chainsaws to help with
tree and structure failure. In addition, medical personnel may be available.

e Salt Lake County Health Department-provides guidance with flood mitigation, sewage
contamination.

e Salt Lake County Aging Services-provides resources for housing, transportation, in-
home personal care, health insurance.

e Salt Lake County Medical Reserve Corps-provides health care volunteers to help
with floods, sewage contamination.

9
Emergency Response Guidelines

COMMUNICATIONS

e Phones (landlines and cell phones) will be the primary means of communication between Salt
Lake County ECC and Magna. Text communications are often the most resilient in a large-
scale emergency.

e Ensure all radios are operable. Test them.

e Ham radio is located at , and other locations. HAM Frequency is

. (If HAM radio is available)

e¢ Homeowners may be contacted in person, by text, internet, and/or social media. The municipal
website is available to update the public about disaster progress, as well as any social media
accounts.

e The Mayor and identified spokesperson for the Municipality who will be responsible for see
that all public information releases are approved and coordinated with Salt Lake County
Emergency Management Joint Information Center (JIC).

PLAN MAINTENANCE

1. The Mayor and Council will review these guidelines yearly.

2. The Emergency Response Guidelines shall be exercised and tested bi-annually or when
there is a change in administration for the Municipality.

3. These Guidelines shall also be reviewed after every emergency or exercise.

10
Emergency Response Guidelines

Magna Emergency Contacts
PUBLIC SAFETY
Fire/Police/Paramedics (EMERGENCY) 911
UPD Dispatch (Non-Emergency) 801.743.7000
UPD Magna Precinct (Non-Emergency) 385.468.9592
UFA (Non-Emergency) 801.743.7200
UFA Station #102 (Local Number) 435.649.7108
UFA Station #111 (Local Number)
Other Emergency-Essential Government
Road Conditions (ODOT) 511
SLCO Public Works (Includes Flood Control - 24HR) 385.468.6101
SLCO Flood Control (Non-Emergency) 385.468.6600
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (Sanitation 385.468.6325
(trash))
Magna Water District (Water and Sewer) 801.250.2118
US Forest Service 801.236.3400
BLM Public Lands Information 801.466.6411
Public Utility Emergency Response
Rocky Mountain Power (Electrical Service)
Power Outage Reporting 877.548.3768
Hazardous conditions reporting (i.e. Fallen power lines) 888.221.7070
Dominion Energy (Natural Gas Service)
Outage/Hazardous Conditions Reporting (Can Also Use 911) — 800.767.1689
MEDICAL
Individual Rapid Response/First Aid Phone
Utah Poison Control Center 800.222.1222
Hospitals Phone
Jordan Valley Hospital - West Valley Campus 801.964.3100
Jordan Valley Hospital - West Jordan Campus 801.561.8888
11
Emergency Response Guidelines

LDS Hospital 801.408.1100
Salt Lake Valley Regional Hospital 801.350.4111
U of U Emergency Room 801.581.2291
Primary Children’s Hosp. 801.662.1000
VA Medical Center 801.582.1565
IHC Hospital-Murray 801.507.7000
THC Hospital-Riverton 801.285.4000
Urgent Care Centers Phone
Exodus Healthcare 801.250.9638
St Marks Hospital - West Valley Emergency/Urgent Care 801.542.9292
Medallus Urgent Care 801.335.9223
THC Instacare - West Valley Instacare 801.902.8010
SALT LAKE COUNTY EMERGENY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
Emergency Manager- Clint Mecham
801-330-8491 (mobile) 801-743-7103 (office)
cmecham@unifiedfire.org
» Red Cross Disaster Action Team Toni Wise

801-440-8757 (mobile) 801-323-7002 (office) Toni.wise@redcross.org
» MARC Multi-Agency Resource Center

Toni Wise (see above) or Lisa Bagley (see below)

Emergency Contacts Cont.

«= VOAD Voluntary Organizations Active in Disasters

Lisa Bagley lisabagley@gmail.com
= Amateur Radios

Kelly Weldon hcleeyweldon@msn.com
« Salt Lake County Health Department 385-468-4124

HealthEMB@slco.org
« Salt Lake County Aging Services 385-468-3200 slcoagingservices@slco.org
* Salt Lake County Medical Reserve Corps 385-468-4100

12
Emergency Response Guidelines

13
Emergency Response Guidelines
