MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
ORDINANCE #: 18-12-01 pate: /2-/9- 20/9
AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL CREATING
CHAPTER 16.01 - INLAND PORT OVERLAY DISTRICT FOR THE PURPOSE
OF MANAGING THE LAND USE PROCESSES FOR PROPERTIES LOCATED IN
THE UTAH INLAND PORT PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE § 11-58: “UTAH
INLAND PORT AUTHORITY ACT”
The Magna Metro Township Council does hereby ORDAIN as follows:
RECITALS
WHEREAS, during the 2018 Utah State Legislature’s General Session, the legislature passed
Fourth Substitute Senate Bill 234: “Utah Inland Port Authority,” creating Utah Code Chapter
§11.58: “Utah Inland Port Authority Act”, et al; and
WHEREAS, one of the key sections of the bill requires a municipality with land in the
boundary of the Inland Port to create an Inland Port Overlay District to manage the local land use
process for properties contained in the Inland Port; and
WHEREAS, almost ten (10) percent of the property acreage located in the boundaries of the
Utah Inland Port are located in Magna, necessitates the establishment of an Inland Port Overlay
District for Magna for Magna to continue providing land use governance to those properties
located in the Utah Inland Port.
RESOLUTION
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, the Magna Metro Township Council does hereby adopt the
following ordinance, to be added to the Magna Metro Township Code of Ordinances:
Chapter 16.01 - Inland Port Overlay District
16.01.010 — Purpose: The purpose of the Inland Port Overlay District is to allow for the
|

development of an inland port as required in Utah Code Chapter §11-58: “Utah Inland Port
Authority Act” and its successor. Understanding certain real properties in Magna are included in
the Inland Port, this ordinance lays out the processes by which properties may be developed using
a conditional use to a permitted use and clarifies the process of appeals based on a denial of a
rezoning or a conditional use.
16.01.020 — Definitions: for the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are provided:
|
A. “Magna” means the Magna Metro Township, a municipality under State Law, or its successor.
B. “General Plan” means the Magna General Plan, or its successor Plans that may be amended
from time to time by the Planning Commission and Council.
C. “Planning Commission” means the Magna Metro Township Planning Commission.
D. “Council” means the Magna Metro Township Council.
E. “MSD” means the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, or its successor.
F. “Planning and Development Services” means the MSD-contracted or MSD Department that
provides land use planning services to Magna, or its successor.
G. “Planning Director” means the Director of Planning and Development Services.
H. “Mayor” means the Mayor of Magna.
I. “Board of Trustees” means the Inland Port Board of Trustees that also serves as the Board of
Appeals for land use decisions on property contained in the boundaries of the Utah Inland Port
as designated in Utah Code § 11-58.
16.01.30 — Applicability
A. The Inland Port Overlay District applies to all inland port uses that are located within
2

the Inland Port Authority Jurisdictional Land as defined in Utah Code § 11-58.

B. Land Uses: Uses in the Inland Port Overlay District are as specified as the designations
currently shown in the General Plan and defined in Magna Ordinance Title 19:
“Zoning,” that may be amended from time to time. This section does not prohibit land
uses that are listed as permitted or conditional in the underlying zoning district.

1. Conditional Use Process and Approval Authority: Any conditional use that is
within the Inland Port Overlay District is subject to the conditional use process and
standards found within Magna ordinance chapter § 19.84 — “Conditional Uses.”

a. Expansion of Existing Conditional Uses: A new conditional use is required for
the expansion of a conditional use when:

(1) Required by chapter §19.84;

(2) The land area of the existing conditional use is expanded by ten thousand
(10,000) square feet or more; or

(3) The use was previously listed as a permitted use and is now listed as a
conditional use and is expanded by ten thousand (10,000) square feet or
more.

b. Existing Development Agreements: The applicability of this chapter in
relationship to existing development agreements shall be determined based on the
terms of the existing development agreements.

C. Area: The boundaries of the Inland Port Overlay District shall be the same as the
authority jurisdictional lands defined in Utah Code § 11-58.
D. Application Requirements
1. Permitted Uses: Permitted uses located in the Inland Port Overlay District shall be
subject to the site plan review requirements found in Title 19 — “Zoning.
3

2. Conditional Uses: In addition to the requirements in chapter § 19.84, Conditional
Uses in the Inland Port Overlay District shall comply with the following additional
standards and application submittal requirements.

a. State and Federal Permits: Evidence shall be provided that the land use

applicant has acquired all required federal and state permits, unless the state

and/or federal permitting agency requires municipal conditional use approval

prior to their permit approval. If a state and/or federal permitting agency

requires Magna’s conditional use approval prior to their issuance of permits,

obtaining the state and/or federal permit shall be a condition of approval of the

conditional use.
b. Impact Mitigation Plan: An Impact Mitigation Plan that includes the
following information shall be provided in order to demonstrate compliance with
Utah Code § 11-58 and to measure the detrimental impacts a conditional use may
have on surrounding properties, the environment, and the ability of Magna to
implement adopted master plan policies. The items listed below shall include any
necessary descriptions, site plans, studies, reports, plans, and applicable state and
federal permits already received.

(1) A description of how the proposed development will meet or exceed
applicable state and federal regulations related to the development and
use of the property;

(2) A description of the potential detrimental impacts of the proposed
development on surrounding properties and the methods proposed by
the land use applicant to mitigate those impacts;

(3) A description of any potential detrimental environmental impacts the
proposed development may cause including, but not limited to, impacts
on air quality, surface water, and groundwater. The plan shall include
methods the land use applicant intends to use to mitigate any potential

4

environmental impact, including the extent to which the proposed
development will apply the best available technology or systems, and
best management practices and controls;

(4) A description of the potential detrimental impact of the proposed
development on migratory bird production areas, as defined in Utah
Code § 23-28 and the methods proposed by the land use applicant
to mitigate those impacts;

(5) A transportation impact study that states the expected number of trips
to be generated, the type of vehicles expected, and the times of day that
the most severe impact can be expected. It shall also detail the effect on
street capacity by the development, as well as nearby intersections that
will be impacted by the development's traffic. The plan shall identify
methods that the land use applicant proposes to mitigate detrimental
transportation impacts;

(6) The anticipated impacts on the storm water system and the methods the
land use applicant proposes to mitigate the impacts. This shall include a
technical drainage study which meets current Magna stormwater
detention/retention requirements; information regarding how the land
use will comply with any stormwater master plans; and information
regarding possible flooding hazards and how the land use will comply
with any flood plain development permitting requirements;

(7) Development must be in compliance with the water and sewer, and
public utility requirements of the companies and agencies that may
provide such services.

(8) An emergency response plan that indicates the detrimental impacts that
the development may have on its surroundings and public resources in
the event of a natural disaster or on-site accident and methods used to

5

mitigate the impacts.
| (9) A conditional use that is considered an Inland Port Use must meet
the objectives for an inland port use stated in Utah Code § 11-58.
3. Procedures:

a. Determination of Application Completeness: Upon receipt of an inland port
land use application, the Planning Director shall make a determination of
completeness of the application pursuant to the application requirements required
by this title. No processing timeline required by Utah Code § 11-58 or by this
title shall start until the application is deemed to be complete. An application that
does not comply with the applicable standards in this Chapter shall not be
considered a complete application.

b. State and Municipal Procedure Compliance: Magna shall comply with all
applicable application processing and noticing requirements as established in
Utah Code §§ 10-9a and 11-58 and all chapters of ordinance that may apply
to the application.

c. Third-Party Review: The planning director may request a third-party review of
any element of the mitigation plan required by this chapter.

d. Exemptions from Impact Mitigation Plan: The following conditional uses are
exempt from the Impact Mitigation Plan required by this chapter:

(1) Uses listed as a Conditional Use in the categories of permitted and
conditional uses of the underlying zone, but listed as a permitted use in the
General Plan.

(2) Uses not listed as an allowed use in the categories of permitted and
conditional uses of the underlying zone, but listed as a permitted use in the
General Plan.

(3) Adaptive reuse of a landmark site.

(4) Alcohol related establishments.

6

(5) Antenna, communication tower, exceeding the maximum building height
(6) Wireless telecommunications facility.
4. Appeals: Decisions related to inland port uses may be appealed by applicants using
| the following process pursuant to Utah code § 11-58:
a. Conditional Uses — If a conditional use permit is denied by the planning
commission, the application
(1) may be appealed by the applicant to the Council for review and
possible decision. If the application’s denial is upheld by the Council,
the application
(2) may be appealed to the Inland Port Authority Board of Trustees for a
final consideration and decision. If the application’s denial is upheld by
the Board of Trustees; the application
(3) may be appealed to the District Court for review and a final decision.
b. Rezones — If a Rezone Item is denied by the Council, the application
(1) may be appealed to the Inland Port Authority Board of Trustees for
consideration and decision. If the application’s denial is upheld by the
Board of Trustees, the application
(2) may be appealed to the District Court for review and a decision.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Magna, Salt Lake County, Utah this | D day of
Deember . 20\%
AN W. PEAY, MAYOR
7

ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
c / 7 ( (,
g 4 1
SHERRIE SWENSEN PAUL H. tt
SALT LAKE COUNTY CLERK METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK/RECORDER
VOTING:
COUNCILMEMBER FERGUSON MWe
COUNCILMEMBER HULL xis
MAYOR PEAY
COUNCILMEMBER PEEL Ska
COUNCILMEMBER PROKOPIS AM
(Complete as Applicable)
Ordinance Notice in Newspaper: Date
Effective Date of Ordinance:
8

SUMMARY OF
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. |% =| 2- O|
Onthe |9  dayof Dexcomber . 2018, the Magna Metro Township Council
adopted Ordinance No. |[¥-|2- 6 | , an ordinance approving the creation of Chapter 16.01:
“INLAND PORT OVERLAY DISTRICT” of the Magna Metro Township Code for the Purpose of
Managing the Land Use Processes for Properties Located in the Utah Inland Port Pursuant to Utah
Code § 11-58: “UTAH INLAND PORT AUTHORITY ACT”.
MAGNA METRO Yh
~ f
| By: A & WL CAL
DAN W. PEAY, Mayor
ATTESTED: Approved as to Form:
Sherrie Swensen, Salt Like C ounty Clerk Paull H. Me -
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder Metro Township Attorney
Voting:
Councilmember Ferguson voting Ate _
Councilmember Hull voting Ate
Mayor Peay voting hte,
Councilmember Peel voting kK +e,
Councilmember Prokopis voting PAY
A complete copy of Ordinance No. |%—- \2-6 lis available in the office of the Salt Lake County
Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.
9
