> Source: (not recorded — see minutes_index.csv)
> Meeting date: 2020-10-20
> Format: ocr

---

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 1 
The City Council met in Work Session on Tuesday October 20, 2020, 
in an Electronic Meeting, pursuant to Chair determination Salt 
Lake City Emergency Proclamation No. 2 of 2020(2)(b). 
 In Attendance: Council Members Andrew Johnston, Amy Fowler, Chris 
Wharton, Daniel Dugan, Darin Mano, James Rogers, and Analia 
Valdemoros. 
 Staff in Attendance: Cindy Gust-Jenson, Council Executive 
Director; Jennifer Bruno, Council Deputy Director; Erin 
Mendenhall, Mayor; Rachel Otto, Mayor’s Chief of Staff; Katherine 
Lewis, City Attorney; David Litvack, Mayor’s Senior Advisor; 
Allison Rowland, Council Public Policy Analyst; Lehua Weaver, 
Associate Council Deputy Director; Kristin Riker, Public Lands 
Deputy Director; Nancy Monteith, Engineering Senior Landscape 
Architect ; Brian Fullmer, Council Constituent Liaison & Policy 
Analyst; Nick Tarbet, Council Senior Public Policy Analyst; Nick 
Norris, Planning Director; John Anderson, Planning Manager; Sara 
Javoronok, Senior Planner; Michelle Hoon, Homeless Services 
Project Manager; Russell Weeks, Council Senior Advisor; Lisa 
Shaffer, Mayor’s Chief Administrative Officer; Amanda Lau, 
Council Public Engagement & Communications Specialist; Benjamin 
Luedtke, Council Policy Analyst; and DeeDee Robinson, Deputy City 
Recorder. 
 Guests in Attendance: Jeffrey Barrett, Rocky Mountain Power (Item 
#4); Holly Yocum, Salt Lake County Community Services Department 
Director (Item #8); Matt Castillo, Salt Lake County Arts & Culture 
Acting Division Director (Item #8); Doug Thimm, Architect (Item 
#9); Angela Vanderwell, Salt Lake County Arts & Culture Associate 
Division Director/General Manager-Eccles Theater (Item #8); Anna 
Laybourn, Design Workshop consultant (Item #5); Paul Nielsen, 
Applicant (Item #7), and Mark Greenwood, Applicant (Item #7). 
 
 Councilmember Wharton presided at and conducted the meeting. 
 
The meeting was called to order at 2:07 p.m. 
 AGENDA ITEMS 
 #1. 2:09:06 PM Informational: Updates Relating to Mayor’s Proclamations Declaring Local Emergencies for COVID-19, March Earthquake, Recent Protests, and Windstorm. The Council will 
receive an update from the Administration about the Mayor’s 
emergency declarations relating to COVID-19 (coronavirus), the

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 2 
March 18th earthquake in the Salt Lake Valley and the September 
8th windstorm. As part of the update, the Council may discuss 
public health and other public safety, policy and budget issues 
stemming from the emergency declarations. The Council may also 
receive information or updates from organizations or experts 
related to the emergency responses and coordination, including but 
not limited to earthquake damage to the City, the functioning of 
the Emergency Operations Center (EOC), City response and aid, and 
the status of City buildings. 
 
 Rachel Otto and Mayor Mendenhall provided a COVID-19 update: 
• Today was the highest numbers of cases to date in the State 
(1081) 
• 452 of those cases were in Salt Lake County 
• 14 positive cases in the Police Department 
• 16 Police Officers quarantined (down from 57 employees out two 
weeks ago) 
• 16 Fire Department employees quarantined 
• 11 positive cases in the Fire Department (since March) 
• Hospitals having to cut more elective surgeries to free up 
capacity for COVID patients 
• Hospitalization rates not static – not looking promising with 
the rate of increasing cases 
 
 #2. 2:13:33 PM Informational: Updates on Relieving the Condition of People Experiencing Homelessness. The Council will 
hear updates and discuss issues pertaining to relieving the 
condition of people experiencing homelessness in neighborhoods 
throughout Salt Lake City. 
 Rachel Otto briefed the Council regarding the Community 
Commitment Program, including: outreach efforts, resource fair 
being provided with various service providers, and a new employee 
on the Homeless Engagement and Outreach Team (HEART) - Allison 
Dupler – with expectations for focus on the Community Commitment 
Program and working on the Neighborhood Action Strategies Plan 
(final version provided to the Council by end of week). 
 
Councilmember Valdemoros requested an update on Advantage 
Services and their hazardous waste cleanup efforts over the past 
few weeks. Michelle Hoon said she would provide actual figures to 
the Council at a future meeting but noted in general there had 
been no issues mentioned, and target areas were attended to between

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 3 
one and two times a day. 
 David Litvack briefed the Council regarding preparations for 
winter overflow shelter, including: 
• Salt Lake Valley Coalition to End Homelessness (Mr. Litvack was 
serving on behalf of the City) had been leading the overflow 
planning efforts 
• Overflow shelter being provided at Saint Vincents (men only – 
40 beds) 
• Motel vouchers (80 beds/40 rooms – primarily offered to women) 
being provided in partnership with VOA & Utah Community Action 
Program 
• Stay Home, Stay Safe Motel (serving individuals with high risk 
of complications of COVID-19) continuing to operate through the 
overflow season (132 beds) 
• Efforts to implement/identify a non-congregate setting for 
additional overflow shelter for winter (needing capacity for 
150 beds – with motel setting preferred due to COVID-19 health 
risks (safer in rooms than open rooms with cots) 
• Funding available for additional emergency shelter was primarily 
COVID-19 emergency funds from the State/County/City 
• Goal to have last shelter plan in place by November 1, 2020 
• New provider Switchpoint expressed interest in running the 
overflow shelter this year 
 
 #3. 2:27:14 PM Informational: Updates on Racial Equity and Policing. The Council will hold a discussion about recent efforts 
on various projects City staff are working on related to racial 
equity and policing in the City. The conversation may include 
issues of community concern about race, equity, and justice in 
relation to law enforcement policies, procedures, budget, and 
ordinances. Discussion may include: 
• An update or report on the newly created Commission on 
Racial Equity in Policing; and 
• Other project updates or discussion. 
 Cindy Gust-Jenson provided the Council with general 
updates, including: 
• Council had completed the ordinance restricting acceptance of 
surplus military equipment 
• Police Civilian Review Board (PCRB); Council having had one 
discussion about enhancing the ordinance – Council Members would 
be meeting with members of the board individually to brainstorm

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 4 
ideas, create possible ordinance language, discuss budget 
changes with the Administration and expect a draft ordinance 
back to the Council by the end of the year (2020) 
• PCRB having full representation for all Council districts for 
the first time in several years. 
• Body-worn cameras items to follow up with Administration; 
logistical & administrative process items (retention and use of 
cameras), ordinance scheduled for the Council to consider in 
November with proposed revisions, and meeting with the 
contractor providing the cameras to gain better understanding 
on capabilities of the technology. 
• Racial Equity in Policing (REP) Commission continuing to meet, 
new subcommittees had been created, and a facilitator was now 
on-board (Council Staff sustains as support for the commission). 
• Police audit (for Police policy issues and informing a zero-
based budget) proposals returning to the Council by November 4, 
2020. 
• Budget Amendment No. 3 included an appropriation for the REP 
Commission for operations through FY 20-21 – due to advertising 
errors public hearing would be moved to Wednesday, October 28, 
2020 for a vote. 
 
 #4. 2:33:57 PM Informational: Rocky Mountain Power Service Briefing. The Council will receive a briefing from Rocky Mountain 
Power representatives about power outage response plans. 
Discussion will also include restoration plans when natural 
disasters occur. The briefing may include plans for infrastructure 
improvements and other related projects in the City. View Attachments 
 Nick Tarbet provided and introduction of the briefing and 
introduced Mr. Barrett. 
 
 Jeffrey Barrett (Rocky Mountain Power - RMP) provided a 
presentation and briefed the Council regarding system restoration 
following the September 8, 2020 windstorm, in summary: 
• 225,077 customers without service during peak of storm – 99% of 
all customers (including Idaho & Wyoming) restored by September 
14, 2020 with final customers restored on September 21, 2020 
(20,493 being Salt Lake City residents). 
• Mutual assistance was requested/answered with various external 
resources. 
• 55 tree crews were brought in to clear 2,537 trees.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 5 
• Windstorm was most significant in terms of customer outages in 
recent history (affecting 32% of RMP’s customers) 
• Prioritizations made in consultation with local municipalities 
(e.g. water infrastructure, schools, temporary shelters, 
detention centers, etc.), 
• Post-recovery inspections included: crews sent to repair damaged 
meter bases, low/sagging service wires, broken service masts, 
trees or branches on lines, and any unsafe conditions. 
• Recognized efforts/opportunities to improve, included: improved 
mobile outage application (currently in pilot stage), review 
real-time automated text/phone/email communication platforms 
for engaging affected customers, etc. 
 
 Mr. Barrett covered questions from the Council regarding 
restoration of underground powerlines, infrastructure improvements 
for resiliency of power grid, ensuring equity among customers, and 
being aware of service level differences between neighborhoods. 
 
 Mr. Barrett also reviewed the North Temple Redevelopment 
Plan, including: 105-acre site to rebuild RMP headquarters, 
proposal to include a new mixed-use community (green space, 
expanded transit facilities, etc.), and priority to be 
sustainable, emissions free, and all electric as possible. 
 
 Councilmember Johnston inquired about decisions on substation 
prioritization for mass outages (being made based on highest impact 
by number of customers), and if there had been research into the 
nature of the grid itself and differences across the City as it 
did not seem uniform in the way power was restored in different 
areas of the City (some lasted a week/some did not). Mr. Barrett 
said he would pursue the question and follow up with the Council. 
 
 #5. 3:24:55 PM Informational: Public Lands Master Plan Update. 
The Council will receive an update from the Public Services 
Department about community engagement efforts and plans for the 
new Public Lands Master Plan. The Plan will guide the ongoing work 
of the Division of Parks, Trails and Natural Lands and the Urban 
Forestry Division as the City's population and density continue to 
increase. View Attachments 
 Allison Rowland provided an introduction, noted the update 
was meant to comply with the Council’s Resolution 14 of 2020, and 
todays update focused on community engagement strategy.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 6 
Nancy Monteith, Kristin Riker, and Anna Laybourn (consultant, 
Design Workshop) briefed the Council with attachments, addressing 
topics such as: 
• Reasoning for a master plan being an opportunity to address 
parks and natural lands as essential elements for better air 
quality, climate change mitigation, energy efficiency, and 
environmental justice. 
• Plan identifying specific projects/initiatives that aligned 
Public Lands values including stewardship, livability, and 
equity. 
• Past and current steps included planning preparation (completed 
fall 2019 prior to Resolution 14 of 2020 adoption), and 
assessment of existing conditions (needs assessment completed 
April 2019). 
• Public engagement, and future steps included draft plan, 
adoption, and implementation. 
• Project extents included 70 miles of existing trails, 129.4 
miles of proposed trails, 1,694 acres of natural lands, 6,423 
acres of foothills natural area, Parks Division managing 735 
acres of parks, and Urban Forestry caring for 86,500 public 
trees. 
• First window of engagement was completed (open from August 26 
to October 14) with the administration of digital surveys 
(4,405), 21 pop-up events, six micro-regional events (focus 
groups), 17 community presentations; reaching over 7,000 
outreach opportunities with the community including over 200 
community stakeholders. 
• Goals/Metrics established for the project to reach 10% of the 
adult population (or 10,000) - with a response rate that 
reflected the geographic/ethnic demographics, providing 
multiple avenues to provide input (alternatives to digital 
engagement). 
• Frequency of use this year (compared to previous years): 43% 
increase in parks use and 41% increase in trails use. 
• Next steps included reviewing write-in comments, engaging 
stakeholders, and selecting a group to refine the list and 
return in January to share an initial list of considerations. 
 
Council Members Mano and Rogers expressed interest in small-
group meetings to discuss the transformational projects in further 
detail.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 7 
Councilmember Wharton inquired how the Public Lands Master 
Plan interfaced with other master plans such as the Trails Plan 
that was recently put into place. Ms. Riker said plans like the 
Foothills Trails Master Plan and Cemetery Master Plan would 
complement and encompass these more detailed plans into the Public 
Lands Master Plan. 
 
 #6. Tentative Break 
 
 #7. 4:12:40 PM Ordinance: Street Vacation Near 800 North and Warm Springs Road. The Council will be briefed about a proposal to 
close a portion of 800 North Street adjacent to I-15 and Warm 
Springs Road. The applicant owns the property to the north and 
proposes that the vacated area will be split between the owners to 
the north and south. The closure will not impact traffic or access. 
The subject right-of-way is no longer used as a roadway and is 
generally unoccupied. View Attachments Brian Fullmer and Sara Javoronok provided a presentation and 
briefed the Council regarding key considerations (Utah State Code-
Section 10-9a-609.5, City Master Plans, City ownership/use, etc.), 
and details of the proposed area to be vacated (adjacent to a 
former overpass from 800 West over I-15 to Warm Springs Road). 
 
 Councilmember Rogers inquired if a deed restriction could be 
placed on the newly vacated land that would prohibit billboards to 
be erected on it, discouraging further billboard proliferation. John Anderson said State Law was strict/protective over billboards 
and the City had ordinances in place that governed placement of 
billboards; however, the issue could be investigated. Paul Nielsen 
(applicant) added that it was his property with the intention to 
be sold and restrictions could be placed on it, provided that the 
purchaser would be agreeable to the restrictions. 
 
 Councilmember Mano inquired if the property owner to the south 
would have the option to purchase half of the vacated land, as 
they would if was an alley. Ms. Javoronok said she believed they 
would have the opportunity to do so. Mark Greenwood (applicant) 
said the property owner to the South had expressed interest in 
purchasing the other half and it was agreeable to both parties. He 
also noted there were no intentions to place billboards on the 
property and if the City wanted to ensure nothing was placed on 
the property, they were not opposed to any type of restriction on 
the deed (removing any ability to place a sign on the property).

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 8 
 Councilmember Valdemoros inquired about the proposed land use 
of the vacated land. Mr. Greenwood said the current use on the 
north side was storage of construction equipment and the vacated 
land would be a continuation of that use also allowing for 
additional street access on the south side of their yard. The 
property owners to the south (Directional Boring Company) would 
also use the newly acquired land for construction equipment 
storage. 
 Straw Poll: Support to hold one public hearing on this item 
instead of two. All Council Members were in favor. #8. 4:34:51 PM Informational: Eccles Theater 2021 Site Budget. 
The Council will be briefed about the Eccles Theater (Utah 
Performing Arts Center, or UPAC) Site operating budget for Fiscal 
Year 2020-21. The UPAC Fiscal Year operates on the Calendar Year. 
This is the annual presentation of the UPAC site budget. View Attachments 
 Holly Yocom, Jennifer Bruno, Matthew Castillo, and Angela Vanderwell briefed the Council regarding the Eccles Theater 2021 
Site Budget; County Mayor Wilson presented the current budget, 
including: 
• County was subsidizing next year for $1.8 million from the 
General Fund to preserve staff/operations at the theater 
• Eccles employees being redeployed to other County projects 
• City’s budget was tied to site operations for the theater 
• 2019 highlights included 57% increase in site activity (number 
of bookings), Tin Angel restaurant opened in September, Regent 
Street Black Box Residency Program launched in July, and 
festival activity developing on both McCarthy Plaza & Regent 
Street (Busker Festival and Urban Arts Festival combined brought 
2,500 festival attendees) 
• 2020 focus was primarily on health, safety, and financial 
management 
• 2021 budget challenges and opportunities included anticipated 
reduced capacity restrictions continuing through June 1, 2021, 
strategic expense reductions including a hiring freeze and 
redeploying County employees to other agencies, and finding safe 
site activation opportunities 
• 2021 budget highlights included presenting a flat operating 
subsidy compared to 2020; revenue increase at $18,328, with an 
expected increase in event revenue from restored activity 
beginning summer of 2021

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 9 
 
 #9. 4:52:53 PM Ordinance*: Zoning Text Amendment to Increase Building Height Limits in a Portion of the G-MU Zone Follow-up. 
The Council will receive a follow-up briefing about a request to 
increase the building heights within a portion of the G-MU (Gateway 
Mixed Use) zoning district from a current maximum of 120 feet up 
to 190 feet across portions of two separate blocks located between 
500 West Street and the railroad tracks (approximately 625 West) 
and 200 South and 400 South. The applicant is requesting the change 
for a specific development project and is not seeking to alter 
height limits across the entirety of the zone.*The Planning 
Commission forwarded a negative recommendation, therefore an 
ordinance was not drafted with the original transmittal but has 
since been added for the Council's formal consideration. View Attachments Russell Weeks provided an introduction and overview of the 
proposed ordinance and reviewed four motions for the Council to 
consider. 
 
 Councilmember Valdemoros expressed the importance of setting 
a timeline for the height study (for both sides; developer and 
City) within Motion II, ensuring time was not wasted if there was 
not serious interest. 
 
 Councilmember Mano suggested an amendment for Motion II for 
the City to only re-zone for additional height the one parcel that 
was under consideration for development, and to keep the other 
parcels currently proposed within the ordinance at the current 
height. Cindy Gust-Jenson said the amendment he suggested could be 
added to Motion II and include in the motion the intent to leave 
the remaining portions of the petition open allowing the other 
properties to stay in progress – not having to revisit the Planning 
Commission process. 
 
 Councilmember Fowler expressed concern, in regard to Motion 
II, with not having a foundation of what the Council believed to 
be a public benefit and selection on a case by case basis (until 
a height study could be completed) could potentially be perceived 
to be arbitrary. Mr. Weeks said it was his understanding that 
Motion II in no way pauses the proposed project until the height 
study was done and in fact was a way for the project to get started 
while the height study was underway. 
 
 Councilmember Johnston said he echoed Councilmember Fowler’s

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 10 
concern with Motion II, regarding undefined public benefits and in 
a way, asking for a trade off with zoning – allowing the new zoning 
designation only if the public benefits were received. 
 
 Katherine Lewis spoke to Councilmember Johnston’s concerns of 
requiring conditions in order to approve of the additional height, 
informing Council Members that it was legal and the City often 
required conditions prior to zoning, with those conditions having 
to be fulfilled prior to publishing an ordinance. (The concept not 
being unusual or unprecedented in requiring conditions.) 
 
 Councilmember Valdemoros requested an update from the 
applicant including a timeline, if any plans changed since 
submission, and noted her concerns about a large parking lot 
planned for the project. Doug Thimm (Architect) said there was no 
specific timing in terms of the development currently as it was 
largely dependent on being shovel-ready and when the right entity 
came into play. He added there would be a reduced need for parking 
due to it being near a transit hub; however, parking on a block-
by-block basis should be sought in a partnership manner so there 
was opportunity to reduce parking throughout the day/week (parking 
stalls get used 2-3 times a day instead of once a day), and having 
the right number of stalls to ensure parking was used (and not sit 
fallow). 
 
 Nick Norris added that the potential of having to determine 
public benefits applying to only one portion of the parcel would 
prove to be complicated; the portions of the parcel not within the 
extra height area would not be subject to the public benefit 
requirement or any kind of condition placed on it, making it more 
challenging determining any kind of public benefit that may be 
required (how to determine, value, measure, and judge it). 
 
 Jennifer Bruno added that this case was an unprecedented 
situation the Council was being asked to consider and would be a 
matter of tracking where the parcel was and making sure it was 
recorded and as the next applications came in (considering what 
the public benefits would need to be), there would be information 
in the record that would reflect that the Council said yes to this 
project because policy goals for the City were part of the project. 
 
 Straw Poll: Support to revisit this issue by the end of 
January 2021. All Council Members were in favor. 
 
 #10. 5:42:49 PM Board Appointment: Historic Landmark Commission

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 11 
– John Ewanowski. The Council will interview John Ewanowski prior 
to considering his appointment to the Historic Landmark Commission 
for a term ending October 20, 2024. View Attachments 
 Interview was held. Councilmember Wharton said John 
Ewanowski’s name was on the Consent Agenda for formal 
consideration. 
 
 #11. 5:48:53 PM Board Appointment: Historic Landmark Commission – Babs DeLay. The Council will interview Babs DeLay prior to 
considering their appointment to the Historic Landmark Commission 
for a term ending October 20, 2024. View Attachments 
Interview was held. Councilmember Wharton said Babs DeLay’s 
name was on the Consent Agenda for formal consideration. 
 
 #12. 5:55:13 PM Board Appointment: Historic Landmark Commission – Aiden Lillie. The Council will interview Aiden Lillie prior to 
considering her appointment to the Historic Landmark Commission 
for a term ending October 20, 2024. View Attachments 
 
 Interview was held. Councilmember Wharton said Aiden Lillie’s 
name was on the Consent Agenda for formal consideration. 
 #13. 5:59:51 PM Board Appointment: Business Advisory Board – Kristen Lavelett. The Council will interview Kristen Lavelett 
prior to considering her appointment to the Business Advisory Board 
for a term ending January 1, 2021. Kristen has been inadvertently 
serving unofficially since January 2017. The Administration would 
like to count this as time served towards her term limit and make 
this her final term. View Attachments 
 
 Interview was held. Councilmember Wharton said Kristen 
Lavelett’s name was on the Consent Agenda for formal consideration. 
 STANDING ITEMS 
 
 #14. 4:33:50 PM Report of the Chair and Vice Chair 
 
 Councilmember Wharton said based on recent feedback received 
from the public who wanted to speak at a scheduled hearing, the 
Council would be reverting to the older format where public 
hearings would be held individually in the order on the agenda 
followed by a general comment session later in the meeting. He 
added that the City Attorney advised there was a legal duty to

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 12 
ensure the public had adequate access to comment on the items. 
 
 #15. 4:27:52 PM Report and Announcements from the Executive Director. Report of the Executive Director, including a review of 
Council information items and announcements. The Council may give 
feedback or staff direction on any item related to City Council 
business, including but not limited to; 
• TANFF III Fairpark Afterschool Program Funding Grant – 
Request for Additional FTE; 
• Wasatch Choice Workshop; and 
• Scheduling Items. 
 See announcements. 
 #16. 6:03:37 PM Tentative Closed Session 
 Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Johnston 
seconded to enter into Closed Session for Advice of Counsel, 
pursuant to Utah Code § 78B-1-137, and for other lawful purposes 
that satisfy the pertinent requirements of the Utah Open and Public 
Meetings Act. A roll call vote was taken. Council Members Johnston, 
Wharton, Mano, Valdemoros, Dugan, Fowler, and Rogers voted aye. 
See File M 20-1 for Sworn Statement. In Attendance: Council Members Valdemoros, Wharton, Fowler, 
Rogers, Dugan, and Mano. Others in Attendance: Cindy Gust-Jenson, Jennifer Bruno, Mayor 
Mendenhall, Lehua Weaver, Lisa Shaffer, Rachel Otto, Amanda Lau, 
Benjamin Luedtke, Katherine Lewis, Nick Tarbet, and Cindy Lou 
Trishman. 
 
 The Closed Session meeting adjourned at 7:07 p.m. 
 
 The Work Session meeting adjourned at 6:04 p.m. 
 
 
_______________________________ 
COUNCIL CHAIR 
 
 
_______________________________ 
CITY RECORDER 
 
Chris Wharton (Jul 13, 2021 16:41 MDT)
Cindy Trishman (Jul 13, 2021 20:46 MDT)

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 13 
 This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript 
as other items may have been discussed; please refer to the audio 
or video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203(2)(b). 
 
 This document along with the digital recording constitute the 
official minutes of the City Council Work Session meeting held 
October 20, 2020. 
 
Minutes Approved on June 8, 2021 
 
dr

10-20-20 Work Session Meeting Minutes
(approved 06-08-21)
Final Audit Report 2021-07-14
Created:2021-06-23
By:Kory Solorio (kory.solorio@slcgov.com)
Status:Signed
Transaction ID:CBJCHBCAABAAoYOdOM0e4WK3xX_1wwtrKm6SULngvGYV
"10-20-20 Work Session Meeting Minutes (approved 06-08-21)" 
History
Document created by Kory Solorio (kory.solorio@slcgov.com)
2021-06-23 - 5:37:26 PM GMT- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document emailed to Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-06-23 - 5:38:21 PM GMT
Email viewed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
2021-07-13 - 10:41:03 PM GMT- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document e-signed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-07-13 - 10:41:10 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document emailed to Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-07-13 - 10:41:11 PM GMT
Document e-signed by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-07-14 - 2:46:07 AM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Agreement completed.
2021-07-14 - 2:46:07 AM GMT
