> Source: (not recorded — see minutes_index.csv)
> Meeting date: 2020-10-20
> Format: ocr

---

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 1 
The City Council of Salt Lake City, Utah, met in an electronic Formal 
Session on Tuesday, October 20, 2020 pursuant to the Chair’s 
determination and Salt Lake City Emergency Proclamation No. 2 of 2020 
(2)(b). 
 
 The following Council Members were in virtual attendance: 
 
Chris Wharton Analia Valdemoros James Rogers 
Daniel Dugan Darin Mano Amy Fowler 
 
 The following Councilmember was absent: 
 
Andrew Johnston 
 
Cindy Gust-Jenson, Council Executive Director; Jennifer Bruno, 
Council Executive Deputy Director; Erin Mendenhall, Mayor; Rachel Otto, 
Mayor’s Chief of Staff; Katherine Lewis, City Attorney; Sylvia Richards, 
Council Public Policy Analyst; Nick Tarbet, Council Senior Policy 
Analyst; Austin Kimmel, Council Constituent Liaison; Russell Weeks, 
Council Senior Advisor; Robert Nutzman, Council Administrative 
Assistant; Amanda Lau, Council Public Engagement/Communications 
Specialist; Cindy Lou Trishman, City Recorder; and Scott Crandall, Deputy 
City Recorder were also in virtual attendance. 
 
 The meeting was called to order at 7:09 p.m. 
 A. OPENING CEREMONY 
 #1. 7:09:17 PM Council Member Chris Wharton will conduct the formal meetings. 
 #2. 7:09:34 PM Pledge of Allegiance. (A moment of silence was held 
while the American Flag/Anthem was displayed on the screen) 
 #3. 7:10:30 PM 7:16:04 PM Welcome and Public Meeting rules. #4. 7:11:12 PM The Council will approve the formal meeting minutes of Tuesday, July 14, 2020 and Tuesday, September 15, 2020. View Minutes 
Councilmember Rogers moved and Councilmember Dugan seconded to approve the minutes, which motion carried, all members present voted 
aye, except Councilmember Fowler, who was absent for the vote (roll 
call). (M 20-3)

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 2 
#5. 7:12:15 PM The Council will consider adopting a joint ceremonial resolution with Mayor Mendenhall declaring November as Native American Heritage Month in Salt Lake City. View Attachment 
The resolution was read by Councilmember Valdemoros after which it 
was presented to Moroni Benally, Restoring Ancestral Winds. Mr. Benally 
thanked the Council/Mayor and asked for their continued 
commitment/support to address issues facing indigenous people of color. 
Note: The Council moved to the next agenda item (failing to make a 
formal motion on this item). (R 20-1) B. PUBLIC HEARINGS 7:16:04 PM 
 
 Note: Comments/materials submitted to the City Council have been attached as part of the official record. Click link to view. https://www.slc.gov/council/virtual-meeting-comments/ 
 
7:19:03 PM Note: Items B1-B8 will be heard as one public hearing. 
 
 Sylvia Richards, Council Public Policy Analyst, introduced the 
eight attached grant items. 
 
 #1. Grant Application: COVID-19 Local Response Initiative: Fiscal Health and Equity Initiative 
The Council will accept public comment for a technical assistance 
request to Bloomberg Philanthropies. If awarded, the request would grant 
technical assistance and networking to help the City recover financially 
from COVID-19. This would include new strategies to support more 
equitable and financially sound practices. Mayor Mendenhall, the City’s 
Chief Financial Officer, and the City’s Budget Director would participate 
in the process. View Attachment (B 20-3) 
 
There were no public comments. 
 
 #2. Grant Application: Main Library YouthCity School-age Program Grant 2020 
The Council will accept public comment for a grant application 
request from the Division of Youth & Family Services. If approved, the 
funding would expand the number of youth participants in YouthCity Main 
Library activities during the 2020-21 school year. This funding helps 
meet out-of-school time programming needs of youth and families due to 
the COVID-19 pandemic. View Attachment (B 20-3)

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 3 
There were no public comments. 
 
 #3. Grant Application: Plaza 349 YouthCity School-age Program Grant 2020 
The Council will accept public comment for a grant application 
request from the Division of Youth & Family Services. If approved, the 
funding would expand the number of youth participants in YouthCity Plaza 
349 activities during the 2020-2021 school year. This funding helps meet 
out-of-school time programming needs of youth and families due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. View Attachment (B 20-3) 
 
There were no public comments. 
 
 #4. Grant Application: Sorenson Center YouthCity School-age Program Grant 2020 
The Council will accept public comment for a grant application 
request from the Division of Youth & Family Services. If approved, the 
funding would expand the number of youth participants in YouthCity 
Sorenson Center activities during the 2020-21 school year. This funding 
helps meet out-of-school time programming needs of youth and families 
due to the COVID-19 pandemic. View Attachment (B 20-3) 
 
There were no public comments. 
 
 #5. Grant Application: Liberty Park YouthCity School-age Program Grant 2020 
The Council will accept public comment for a grant application 
request from the Division of Youth & Family Services. If approved, the 
funding would expand operating hours of YouthCity Liberty Park activities 
during the 2020-21 school year. This funding helps meet out-of-school 
time programming needs of youth and families due to the COVID-19 
pandemic. View Attachment (B 20-3) 
 
There were no public comments. 
 
 #6. Grant Application: Fairmont Park YouthCity School-age Program Grant 2020 
The Council will accept public comment for a grant application 
request from the Division of Youth & Family Services. If approved, the 
funding would expand operating hours of YouthCity Fairmont Park 
activities during the 2020-21 school year. This funding helps meet out-
of-school time programming needs of youth and families due to the COVID-
19 pandemic. View Attachment (B 20-3)

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 4 
 
There were no public comments. 
 
 #7. Grant Application: State Asset Forfeiture Grant 2021 
The Council will accept public comment for a grant application 
request from the Police Department to the State of Utah Commission on 
Criminal and Juvenile Justice. If approved, the funding would be used 
for narcotics-related training and confidential informant funds. View Attachment (B 20-3) 
 Eliza McKinney, Emily Alworth, Anne Charles and Pamela Starley spoke 
about Item 7. Comments included limited details about training (vague 
grant description), wasting money on narcotics enforcement when evidence 
showed law enforcement did not curb drug use (exacerbates addiction 
problems), funding treatment facilities/service providers instead of 
police, concern about funding confidential informants (evidence showed 
programs were problematic), utilizing police audit to analyze/explain 
costs relating to police work outside of standard practice, and potential 
multimillion dollar grant fraud relating to Utah Department of 
Corrections (Salt Lake Tribune article date April 14, 2020). 
 
 #8. Grant Application: 2020 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance (JAG) Grant 
The Council will accept public comment for a grant application 
request from the Police Department to the U.S. Department of Justice 
Bureau of Justice Assistance. If awarded, the funds would be used to 
provide travel and training for sworn and civilian staff, Salt Lake 
Information Center training, and crime lab unit professional staff 
development training, among other items. View Attachment (B 20-3) 
 
 There were no public comments. 
 
Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Mano seconded to close the public hearing and defer Items B1-B8 to a future meeting, which 
motion carried, all members present voted aye, (roll call). 
 
8:09:20 PM Councilmember Wharton said he was just informed the Grant 
Hearing Applications items for YouthCity needed to be approved tonight 
to avoid having to cover the funds through Fund Balance. He asked for a 
motion to reconsider the prior action. 
 
Councilmember Rogers moved and Councilmember Fowler seconded to reconsider the original motion, which motion carried, all members present 
voted aye (roll call).

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 5 
Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Dugan seconded to close the public hearing and refer Items B1-B6 to tonight’s Consent Agenda and defer action on Items B7-B8, which motion carried, all members 
present voted aye (roll call). 
 #9. 7:29:14 PM Ordinance: Demolition of Dangerous or Boarded Buildings 
The Council will accept public comment and consider adopting changes 
to the City’s Demolition ordinance. The proposed changes are intended to 
streamline the process for demolitions on commercial and residential 
properties, remove the requirement for a replacement use, landscape plan 
and bond, and provide clarity to the enforcement process for boarded 
buildings. Chapters 18.48, 18.64 and 2.21.030 of the Salt Lake City Code 
will be amended as part of this proposal. 
*Note, a previous agenda occurrence incorrectly listed Chapter 18.84 
instead of 18.48. View Attachment 
 
 Nick Tarbet, Council Senior Policy Analyst, introduced the attached 
proposal and specified this was the second public hearing on the item. 
Councilmember Wharton asked if language was added to the ordinance 
regarding landscaping requirements. Mr. Tarbet said that language was 
still being worked on and would come back to the Council for further 
review. 
 Nigel Swaby, Robert Danielson, and George Chapman spoke in support 
of the proposal. Comments included negative impact of boarded structures 
on neighborhoods (blight/public nuisance, increased crime/drugs, sex 
trafficking, fires caused by squatters, etc.), public safety issues for 
homeowners/businesses/unsheltered populations, proposal would help 
fight/deter criminal behavior, City needing to continually fine-tune 
ordinance to ensure buildings were actually demolished (not just 
boarded), potential to convert demolished buildings/vacant land to 
parking lots, and demolishing vacant buildings on City-owned properties 
(like Mattress Company). 
 Janet Hemming and Anne Charles expressed concerns about proposed 
changes being a one-size-fits-all (potential to greatly damage 
neighborhoods), changes to Section 18.64 being most disturbing/damaging, 
and other detrimental changes relating to requirements for performance 
bonds, landscaping, and public notification. Ms. Hemming said fast-
tracking the demolition process would have destructive consequences and 
asked the Council to not approve proposed guidelines until amendments 
were made to preserve/protect homes in City neighborhoods. Ms. Charles 
added concerns about corporations/developers buying/compiling large 
quantities of land for future development. She said this could have a 
detrimental impact on low-income residents/unemployed who were 
struggling to find/maintain housing and did not support the proposal.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 6 
Councilmember Mano moved and Councilmember Valdemoros seconded to continue the public hearing to a future meeting, which motion carried, 
all members present voted aye (roll call). (O 20-16) 
 #10. 7:41:09 PM Ordinance: Zoning Map Amendment for 402 and 416 East 900 South (Southeast Market) 
The Council will accept public comment and consider adopting an 
ordinance that would rezone the parcels located at 402 and 416 East 900 
South from RB (Residential/Business District) and CN (Neighborhood 
Commercial District) to CB (Community Business District). Currently, 
these parcels fall within two different zoning districts and the parcel 
at 416 East Street is “split zoned” both RB and CN. The applicants would 
like to rezone to one zone for consistency. No development plans have 
been submitted at this time. Although the applicant has requested that 
the property be rezoned to CB, consideration may be given to rezoning 
the property to another zoning district with similar characteristics. 
Petition No. PLNPCM2018-01025. View Attachment 
 Mr. Tarbet introduced the attached proposal and specified this was 
the second public hearing on the item. 
 Bruce Shapiro said he was an attorney representing an adjacent 
property owner who was being impacted by the proposal. He spoke about 
potential for more intensive commercial uses, request being akin to “spot 
zoning”, concerns about increasing density with no future plans for site, 
proposal intended to fix current “split-zone” issue (not a justification 
for allowing more intensive use), potential to change Southeast Market 
to existing RB zone, area being mainly single-family residential (not 
compatible with existing historic neighborhood), and approving proposal 
could spur numerous requests for commercial properties and multi-family 
units in surrounding areas. 
 Kathia Dang, Petitioner, spoke in support of the proposal. Comments 
included intent to rectify split-zone issue, commercial business 
operating for 80 years, adverse/false claims being made about project 
objectives, having sincere desire to do right by the community, property 
playing essential role in the City’s master plan for the future of the 
9-Line corridor (intention to revitalize block face), supporting local 
small businesses, and creating space/culture to bring people together 
(defining a place in this shared residential commercial node). George Chapman spoke about the Southeast Market not being affected 
by proposed zoning change, 9-Line trail impacting adjoining residential 
properties/neighborhood (would probably encourage more development), 
providing more public outreach to ensure residents understood proposal 
(real impact of zoning change, parking issues, etc.), and identifying

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 7 
changes the City had planned for the area/street/9-Line trail. 
 
Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Mano seconded to close the public hearing and adopt Ordinance 47 of 2020. 
7:49:43 PM Councilmember Mano commented on the proposal. He thanked 
the public/applicant for their patience/input during this lengthy 
process. He said after carefully reviewing the proposal and considering 
all public comments (60% in support), he felt the application would not 
materially change the trajectory of the neighborhood but would allow 
positive transformations already occurring to continue. 
Councilmember Wharton called for the question, which motion 
carried, all members present voted aye (roll call). (P 19-18) 
 #11. 7:53:20 PM Ordinance: Early Notification Text Amendment 
The Council will accept public comment and consider adopting an 
ordinance that would approve various changes to the Salt Lake City Code 
relating to early notification of the public and recognized community 
organizations for land use projects. The Council initiated this petition 
to clarify early notification regulations and public outreach. The 
purpose of the proposed changes is to increase awareness and 
participation by the public for various types of City projects while 
still providing a timely review process for applicants. Related 
provisions of the City Code may also be amended as part of this petition. View Attachment Mr. Tarbet introduced the attached proposal and specified this was 
the second public hearing on the item. He said Staff was still working 
with the Administration to refine the proposal. Jason Stevenson, East Liberty Park Community Organization, spoke 
about determining whether a project merited closer attention (who makes 
determination, decides course of action), all projects having an 
automatic baseline status with options to increase the level of community 
engagement/input, types of public notice (e-mails, mailing, property 
postings, etc.), and potential for recognized community organizations to 
plan events (zoom calls, street meetings, etc.) to discuss proposal with 
support of City/Planning. 
Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Dugan seconded to continue the public hearing to a future meeting. 
 
Discussion was held with Staff regarding the ability for 
constituents to provide further comments on proposed changes previously 
mentioned by Mr. Tarbet. Councilmember Mano requested clarification

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 8 
regarding the public’s ability to provide additional comments when public 
hearings were continued. Ms. Gust-Jenson said the Council could amend 
the motion to allow additional comments. After further discussion, the 
following amended motion was made. 
 
Councilmember Mano said he wanted to have the same provision for 
Item 9 (Demolition ordinance) since additional changes were also being 
considered (public needing ability to address new information). 
Councilmember Wharton said that could not be included as part of this 
motion, but the Council could make that decision at the next Council 
meeting. 
 
Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Dugan seconded to 
amend the motion to continue the public hearing to a future meeting with the understanding that constituents (who spoke at this hearing, would be allowed to speak at the continued hearing), which motion carried, all 
members present voted aye (roll call). (P 20-4) 
 #12. 8:01:22 PM Ordinance: Text Amendments to the RMF-30 Low Density Multi- Family Residential Zoning District 
The Council will accept public comment and consider adopting an 
ordinance that would amend the RMF-30 (Low Density Multi- Family 
Residential) Zoning District and corresponding sections of Salt Lake 
City’s Zoning Ordinance. The changes aim to remove zoning barriers to 
multi-family housing developments in RMF-30 zoned areas of the City. 
Proposed changes include: 
1. Introducing design standards for all new development 
2. Allowing the construction of new building types including 
 sideways row houses, cottage developments, and tiny houses 
3. Reducing minimum lot area requirements per unit 
4. Removing lot width minimum requirements 
5. Allowing more than one primary structure on a lot 
6. Granting a density bonus for the retention of an existing 
 structure 
7. Introducing a lot width maximum to discourage land banking 
 Related sections of Title 21A – Zoning may also be amended as 
 part of this petition. Petition No. PLNPCM2019-00313. View Attachment Mr. Tarbet introduced the attached proposal and specified 
additional analysis was being conducted and the item would come back to 
Council for further consideration. Nigel Swaby spoke in support of the proposal. Comments included 
making the project viable, allowing construction of different housing 
types (cottages, tiny homes, etc.), lowering restrictions of lot

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 9 
size/frontage, neighbors being more likely to support projects with 
smaller homes, and adopting proposal as soon as possible. 
 Janet Hemming and George Chapman spoke in opposition of the 
proposal. Comments included potential to harm affordable housing (being 
the exact opposite of what the City was trying to accomplish), potential 
for land costs/density to increase housing costs, gentrification in 
historic neighborhoods, proposal putting property owners in historic 
districts at a greater disadvantage, delaying approval/effective date 
until the City considered/enacted updated ordinances for housing 
demolition/mitigation and inclusionary zoning, 56 homes being lost in 
Yalecrest since 2000 (being replaced by million dollars home which were 
subsequently being sold at even higher prices suggesting profit motive), 
City should consider requiring property owners, opting for demolition, 
to contribute 15% of new building costs to a housing trust fund to be 
used for affordable housing in other areas, making an affordable housing 
overlay available to everyone before passing the RMF 30 zoning amendment, 
proposal pushing developers to make more money, developers redeveloping 
properties to market rate then ousting all low-income tenants (similar 
to Hawthorne Apartments), inclusionary zoning being the only thing that 
could mitigate disastrous proposal, and utilizing vacant City-owned 
properties for affordable housing. 
 
Councilmember Rogers moved and Councilmember Mano seconded to continue the public hearing, which motion carried, all members present 
voted aye (roll call). (P 20-21) 
 #13. 8:13:58 PM Ordinance: Cemetery Master Plan 
The Council will accept public comment and consider adopting an 
ordinance that would approve the updated draft Master Plan for The Salt 
Lake City Cemetery. The City’s 120-acre cemetery is located in the 
Avenues neighborhood and opened officially in 1849. It is facing 
challenges similar to those experienced by other historic cemeteries, 
including dwindling capacity, limited expansion opportunities and 
funding challenges. The draft Master Plan includes ideas and 
recommendations to capitalize on the cemetery as a valuable community 
open space and provide recommendations to fund its deferred maintenance 
and perpetual care. View Attachment 
 Austin Kimmel, Council Constituent Liaison, introduced the attached 
proposal and specified this was the second public hearing on the item. 
 Emily Alworth spoke in support of the proposal. Comments included 
interest in creating an arboretum (similar to other major cities), 
installing signage (identifying tree types), and potential for memorial 
plaques on trees (existing/new).

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 10 
Pamela Starley expressed concerns about submitting emails to the 
Council but never receiving a response (not sure if being received) and 
$30 million price tag being too high. She challenged master plan 
designers to find ways to cut costs (cheaper chairs/benches, less 
expensive wall stones, etc.) 
 
Councilmember Mano moved and Councilmember Fowler seconded to close the public hearing and adopt Ordinance 48 of 2020, adopting the Salt Lake City Cemetery Master Plan, which motion carried, all members present 
voted aye (roll call). (T 20-4) 
 #14. 8:20:24 PM Ordinance: Rezone and Master Plan Amendment at 833 South 800 East (Telegraph Exchange Lofts) 
The Council will accept public comment and consider adopting an 
ordinance that would amend the zoning map and future land use map for 
property located at 833 South 800 East. If approved, the property would 
be rezoned from R-2 (Single & Two-Family Residential) zoning designation 
to RMF-45 (Moderate/High-Density Multi-family Residential). The future 
land use map designation would change from “Low-Density Residential” to 
"Medium/High Density Residential." The applicant also owns the adjacent 
property at 847 East 800 South (the Telegraph Exchange Building). Under 
the proposal, the two properties would be consolidated into one parcel 
for the development of 23 residential units. Consideration may be given 
to another zoning district with similar characteristics. Petition No. 
PLNPCM2019-01110 and Petition No. PLNPCM2019-01111. View Attachment 
 Brian Fullmer, Council Constituent Liaison/Policy Analyst, 
introduced the attached proposal and specified this was the second public 
hearing on the item. 
 Jason Stevenson, Kirk Huffaker, Marian Florence, Brian Tebben, and Anne Charles spoke in opposition of the proposal. Comments included prior 
property downzone (to maintain accessible/affordable housing), why 
developers were being given power/authority to override zoning efforts 
of local residents (motive being financial gain), proposed changes being 
significant shift in scale (more people would be living in proposed 
development than currently lived on 800 East), analyzing cost benefits 
(two affordable housing units being replaced with 23 market rate condos), 
City goal should be to preserve/build missing middle affordable housing 
(start in this area), preserve existing community master plan/zoning map 
(require developer to submit new design adhering to existing structures 
and what residents wanted), 800 East neighbors opposed to zoning change 
(essentially “up-zoning”), deny application to avoid negative impact on 
neighborhood, downzoning occurring 6.5 years ago (approving proposal 
would be a violation of locally initiated planning effort), demolition 
sending tons of debris to landfill (not environmentally friendly),

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 11 
increased traffic, redeveloping Telegraph Exchange Lofts building under 
a different scenario, negating neighborhood revitalization efforts made 
over many decades, residents being denied due process, developer holding 
residents hostage (boasting about securing zoning change), project not 
meeting landscape buffer requirements, not approving project until 
carefully considered guidelines to protect neighborhoods were met, 
proposal being in direct opposition of Central Community Master Plan 
(preservation efforts), architectural diversity, excessive height limits 
not compatible with neighborhood, and City being expensive to live in 
(retain low-income housing). 
 Cindy Cromer spoke/submitted written comments about the proposal. 
Comments included current R-2 zoning being consistent with numerous 
efforts to stabilize neighborhood/adjacent business district, Telegraph 
Building not being most important building to preserve, two homes slated 
for demolition being well maintained and continuously occupied for 
decades, spending more time addressing what the City would be losing, 
approving proposal would bring more property tax revenue to the City 
(tax revenue being consistent basis for decision making in the Corradini 
Administration), and housing mitigation ordinance never succeeded in 
protecting housing units. 
 Mike Roskelley, Greg Joy, Brad Waltman, Micah Peters, and Ralph Nagasawa spoke in support of the proposal. Comments included proposal 
promoting community/inclusiveness, project being environmentally 
friendly (renewal energy features, etc.), preserving Telegraph building 
(asset to area, benefitting local merchants), City constantly 
growing/changing (developers should build for growth while preserving 
community history), owning businesses in area, balancing need for housing 
demand with preservation component, achieve balance between new housing 
demands and preservation issues, appropriate level for higher density 
housing, preserving neighborhood amenities, project providing additional 
setbacks/buffer, Planning Commission approval, blanket downzoning, 
numerous meetings with 9th and 9th stakeholders (businesses/residents), 
project developed over many years/reiterations, addressing issues of 
concern from businesses/residents, specializing in historic 
preservation/multi-use housing (45-years’ experience), and townhouses 
proposed to interact with sidewalk/street. 
 
Councilmember Mano moved and Councilmember Valdemoros seconded to close the public hearing and defer action to a future meeting, which 
motion carried, all members present voted aye (roll call). (P 20-22) 
 #15. 8:52:42 PM Ordinance: Shared Housing Zoning Text Amendments (formerly Single Room Occupancy or SROs) 
The Council will accept public comment and consider adopting an

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 12 
ordinance that would amend various sections of Title 21A of the Salt 
Lake City Code pertaining to Single Room Occupancy (SRO) uses (to be 
called Shared Housing uses). The proposed amendments would redefine what 
was previously Single Room Occupancy (SRO) housing to Shared Housing, 
and defines it as a residential building, or part of one, that contains 
smaller housing units consisting of one or more sleeping rooms and 
contains either a private kitchen or private bathroom, but not both. In 
the updated proposal, units could contain multiple sleeping rooms, rather 
than limiting the unit to one sleeping room. Other sections of Title 21A 
– Zoning may also be amended as part of this petition. Petition No. 
PLNPCM2018-00066. View Attachment 
 Russell Weeks, Council Senior Advisor, introduced the attached 
proposal and specified this was the first public hearing on the item. 
 Nigel Swaby and Anne Charles spoke in support. Comments included 
cost of housing in Salt Lake being too high, proposal providing housing 
options for low-income people, need to reduce parking requirements, 
expanding transit zone concept, and helping people struggling with 
addiction (proposal would help a lot of people). 
 George Chapman spoke in opposition. Comments included proposal not 
helping affordable housing (would encourage low-income apartments 
throughout the City), City needing to stop encouraging criminal behavior 
in low-cost motels, Palmer Court being second biggest draw for medical 
services in the City due to concentrating low-income in one facility 
(encourage/enable inappropriate substance abuse), mixed-income housing 
being the best option for lower income residents (encourage interaction 
between economic groups), adhering to City’s policy for mixed-income 
housing, City should require affordable housing with higher building 
heights, implementing inclusionary zoning, and potential to sell vacant 
City-owned property to developers who were willing/able to construct 
mixed-income/mixed-use buildings. 
 
Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Dugan seconded to close the public hearing and note a second public hearing was scheduled for November 10, 2020, which motion carried, all members present voted 
aye (roll call). (P 19-5) 
 #16. 9:01:12 PM Ordinance: Budget Amendment No. 3 for Fiscal Year 2020-21 
The Council will accept public comment and consider adopting an 
ordinance that would amend the final budget of Salt Lake City, including 
the employment staffing document, for Fiscal Year 2020-21. Budget 
amendments happen several times each year to reflect adjustments to the 
City’s budgets, including proposed project additions and modifications.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 13 
The proposed amendment includes funding for Airport Projects, Racial 
Equity in Policing Commission operating costs and windstorm expenses, 
among other items. View Attachment 
 
Councilmember Wharton said due to noticing issues, the hearing was 
being delayed and would be rescheduled. (B 20-10) 
 C. POTENTIAL ACTION ITEMS 
 
 #1. 9:01:27 PM Ordinance*: Zoning Text Amendment to Increase Building Height Limits in a Portion of the G-MU Zone 
The Council will consider adopting an ordinance that would increase 
the building heights within a portion of the G-MU (Gateway Mixed Use) 
zoning district from a current maximum of 120 feet up to 190 feet across 
portions of two separate blocks located between 500 West and the railroad 
tracks (approximately 625 West) and 200 South and 400 South. The 
applicant is requesting the change for a specific development project. 
Other sections of Title 21A – Zoning may also be amended as part of this 
petition. Petition No. PLNPCM2019-00639. *The Planning Commission 
forwarded a negative recommendation, therefore an ordinance was not 
drafted with the original transmittal but has since been added for the 
Council's formal consideration. View Attachment 
 
Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Dugan seconded to defer action to a future date, which motion carried, all members present 
voted aye (roll call). (P 20-17) 
 D. COMMENTS 
 #1. 9:03:27 PM Comments to the City Council. Note: Councilmember 
Wharton reiterated standards/rules of decorum for public comment. 
 Eliza McKinney spoke about stopping camp closures (ineffective use 
of resources), making decisions with unsheltered people not about them, 
outreach efforts requiring many months of consistent/compassionate 
relationship building, growing numbers of unsheltered 
individuals/chronic homelessness, increasing housing costs, and creating 
a prioritized plan to address harm reduction. 
 Kriss Martenson spoke about being a voice for the unborn (protecting 
children/human life), laws against murder, victims of rape/incest, roe-
vs-wade being fictional, accountability, and ending abortion. 
 Emily Alworth spoke in support of funding being proposed in Budget 
Amendment No. 3 for Racial Equity and Policing issues.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 14 
Katie Pappas and Lee Stanhope spoke about issues involving the 
Inland Port Authority Board/development, supporting the City’s Climate 
Positive 2040 Report (Sustainability Department), addressing climate 
control/protecting residents health, negative impacts of Inland Port 
development, requests for impact study being ignored by the Inland Port 
Board (no dialog available to taxpayers/stakeholders), need to 
mitigate/eliminate impacts, having a thorough study/health impact 
assessment performed by independent experts not representing port 
interests (utilize University of Utah), requiring study be 
completed/available before any development was allowed to occur, 
increasing impacts on air, water, light, and noise pollution, need to 
release Utah Inland Port Authority (UIPA) business plan (numerous 
suggestions for developing a green port), business plan not including 
any rules/regulations to enforce suggestions, developers not wanting to 
follow business plan if additional investment required, releasing 
Climate and Clean Air Quality Compact signed by numerous local leaders, 
and Council needing to urge UIPA Board to petition Board representatives 
to fund a Health Impact Assessment (HIA). Patric Rashband talked about enforcing laws regarding camping in 
City limits (continuing use of abatement orders), camps not being allowed 
to thrive in City (havens for unsanitary conditions, drug/alcohol abuse, 
lewd acts, property crimes, etc.), people in camps needing help 
(providing housing/services), unsavory types taking advantage of 
homeless/camps to commit crimes, and citizens deserving to be safe in 
the City/walking streets. 
 Pamela Starley talked about how zoning impacted neighborhood 
housing projects and asked if the Council was willing to modify master 
plans (impacting zoning/development). Councilmember Wharton reiterated 
the comment period was for citizens to express their thoughts/concerns 
and was not a back-and-forth with the Council. He asked Staff to work 
with Ms. Starley to address her questions/concerns. Anne Charles thanked the Mayor for pushing COVID-19 precautions. 
She talked about the Community Commitment Program (162 contacts made 
with only 80 being offered services - barriers preventing help), 
discontinuing camp abatement (people not having anywhere to go), and 
more people needing services with ongoing pandemic and winter coming. 
 George Chapman spoke about the Mayor’s attention/transparency on 
police staffing, residents/businesses wanting more cops visible in the 
City (specifically walking patrols to discourage criminal activity), 
Police Department vacancies (losing 3-4 officers per month), more funding 
needed in next budget amendment (officers, mobile cop-cams, speed 
feedback signs, etc.), and police wanting to engage with community, not 
harass people.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 15 
 Hildalgo De La Flor (comments inaudible) 
 Kelly Martenson (listening only) 
 
 #2. Questions to the Mayor from the City Council. 
 
There were no questions. 
 E. NEW BUSINESS 
 
 NONE 
 F. UNFINISHED BUSINESS 
 
 #1. 9:30:25 PM Resolution: Authorizing Pick Up of Public Safety and Firefighter Employee Retirement Contributions 
The Council will consider adopting a resolution that would authorize 
the City to “pick up” or cover qualifying Tier II public safety and 
firefighter employee retirement contributions. The Fiscal Year 2020-21 
annual budget split the cost between the City and employees. The City 
would fully cover the cost increase under the proposal. View Attachment 
 
Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Dugan seconded to adopt Resolution 35 of 2020, authorizing the City to “pick up” contributions for employees who are qualifying members of the Public Safety and Firefighter Tier II retirement system, which motion carried, 
all members present voted aye (roll call). (R 20-15) #2. 9:31:38 PM Resolution: Update to the City’s 2020-24 Consolidated Plan Guiding Use of U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Securities (CARES) Act Fund 
The Council will consider adopting a resolution that would update 
the City’s 2020-24 Consolidated Plan as required by the United States 
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The City expects to 
receive approx. $7.1 million in HUD CARES Act funding and must amend the 
Consolidated Plan and associated 2020-21 Annual Action Plan to utilize 
those funds. The Consolidated Plan details the City’s goals and 
objectives to build healthy and sustainable communities through four 
federal grants: Community Development Block Grants (CDBG), Emergency 
Solutions Grants (ESG), Home Investment Partnerships, and Housing 
Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA). View Attachment 
 
Councilmember Rogers moved and Councilmember Fowler seconded to adopt Resolution 36 of 2020, which motion carried, all members present 
voted aye (roll call).

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 16 
(T 20-1) 
 G. CONSENT 9:32:33 PM 
 
Councilmember Rogers moved and Councilmember Fowler seconded to approve the Consent Agenda (including Grant Application Items B1-B6 which were added to the Consent Agenda following the earlier public hearings). 
 
 Mr. Fullmer said during the Work Session, the Council discussed 
holding only one public hearing on Item 1 (Warm Springs road vacation). 
He said he thought the motion could be amended to reflect that based on 
the Council’s desire. 
 
 Councilmember Rogers moved and Councilmember Flower seconded to amend the motion to include holding only one hearing on Item 1 (specific date not identified), which motion carried, all members present voted 
aye (roll call). 
 
 #1. Ordinance: Street Vacation Near 800 N and Warm Springs Road 
The Council will set the dates of Tuesday, December 1, 2020 and 
Tuesday, December 8, 2020 at 7 p.m. to accept public comment and consider 
adopting a ordinance that would close a portion of 800 North Street 
adjacent to I-15 and Warm Springs Road. The applicant owns the property 
to the north and proposes that the vacated area will be split between 
the owners to the north and south. The closure will not impact traffic 
or access. The subject right-of-way is no longer used as a roadway and 
is generally unoccupied. Petition No. PLNPCM2019-00824. View Attachment (P 20-24) 
 #2. Grant Holding Account Items (Batch No.2) associated with Budget Amendment No. 3 for Fiscal Year 2020-21 
The Council will consider approving Grant Holding Account Items 
(Batch No. 2) for Fiscal Year 2020-21 Associated with Budget Amendment 
No. 3. View Attachment (B 20-3) 
 #3. Board Appointment: Historic Landmark Commission – John Ewanowski 
The Council will consider approving the appointment of John 
Ewanowski to the Historic Landmark Commission for a term ending October 
20, 2024. View Attachment (I 20-31) 
 #4. Board Appointment: Historic Landmark Commission – Babs DeLay 
The Council will consider approving the appointment of Babs DeLay 
to the Historic Landmark Commission for a term ending October 20, 2024. View Attachment

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 17 
(I 20-31) 
 #5. Board Appointment: Historic Landmark Commission – Aiden Lillie 
The Council will consider approving the appointment of Aiden Lillie 
to the Historic Landmark Commission for a term ending October 20, 2024. View Attachment (I 20-31) 
 #6. Board Appointment: Business Advisory Board – Kristen Lavelett 
The Council will consider approving the appointment of Kristen 
Lavelett to the Business Advisory Board for a term ending January 1, 
2021. Kristen has been inadvertently serving unofficially since January 
2017. The Administration would like to count this as time served towards 
her term limit and make this her final term. View Attachment (I 20-22) #7. Board Reappointment: Utah Performing Arts Center Agency (UPACA) Board – Jennifer Bruno 
The Council will consider approving the reappointment Jennifer 
Bruno to the UPACA Board for a term ending July 9, 2021. View Attachment (I 20-26) 
 #8. Board Reappointment: Utah Performing Arts Center Agency (UPACA) Board – Justin Belliveau 
The Council will consider approving the reappointment of Justin 
Belliveau to the UPACA Board for a term ending July 9, 2021. View Attachment (I 20-26) 
 #9. Ordinance: Budget Amendment No. 4 for Fiscal Year 2020-21 
The Council will set the dates of Tuesday, November 10, 2020 and 
Tuesday, November 17, 2020 at 7:00 p.m. to accept public comment and 
consider adopting an ordinance that would amend the final budget of Salt 
Lake City, including the employment staffing document, for Fiscal Year 
2020-21. Budget amendments happen several times each year to reflect 
adjustments to the City’s budgets, including proposed project additions 
and modifications, among other items. View Attachment (B 20-11) 
 #10. Ordinance: Budget Amendment No. 5 for Fiscal Year 2020-21 
The Council will set the dates of Tuesday, November 10, 2020 and 
Tuesday, November 17, 2020 at 7:00 p.m. to accept public comment and 
consider adopting an ordinance that would amend the final budget of Salt 
Lake City, including the employment staffing document, for Fiscal Year 
2020-21. Budget amendments happen several times each year to reflect 
adjustments to the City’s budgets, including proposed project additions

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2020 
 
 20 - 18 
and modifications, among other items. (B 20-12) 
 
The meeting adjourned at 9:34 p.m. 
 
 
______________________________ 
Council Chair 
 
 
______________________________ 
City Recorder 
 
 
This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript as 
additional discussion may have been held; please refer to the audio or 
video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203(2)(b). 
 
This document along with the digital recording constitute the 
official minutes of the Salt Lake City Formal Session held October 20, 
2020. 
 
sc 
 
Chris Wharton (Dec 4, 2020 11:00 MST)
Cindy Trishman (Dec 4, 2020 11:10 MST)

October 20, 2020 Formal Meeting Minutes -
Approved 12/1/20
Final Audit Report 2020-12-04
Created:2020-12-03
By:DeeDee Robinson (deedee.robinson@slcgov.com)
Status:Signed
Transaction ID:CBJCHBCAABAAk5NjeB6FsATEhBctUe0uO1njoCRUJ0-8
"October 20, 2020 Formal Meeting Minutes - Approved 12/1/20" 
History
Document created by DeeDee Robinson (deedee.robinson@slcgov.com)
2020-12-03 - 9:58:06 PM GMT- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document emailed to Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com) for signature
2020-12-03 - 9:59:14 PM GMT
Email viewed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
2020-12-04 - 6:00:36 PM GMT- IP address: 73.20.17.210
Document e-signed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2020-12-04 - 6:00:47 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 73.20.17.210
Document emailed to Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com) for signature
2020-12-04 - 6:00:48 PM GMT
Document e-signed by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2020-12-04 - 6:10:20 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Agreement completed.
2020-12-04 - 6:10:20 PM GMT
