ORDINANCE NO. 22-14
Ordinance No. 22-14 became effective by operation of law
without the Mayor's approval or disapproval.
Dated this 16"° day of August 2022
Tangee Sloan, CMC
City Recorder

THE CITY OF WEST JORDAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 22-14
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE 2009 WEST JORDAN CITY CODE
(THE SOUTHWEST QUADRANT MIXED USE [SWQ-ML] ZONE,
ENACTING SECTIONS 13-5N-] THROUGH 13-5N-9 INCLUSIVE, AND AMENDING
SECTIONS 13-5-1, 13-7B-2, AND 15-2-3)

WHEREAS, the City of West Jordan (“City”) adopted West Jordan City Code (“City Code”) in 2009;
and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City (“City Council") desires to enact certain sections of the City
Code, regarding and related to the Southwest Quadrant Mixed Use (SWD-MU) Zone (“proposed City Code
amendments"); and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission of the City (“Planning Commission") held a public hearing and
provided a recommendation on Juae 7, 2022, regarding the proposed City Code amendments, since all the
proposed City Code amendments are land use regulations, including City Code Sections 13-5N-1 through 13-3N-
¥ inclusive, 13-5-1, 13-7B-2, and 1$-3-3; and

WHEREAS, the City Council held a public hearing on July 27, 2022 regarding the proposed City Code
amendments; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds it to be in the best interest of the public health, safety, and welfare of
the residents of the City to adopt the following proposed City Code amendments.

NOW THEREFORE, BE [T ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WEST
JORDAN, UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Enactment and Amendment of Code Provisions, City Code Sections 13-5N-1 through 13-5N-
9 inclusive are enacted, and Sections 13-5-1, 13-7B-2, and 15-2-3 are amended, to read as shown on Attachment
| below.

Section 2, Severability, If any provision of this Ordinance is declared to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remainder shall not be affected thereby.

Section 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon posting or
publication as provided by law and wpan (i) the Mayor signing the Ordinance, (ii) the City Council duly overriding
the veto of the Mayor as provided by law, or (iii) the Mayor failing to sign or veto the Ordinance within fifteen
(15) days after the City Council presents the Ordinance to the Mayor.

PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WEST JORDAN, UTAH, THIS 27" DAY OF
JULY 2022,

CITY OF WEST JORDAN
By: haguleen Wiieeloed
Kayleen Whitelock
ATTEST: Council Chair
ey auld)
Cindy M. Quick, MMC
Couneil Office Clerk
(continued on the following page)

Voting by the City Council "VES" "NO"
Council Chair Kayleen Whitelock & oO
Council Vice-Chair Kelvin Green ea Bo
Council Member Pamela Bloom & O
Council Member Zach Jacob & O
Council Member Christopher MeConnehey oO &
Council Member David Pack & oO
Council Member Melissa Worthen ] Oo
PRESENTED TO THE MAYOR BY THE CITY COUNCIL ON AUGUST 1, 2022.
Mayor's Action: Approve ____ Veto
Bys ee _
Mayor Dirk Burton Date
ATTEST:
Tangee Sloan
City Recorder
STATEMENT OF APPROVAL OF PASSAGE (check one)
The Mayor approved and signed Ordinance No. 22-14.
The Mayor vetoed Ordinance No. 22-14 on and the
City Council timely overrode the veto of the Mayor by a vote of to P
ie Ordinance No, 22-14 became effective by operation of law without the
Mayor's approval or disapproval.
Tangee eh, a
City Recorder

CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

], Tangee Sloan, certify that | am the City Recorder of the City of West Jordan, Utah, and that a short

summary of the foregoing ordinance was published on the Utah Public Notice Website on the lug day of
, 2022. The fully executed copy of the ordinance is retained in the Office of the City
Saceertenad to Utah Code Annotated, 10-3-711,
ee
Tangee Sloan
City Recorder
(Attachment on the following pages)

Attachment 1
[Attachment to ORDINANCE NO. 22-14
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE 2009 WEST JORDAN CITY CODE
(THE SOUTHWEST QUADRANT MIXED USE [SWQ-MU] ZONE,
ENACTING SECTIONS 13-5N-1 THROUGH 13-5N-9 INCLUSIVE, AND AMENDING
SECTIONS 13-5-1, 13-7B-2, AND 15-2-3)]
Legislative Version:
ARTICLE K. SOUTHWEST QUADRANT MIXED USE (SWO-MU) ZONE

13-5N-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:

13-5N-2: ESTABLISHMENT:

13-5N-3: MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (MDA):

13-5N-6; COMMERCIAL/OFFICE MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

N-7: He Ni U ; § DEV N
STANDARDS:
13-5N-8: LOT AND BULK STANDARDS:
13-5N-9: DESIGN STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL/OFFICE MIXED USE AND HI-TECH
MANUFACTURING/EMPLOYMENT ZONING DISTRICTS:

13-5N-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:

The purpose of the SWO-MU Zone is to create a purposefully planned development area that promotes hi-tech

manufacturing, employment centers, flexible commercial, office, and mixed density residential uses in master

for high technology industrial and secondary commercial, office and mixed density buffer residential uses.
itis the intent of this zone is to:

A.
employment, commercial, office and bufler mixed density residential uses, configured to incorporate
and location benefits of the area,

B. Encourage flexibility in the d opment ofa complements i of hi-tech manufacturing (employment),
commercial/office, and mixed density residential uses ina single district,

& acilitate the use of innovative approaches to development, including sustainable development practices
BD. Promo ses and development that buffer existing residential areas und tha support healthy comple
neighborhoods defined as places where people have sa and convenient access to the goods and se &
aded for daily life, and that promote active lifestyles, The zone encourages quality and innovative design
ami Aci ES ion if Pree places dhe Preal Sireee
E. Encourage a mix of uses, in close proximity to each other, to promote efficient use and, prow ide fo
fF. Be planned a5 one development that will compliment a variety of uses.
13:8N.2: ESTABLISHMENT:
A, ANY Bea Pro peosOd foer in WO voning designation shall be stablished on the fut anu ap
the city
B. Development within the zone shall be governed by a common, recorded, master development agreement
“MDA"), that runs with the land fo fm determined by the City Council,
CC. The maximum residential d ity in the SWO-MU zone shall be det mined inthe master development
plan MDP and MDA in gross dwelling units per acre within each project governed by a common MDA
BD. The minimum and the maximum, non-tax exempt, non-residential density allocation shall be designated i
the MDA,
E. Prior to receiving the SWO-MU zoning designation on the zoning map, the petitioner and the proper
owner(s) mi gotiate a mutually acceptable MDP and MDA with the city, and all parties must execute
F. ALa minimum, a petition for SWO-MU zoning designation shall:
& am economic development analysis detailing how the proposed development will benefit the
b. amap of integrated uses to ensure that the land within the zone will be developed as an
integrated development;
& slasing pan TOF Tae project Ls i sirating AN i¢ipaned [a required ae rit ies, ahi8)
WM PPOVETEMTS POOP See Te pubrlis dedication LOSE i Ll an eS asih igh HOW PPOpe re
within ¢ach phase of the project area will be apportioned into logical development seements and
how each portion of the development dedicates any required public open space, and amenitie
DeOptinate: toy thee residen ia densi AD PPOWOU HOP TS DULL 0 he Weve nO pment,
d. a development phasing plan showing that each phase can operate independently, without relying
¢. a commitment and phasing plan to develop a minimum amount of non-tax exempi, non-
residential development;
fi oa ing pl ti a ical s' :

&. gonceptual design exhibits and requirements for public improvements i+ uler, Sewer, storm
h.
i. am environmental mitigation plan:
i
kk.
m. design guidelines for all commercial, office and industrial uses illustrating a unifying
mn  amap illustrating where any required buffer residential will be located,
O. Leonne ion ho ore ation pian ih HOMME Ae rai SU exIStinp nO PROS rill
p.
: that rt | il:
d. ensures a safe community;
&. promotes n¢izhborhood compatibility;
fo result ina net positive contribution of industrial, commercial and residential development_and
& pro ides a variet of iH designed ne Sin PS TT CTT LIONS Cen app icab :
h. ensure the highest value of open space for any given sine;
i. efficiently and cost effective xtend and provide public infrastructune;
j.— Mitigates the potential for adverse impacts of non-residential uses o idential uses and
residential neighborhoods within the city: and
kK. encourage mixed use, walkable, and sustainable development that incomponites innovative
design ri igates Any Prot ntia negati im Pets FO Ste Pel CU 2G Meco I un li
provide safe and effective access and connectivily.
: oncurrent Petition for MDA and “one Change: A petition fora zone change to the Q-MLI zon
hall include project details in sufficien ity from which the city attomey’s office may draft, and the parti
i Master Development Agreement Petition Process: An MDA petition must identify and describe, in detai

identity, experience, and financial capacity of the master developer obligated to complete the proposed
proposed overall objective and intent of the proposed development;
where proposed the requested net residential density within each project area and the range and timing
of the product category mix, by peneral prod zategory {single family, townhome, apartment
community, retail, office. industrial, open space, ete):
a4 TATUNG gre Te eT, Wr ie minim Til OOMMMIUTENL WO CONSIMUCL NON-tax-exempl. ne Lresice ial
6. viability of, and plan for, major infrastructure systems: and
d. transportation corridors: and
Ce SUL OSES if ne i deiermine: hat i Ni require the s1 vices Oe Or Ore oe sacl LTH 4 t
a) Fes ig Wind process the peti ion aa peti ion aig deposi AM FTE eee rmin ed by staf iin bh Le ity” Sut=
of-pockel account to cover the city’s initial estimate of its outside consultant costs in reviewing and processing
out-of-pocket account to reimburse its outside consultant expenses. The petitioner may also be required to
refresh its © pocket account if initial deposits ane insufficient to facilitate the full extent of the required
hind-pary pewi Any unused portion of the petitioner's out-of-pocket deposits will be refunded upon final
D. Graft MBA. The city attormey's office shall draft an MIA that will run with the land and thar
memorializes the parties’ mutual commitments to one anoth The city council shall review the draft MDA
and the petitioner's request fora map amendment to rezone the propery to C-M OnCUITEN
During its consideration of the proposed petition, the planning commission will recommend to the City
“ouncil a limit.on single family detached residential density and other types of residential density, if praposed
he timing and phasing of the minimum required non-residential densin maximum non-residential densin
and a detail of the required enhancements for the projec
E City Council Review. The city council shall consider the planning commission's recommendation,
7 inv Council Adoption. The city council, in its legislative discretion, may adopt by ordinance an
amendment to the zoning map, designating propeny as SWO-MU. with zoning conditioned on the owner's
i ad ati t wed MDVA. 21-19

GENERAL NOTE: Any permitted or conditional alcoholic beverage uses allowed in these zones are listed in
the wse table in section 17- 10-4, with any applicable definitions, starting with the words “alcoholic beverage,”
A: Uses allowed in southwest quadrant mixed use zone are listed i able below. Those uses identified a
Planning Commission pursuant to the standards and procedures for conditional uses set forth in chapter

Uses identified as “administrative conditional uses” (AC) shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator
quadrant mixed use zone,

amuartinaea
Moorman ass eo suulutuelure umes tens,
tL
[Basieindutcinonbazaniousorofismsive
Busines. coviomemeenalandsuooties,
a |
face
[Daan CC

pete CU
a |
ee |
LLL_i fF |
[a |
<< =&°;»&=&=;*$}|©|——CChm
——w
ee |
i (|
—i #8#8§=—CCOUrrUmLULTLTLUE
ana e

———————<— =— eesti
——
— CU
— Esl CCS
—- |
— CC
— (iz
—_ i CU
_——
|

Neticedenimemicimied =i
[Miolesleondverchouinascmmy
[wholesalc.siomecanddistibwion-Lishormedium = [BO
‘Mi ecciiGea obht *
: EN ID :

A.
and reflected inthe MDA. The intent of mixed density residential housing in th O-ML zone is to
act as a butler irom mare intense industrial uses, Commercial and office uses may be integrated wi
residential uses,

B.
determined in the MDA and DP. Residential density shall be affixed to an area within th Wit=M

‘ithe 14 ved MDP and |
C. The intent is to create a vibrant mix of appropriate residential uses, using proper planning principles to
existing or planned commercial, office or industrial use, mixed density residential may be used asa
transitional buffer from existing very low-density housing to the commercial, office or industrial uses.
|. Medium Density Housing; up to 7.5 units per acre sed in areas as standalone single family or as a
buifer adjacent to existing or planned residential that is lower in den han 5 units per.acre,

2. High Density Housing: up to 24 units per acre to be used in areas on the opposite side of an arterial o
commercial, office and industrial uses.

3. Mery High Density Housing: up io 40 units per acre used on coniers of collector or arterial streets and

D. The following requirements shall apply to developm of any mixed density residential housing;

|. Residential Exterior Materials and Design. The exteriors of dwellings shall comply with the exterior
material and design requirements of the approved design guidelines of th i
2. Amenities shall be installed with all residential uses as approved with the MDP.
3. Anamenities phasing plan shall beapproved as part ofthe MDP
4. A trail system approved in the MDP shall be designed and installed with all residential uses and sha
connect to existing and proposed city and regional trail systems, The minimum width of the trail she
The intensity of amenities will be based on the density of the approved residential use. All amenitic
or residential will be approved with the MDP and MDA. Amenities shall be provided as defined i
bseclions a. through ¢. of this section, More than one amenity muy be provided from a single catepe
and there is no requirement to pro ide amenities from any given category.
Residential Unit Count
Oto 100 - iti il
101 to 300 - 4 total amenities
$0) to 700 - § total amenities
701 to L000 - 10 total amenities
L001 to 1800 -- £2 total amenities
Above 150] - 2 additional amenities for each additional 400 units
a. Active Recreational Facilities: These facilities may include sports courts, tennis cours, Communit
Dirks, Swimm ing pools, sports fields, playgrounds, skate parks, pavilions, comm iL aren S,
plazas. public squares, dop parks, and other items deemed similar in nature and intensity as
proposed by the developer and approved in the MDA
b. Common Buildings or Facilities; Developments which contain buildings or facilities that are
constructed for use by the residents for meetings. indoor recreation. receptions, classes, or other
items deemed similar in nature and intensity as proposed by the ¢ aper and approved in th
: Street Beautification: Alone a ferial_ and collector streets (as determined by th ity) in_the
development nine-foot (9°) wide park strips with minimum two-inch (2") caliper trees planted
wenty= feet (25") on center along with 5-foot sidewalks. Trees speci all be approved
by Lie OE POPES Ger Ane MM DE ChUSEErE Where Meh Oe Cee items deemed similar in mature
d. Pedestrian and Bis nhancements Along All Collector Streets; Pedestrian and bicycle amenities
nol eypic; required as par the street improvements may include, but are no limited to, trails,
raised planters, bulb-outs or curb extensions, pedestrian plazas with seating areas and tables, bik

anes! facilities, or other items d ed similar in nature and intensity as proposed b ed ope
Theme Lighting or Other Theme Design: A theme may be incorporated into the development such a:
decorative streetlights/lamp posts, lighting along walkways or trails, entrance way lighting, and
mL ire ut ilding ‘igh ing in ddition OO TAS NOM a! SUCH igh ing aS! irem Pts OF ON design
proposed by the g Oe and approved by shail
6. andscaping: All mixed density residential shall comply with provisions goveming landscaping in
haple nis tithe and with the MDA which shall be reflected in the final site plan approval,
R. Parking and Loading: All mixed density residential w: hall comp ith provisions governing off-
a.
9, i-family developmes ithin the SWO-MU zone shall not be swhject to section 13-8-2
H EVELOPMENT ST. i
A. The Commercial Mixed-Use (COMU) designation will accommodate a variety of purposes including hich
density residential, employme ners, retail commercial and professional offices, The mixed-use
oncept would integrate a mix of compatible yses on a single site that include sales, services and activitie
hich residents may need on adaily basis. With pedestrian access, these sites will enable residents to walk
or bike for many local trips, instead of driving for convenience trips
B, Commercial Mixed-Use (CO shall be affixed to an anca within th O-MU zone through
preliminary site plan or preliminary subdivision approval, follow all provisions o [ and Tithe |
and based on the approved MDP and MDA
C. COMU developments will include public facilities where feasible, such as a post office, library, fir
D. COMU developments may also include neighborhood work centers that provide space for pri olfices
that use telecommunications i h thai telecommuters and other residents in the neighborhood
[he area for commercial/otfice mixed uses in WO-MUL zone shall be determined with the Maste
Developin Plan approval: ommercial / off mixed uses shall be located to provide a transition
DRT LITE mixed det it nes ce ntia 17a! ing areas ewe Oped in Bit ONO ith thi FONE and es. Ih
LEBEL, ing addi jong Peg ire eS ae app. OU CPOE nt i OTe ial off mined Ltt in Hi
I. Landscaping: All commercial office mixed uses shall comprise a minimum of 15% of the site and
ith the adopted landscaping and irrigation pian guiding principles which shall be reflected inthe
2. Parking and Loading: All commercial office mixed uses shall comply with the provisions governing
off sireet parking in chapter 12 of this title, The provisions of section 13-14-3 only congeming loading

of [ freig. ht an d vehicles and Screening of street facing dock doors shall not app ly in the SWO-ML zone
a m ilding TORE Mee een i Gb Cig pee ha | De Screened me integrated architect if eal hes.
gales.
3. Signs: All signage in the SWOQ-MU zone shall comply with the adopted design guidelines
13-5N-7: HI-TECH MANUFACTURING/EMPLOVYMENT BUSINESS PARKS DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS
he area for Hi-tech manufacturing/employment (HIME) uses i SWO-MU zone shall be determined with
the Master Development Plan approvals. The areas desivnated for the Hi-tech manufacturing are typically suitable
electronics, The following additional requirements shall apply to development of hi-tech

AL itech manufact ering nM phoviMen HIME) uses shall be a Kee Lo 2 Aree within SWO-ML zone
Tithe 14, and based on the approved MDP and MDA,

B. Landscaping: All hi-tech manufaciuring/employment uses shall comprise a minimum of 10% of the site
with the adopted landscaping and irrigation plan guiding principles which shall be reflected in th nal
site plan approval,

c.

overning off street parking in chapter of this title, nrovisions of section 13-14 only concemin

D.

A.
Min Min Fron Adin. Conner ude Ain letenor sic | Ain Rear Yard | files. Max Building
Lot Yard yard Height Building Caan on
‘Width ‘Coverage meng ke

HIME | Ace TH Mo requerinest, Bone fenne fie Bo Lint Rane except
wfherh bel nrg eke fequd erent, as Fequired
Wediaeety to | dare use oF ary When adjooning by been
eeadereual ether WY adpoineg (ame Se oF ary he
oF manufscturing ollie use or other
20m commercial manulaciuneng,
oe
MWesande A" adpoing.
adjoining ss feaiderdial AY eet sale
eommenciad at adjoining a
alice use. Commercial or
Olfice use.
80 ora tide
adjoining a OF on a ude
remdential use adjoining a
lesadential use.
COMI! ay my a rogwarement a 43° unless. cra Maun
isficnt add jointing a Rreeier buildings:
OV adwcce: | Ht adjcimiga eommeretal or i adivinmaa | height a
toresidental | nesdentiol use manudectecing resend all wae. appre nd hela,
an me. by planning buildings:
Commission P|
SF adicining a by CUP oory
neadendal ise bunkdings:
1
B. The following lot and bulk standards shall apply to.all residential uses in the SWO-ML zone:
ig in SWO-MU Z .
a s$ different sethacks are approved in the Master Development Plan, garages facing directly on a
public oF private street, whether in the frontor side yard, shall be set back behind the front facade of the living
bp Unless different sethacks are approved in the Master Development Plan, side or rear loaded garages in
WO-MU Zone shall be set back at least twenty two feet (22') from the property line
2, Residential Building Setbacks: Unless different setbacks are approved with the Master De opment Plan
two feet (22°) from front and rear property lines: side yard setback for interior side lots shall be at least a total o
hinteen fee 4 but no Jess than get (5°) on each side: corner lot setbacks shall be a minimum of fifteen
ect (15") where no garage will be accessed from cormerand twenty two feet (22') on lots where a garage will be
_ Abutting Residential Property: Setbacks shall be maintained along peripheral property lines of planned
developments that arc equal to setbacks required by the gone on abutting proper
4, Existing Public Streets: In instances where a proposed planned development will fronton one of mo
xisting public streets, the setback fngim the street shall be equal to that required by the most restrictive zoning o
property immediately adjacent or across the public strect from the proposed planned development
C. Maximum Height of Buildings and Structures:
a. Single-Family Residential Buildings: Twe sores or thirty five feet (35'), whichever is greates
0 ha ipte-Family Resid ial Buildings: Unless differ nt _heigh arc approved | the Master
Development Plan Three (3) stories or fo ve feet (45"), whichever is greater

13-5N-9: DESIGN STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL/OFFICE MIXED USE AND HI-TECH
MANUFACTURING/EMPLOYMENT ZONING DISTRICTS:
A.
2. Building placement guidelines:
3. Parking and circulation guidelines:
4. Screening and fencing guidelines:
5. Site lighting guidelines:
6,
§. Parking requirements for different use types; and
9. Archi idelines, with buildi il
B.
1. Qutdoor Storage: All materials shall be stored and/or warehoused within the principal building
Zs
ink and slatted fenci hibited
a
contrast. The intent for lighting is to provide needed illumination of the site, while at the same time
a.
b.
Standards,
C. Minimum architectural standards:
[. Unifying Desien Theme: Buildings and/or streetscapes shall reflect a unifying design theme reflected in
the MDP,
2. Buildings shall follow design standards of section 13-7B-6 and chapter 10 of the Title.
13-5-1: ZONING DISTRICTS:
In order to accomplish the purposes of this tile, the city is hereby divided into zoning districts (or zones) in
accordance with the adopted general plan of the city as follows:
Agricultural zones:
A= Agricultural zone

A-53 Agricultural zone

A-20 Agricultural zone

Residential zones:

R-L Single-family residential zones
R-1-5 (5,000 square feet)

R-1-6 (6,000 square feet)

R-1-8 (8,000 square feet)

R-1-9 (9,000 square feet)

R-1-10 (10,000 square feet)

R-[-12 (12,000 square feet)

R-l-14 (14,000 square feet)

R-2 Two-family residential zone

R-3 Multiple-family residential zone
R-3-6 (3 to 6 units per acre)

R-3-8 (8 or ess units per acre)

R-3-10 (10 of less units per acre)
R-3-12 (12 or less units per acre)
R-3-16 (16 or less units per acre)
R-3-20 (20 of less units per acre)
R-3-22 (22 or less units per acre)

R-R Rural residential zone

R-R-20 (20,000 square feet)

R-R-30 (30,000 square feet)

R-R-40 (40,000 square fect)

R-E Residential estate zone

R-E-20 (20,000 square feet)

R-E-30 (30,000 square feet)

R-E-40 (40,000 square feet)

R-M Mobile home residential zone
Planned development sones:

PRD Planned residential development zone
PC Planned community zone

PCH Planned community hillside zone
‘Office and research park zones:

P-O Professional office zone

BR-P Business and research pork zone
Commercial zones:

C-G General commercial zone

C-M Heavy commercial zone

SC-1 Neighborhood shopping center zone
SC-2 Community shopping center sone

SC-3 Regional shopping center zone

Manufacturing zones:

M-P Manufacturing Park Zone

M-1 Light Manufacturing Zone

M-2 Major Manufacturing Zone

P-F Public Facilities Zone

PRO Parks, Recreation and Open Space Zone

City Center xones:

CC-C City Center-Core Subdistrict

CC-R City Center-Residential Subdistrict

CcC-F City Center-Frame Subdistrict

WSPA West Side planning area zones:

VLSFR Very Low Density, Single-Family Residential Zone

LSFR Low Density, Single-Family Residential Zone

MFR Medium Density, Multi-Family Residential Zone

HFR. High Density, Multi-Family Residential Zone

MU Mixed Use Zone

Overlay zoning districts:

Airport Overlay Zone

Redwood Road Overlay Zone

Historie Districts, Sites and Buildings Overlay Zone

Hillside Development Overlay Zone

Floodplain Overlay Zone

Drinking Water Source Protection Overlay Zone

Transit Station Overlay District

Senior Housing Overlay District

Infill Development Overlay District

Residential Overlay District

Airport Special Purpose Zone

Interchange Overlay Zone (OZ)
(2001 Code § 89-3-101; amd, 2009 Code; Ord. 11-03, 2-9-2011; Ord. 11-35, 11-22-2011; Ord, 14-32, 10-22-
2014; Ond. 17-19, 4-5-2017; Gnd. 18-37, 1 1-7-2018; Ord. 21-19, 12-15-2021)
13-76-2: SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:

A. Exceptions to Preliminary and Final Site Plan Reviews: Preliminary and final site plan reviews are
required for all developments in all zones, except as provided below:

Ll. Residential Construction: Site plan review and the associated fees shall not be required for residential

dwellings in the residential or agricultural zones.

2. Accessory Buildings and Additions: Site plan review and the associated fees shall not be required for
accessory buildings or main building additions in residential or agricultural zones. Site plan review and the
associated fees shall not be required for up to two (2) accessory buildings or main building additions per lot in
other zones; provided, that the proposed construction meets the following criteria:

a. The floor area ofeach proposed accessory building or main building is mot larger than twenty five
percent (25%) of the floor area of the existing main building to a maximum of five thousand (5,000) square feet.

b. Each proposed accessory building or main building addition meets all zoning requirements.

¢. Each proposed building or main building addition is architecturally compatible with the existing main
building.

3. Mel and SWO-MU Site Plans: If a subdivision plat is required, a final plat, as required by the city
subdivision ordinance, must be completed before site plans in the M-I PEESOICIRED oor may be reviewed by
the city planner. If the city planner determines that the proposal is of significant size or complexity to warrant
review by the planning commission, the developer shall follow the procedures for site plan review by the
planning commission.

B. Application; Submittal Requirements: Any person or entity who seeks development shall submit an
application on the official form provided by the development services department. Submittal requirements shall
be as established administratively by the department and shall include, but not be limited to: 1) evidence of
ownership or the type of controlling interest in the property; 2) legal description of the property; 3) property
owner, 4) the present zoning classification; 5) the proposed use of the property; and 6) a sealed diagram of the
subject parcel and surrounding area, The applicant shall submit the application, together with the applicable fee,
to the development department, Applications shall not be reviewed without the written consent of the property
owner except as provided herein. The burden of proof for all applications shall be the responsibility of the
applicant. (2001 Code § 89-5-302; amd. 2009 Code; Ord, 19-50, 12-11-2019, Effective at 12 noon on January 6,
2020)

15-2-3: REVIEW PROCESS TYFE Il; PLANNING COMMISSION DECISIONS:
ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS (A TOG):

A. Preliminary Subdivision Plats: Major subdivisions, condominiums, and condominium conversions require
preliminary subdivision plat review by the planning commission. The planning commission shall act on
completed subdivision plat applications as provided in this title and other applicable titles (i.c., tithes 12, 13
and/or 14 of this code), If the planning commission finds that the proposed subdivision plat complies with the
applicable requirements of this code, its approval of the application may be with or without conditions, If the
planning commission finds that the proposed subdivision plat does not meet the requirements of this code, it
shall not approve the application.

B. Vacating Subdivision Plats: Review, public hearings and public notice of applications requesting vacation
of all or part of a subdivision plat shall be consistent with Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-608.

C, Conditional Use Permits: Any conditional use permit application | not expressly assigned for
administrative action by the zoning administrator in tithe 14 of this code must be approved by the planning
commission.

D. Preliminary Site Plans: Site plans, except for those in an M-1 ‘and SO zone when no changes to design
standards are requested, require preliminary review by the planning commission. The planning commission
shall act on completed preliminary site plan applications as provided in this title and other applicable titles (i..,
titles 12, 13 and/or 14 of this code). Ifthe planning commission finds that the proposed preliminary site plan
complies with the applicable requirements of this code, its approval of the application may be with or without

conditions, Ifthe planning commission finds that the proposed preliminary site plan does not meet the
requirements of this cede, it shall not approve the application,

E. Phase Development Plans: Phase development plans shal! be approved by the planning commission,
Residential developments secking to establish approval of density in a planned zoning district shall submit a
phase development plan for each phase, to be approved by the planning commission.

F. Transportation Studies and Other Studies: Official city studies which are not master plans and which are
not a part of or an element to the general plan require planning commission approval.

G. Referral to Staff: Subject to the limitation in subsection GU of this section, the planning commission may
refer any matter over which it has jurisdiction to the zoning administrator for review and approval. Such action
shall be taken cither by action of the planning commission or pursuant to duly adapted policies or procedures of
the planning commission, The authority for such referrals may be revoked at any time by the planning
commission,

RECOMMENDATIONS TO CITY COUNCIL (H):
H. Limitation: Subsection FG of this section shall not apply to any action the planning commission is
required by law to take by following other procedures or protocols, including, but not limited to:
1. General plan adoption and amendments;
2. Land use ordinance adoption and amendments;
3. #oning map adoption and code amendments;
4, Adoption or amendments of any official maps;
3. Ordinances regarding delegations of power to an appropriate appeal authority; and
6. Master development plans. (2009 Code; amd. Ord, 10-04), 2-24-2010; Ord, 13-17, 4-24-2019; § 15-2-4
Ord. 19-52, 12-11-2019, Effective at 12 noon on January 6, 2020)
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 15-2-2 A28 of this chapter.
