                        Cottonwood Heights city
Who is filling out this report?
Logan Loftis
Analyst
logan@lrbfinance.com
801-462-6557

Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element:


Link to adoption resolution or ordinance:
https://www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov/home/showpublisheddocument/10101/6388749417815
50533


Link to general plan, moderate income housing element:
See 7.4 Affordability Analysis via
https://www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov/home/showpublisheddocument/294

You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting.
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting AND our implementation plan or strategies were updated or
amended during the reporting period between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.




                                                                                        159
   We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting AND our implementation
    plan or strategies were updated or amended during the
  reporting period between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.

2-5 YEAR REPORTING WITH NEW STRATEGIES OR AMENDMENTS The following section
is for communities who have amended their strategies or plans while in years 2-5 of reporting.
You will first provide the new strategies you have adopted or changed. Afterward, you will report
on the previous progress made with your old strategies. Note that if you amend or adopt new
strategies during the reporting period (Aug 1, 2024–July 31, 2025), you must report on the
progress of the original strategies (e.g., you previously pursued strategy A, but switched to
strategy B on January 1. You would provide the new information about your plan to pursue
strategy A, then report on the progress made on strategy B from August to January 1).


STRATEGY SELECTION & PLANNING
Select which strategy from Utah Code that you included in your moderate-income housing
element. (For the list of strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code
Section 10-9a-403 for municipalities, and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
L

For that strategy, list each benchmark and the planned implementation timeline(s). A
benchmark is a key task(s) to advance this strategy and should be specific and measurable.
Timelines should be time bound (e.g., annually, quarterly; Q1, Q2; 2025, 2026, 2027; specific
dates; etc.)

L
Cottonwood Heights City has the ability to charge impact fees for stormwater and roads as part
of new development projects. The City will review its impact fees associated with development
and identify ways in which these fees can be reduced and/or waived to help encourage more
moderate income housing within the city. The city will take this same approach with additional
types of impact fees that it may consider from time to time (fire, park, public safety, etc.).The
following include the each benchmark and timeline for this strategy: •Review impact fees with
development community to identify criteria in which fees can be reduced/waived to promote
more incentives for moderate income housing (Spring 2026).•Establish attainable goals and
objectives based on impact fee review that can be integrated into the City’s 2026 Moderate
Income Housing Report (Fall 2026).




                                                                                                160
ZONING MAP
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map.
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances.
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial
Resource Center.


Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov.
Uploaded

When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur?
Jan. 7 2025


ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. Do not include any parcels or
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it
in this data. If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your
report.


Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a
building permit.
• As of May 2025, the city has approximately 469 entitled units that have not yet pulled building
permits. This includes: •400 units in the Wasatch Rock Planned Development Zone (WRPDZ),
which has received development entitlement but is still in the early of site construction and
permitting. • 69 units associated with smaller developments or previously approved
subdivisions

Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that
have NOT pulled a building permit.
The city does not have an applicable overlay zone that allows housing in addition to the
underlying zoning designation. The only two overlay zones in the city are the Gateway Overlay,
which imposes commercial design standards, and the sensitive lands overlay, which imposes
geologic and geotechnical engineering requirements for development in sensitive areas .




                                                                                                161
Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions,
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building
permit.
Approximately 151 parcels exist matching this requirement (please note, these numbers
preclude parcels which are currently zoned low-density residential that could, in the future, apply
for a zone change to allow more intense use - that number is difficult to estimate,however.)
Utilizing current zoning designations, these lots could accommodate approximately 200 - 225
units if developed in their current condition, and if found to be buildable.

From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units,
parcels, or lots.
Approximately 150 residential units likely meet this requirement (again, however, this is
contingent on engineering studies and compliance with all other local development ordinances -
many undeveloped and unentitled lots in Cottonwood Heights contain natural hazards )

Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc.
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to
support the data reported above.
As reported on previously, the barriers range, depending on where the project is located. In the
case of one large, entitled development project, the entitled project site is large (20 acres) and
has required very extensive geotechnical engineering work to ensure all natural hazards have
been properly studied and mitigated before permits can be applied for and issued. In other
cases, construction financing and interest rates have resulted in some developers of entitled
projects to wait until rates decrease before pulling building permits. In other cases, lots remain
undeveloped simply by choice of the property owner. Next, there are very few
undeveloped/vacant parcels left in Cottonwood Heights. Some, while zoned residential, are
located in geographic areas that are unbuildable due to steep slopes (mountain foothills), fault
lines, natural waterways, etc. Others are large parcels that are anticipated to be redeveloped,
but which require extensive master planning prior to being ready for building permit application.
Most of the easily developable land in the city has long been developed, so remaining land is
often challenging or complicated to entitle, either requiring zone changes, major redevelopment
of existing development, or mitigating complex engineering/geologic challenges. Last includes
public concerns. Local opposition to increased density has slowed rezonings and entitlements in
some neighborhoods.

Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.).
• The city is also considering forming a Gravel Pit CRA which could bring future infrastructure
investment to support these units.•Moderate-income unit tracking is being conducted
annually.•The city is working on form-based code adoption and General Plan updates to better
support missing middle housing.

                                                                                                  162
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external,
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date.


How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units?
(select one)
Count of business licenses or permits to rent issued

Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission
date:
14 licensed units, with 5 additional applications pending (since ordinance adoption in 2021). The
city is aware, anecdotally, that many more ADUs exist but are unlicensed .


Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
14 (this does not include new construction by large developers, who are building new homes to
accommodate ADUs, but cannot obtain ADU licenses until the homes are sold and occupied by
a long-term owner ).


Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
14



Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please
provide the count and type of permit or license issued)
NA




                                                                                                163
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report.

1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. (For the list of
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
E
F
J
P


2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is
still helpful to making progress on the strategy.
E
Continued implementation of the city's ADU ordinance, allowing for internal and detached ADUs
in single-family residential areas (ADU ordinance originally adopted in 2021).

F
Previously, this item reported that a form-based code was in development that will create new
zoning designation and land use regulations for properties within the city's primary commercial
corridor (Fort Union Boulevard).The city is in the final stages of adopting a form-based
ordinance along its primary commercial corridor, Fort Union Boulevard. This ordinance allows
for a mix of uses and building types, including multi-family residential units, as a permitted use
with no maximum density. The form-based code is a new zoning designation that is intended to
be initiated by the city on these properties. Part of the progress in the several years has been
providing notice to property owners and educating them on ordinance changes. The City has
continued implementation of the tracking the number of moderate-income housing units in
developments along the corridor.

J
The City created an ordinance (Title 19, Chapter 19.78) that creates opportunity for a planned
development district (PDD) with high density allowances. The planned development ordinance
requires deed-restricted units in these development areas (a minimum of 10-15% of multifamily
units must be deed-restricted units) to maintain affordability in valuable redevelopment areas.
The City actively tracks projects that are using the zoning incentives tool to ensure that new




                                                                                                164
development provides moderate income housing in projects. Additionally, the City requires
developers to submit quarterly reports on the number of affordable units in addition to
information on how the units are marketed.

P
The city purchased a redevelopment property that was an underutilized shopping center,
approximately 10 acres in size. In 2024/2025, the city completed a master plan for
redevelopment of this property as a mixed-use town center, which includes a multi-family
housing element on site. The city completed the RFP process and selected a development
partner that will now work to finalize construction plans and develop the project in the city’s
vision. This is an area that was previously 100% commercial use, being revitalized into a mixed-
use project that includes a needed housing type within the city. As previously reported on, part
of the purchase of that parcel included the utilization of a $1.5 million grant issued by the
Governor's Office of Economic Opportunity. A contingency of this grant was that affordable
housing would be implemented within the site.




3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the
strategy.
E
With an ordinance in place, the city has continued to process and review applications for
accessory dwelling units in residential areas. While the city is aware that numerous ADUs exist
that are unlicensed with the city, the city has also approved 14 ADU licenses, with 5 additional
applications pending. The city also created a webpage and informational handouts to help
educate residents on the steps required to obtain an ADU license.

F
The city is in the final stages of adopting a form-based ordinance to implement this goal along
its primary commercial corridor, and one prime for redevelopment, Fort Union Boulevard. The
form-based code is intended to be a rezone of properties, initiated by the city, that will allow for
more flexible future land uses that allows, as a permitted use, multi-family residential in all areas
where the form-based code will apply. Some of those areas are currently limited to commercial
only. Once adopted, the potential to incorporate higher density, and affordable housing in
commercial and mixed-use development projects will be more attainable. The form-based code
received a unanimous recommendation of approval by the Planning Commission in June 2024,
and the commission met with the City Council October 2024 to continue discussion. Upon
adoption, the form-based code zoning will be applied to hundreds of properties along Fort Union
Boulevard, creating more incentives for mixed-use redevelopment with residential uses, and a
streamlined entitlement process for such redevelopment. The City had also purchased property
that would be redeveloped into a town center and would include mixed-use (public space, retail,
and housing) under the form-based code. Developers and landowners are actively taking




                                                                                                  165
advantage of this change. Two mixed-use projects (ICO and Wasatch Rock Planned
Development Zones) under this provision have been entitled (one completed), creating mixed-
use developments with substantially more housing options available (1 total housing unit
between the two projects originally (entitled granted for over 600 units between the two
projects).The City has also procured funding through the Wasatch Front Regional Council the
General Plan, which will include a substantial affordable housing element. Additionally, the City
has received funding to complete the form-based redevelopment code, which will assist in
implementing the land use and housing recommendations from the updated General Plan. Both
projects are currently underway. The City has amended the implementation mechanism to
identify development strategies to utilize public-private partnerships and resources to improve
active infrastructure along Fort Union Boulevard by the end of 2027.

J
The City has implemented a density bonus system which has resulted in over twenty 50 percent
AMI units and over forty 80 percent AMI units. One project (ICO) contains approximately 200
total residential units – 21 of which are affordable to households earning not more than 50%
AMI. This project is completed and fully occupied. A second project (Wasatch Rock Planned
Development Zone) has received development entitlement, with site construction, permitting,
and plan review underway. Of the 400 total residential units in the entitled project, 15% of units
will be affordable to households earning not more than 80% of AMI. This 6-phase development
process will include affordable housing in the first phase with 15 percent of the units being
affordable. It is anticipated that final permits will be issued, and work will commence for this
building late summer or fall 2025.This demonstrates significant progress towards the city's goals
and implementation of this strategy. The City has amended the implementation mechanism to
identify local financial incentives for development of targeted housing types such as FHIZ/HOPZ
zones, use of future TIF/CDRA funds, fee waivers/reductions for MIH projects, etc. by the end of
2025.

P
The City Council voted to adopt bond parameters on August 20, 2024 and placed a $25 million
bond on the November 2024 ballot. The bond, and anticipated TIF, will directly the city directly
implement the envisioned project. The city recently selected a development partner in June
2025 that will work to finalize construction plans and develop the 10-acre redevelopment site in
the city’s vision. Additional financial tools in addition to bonding have include tax-increment
financing, either via typical CRA TIF or via new housing-focused TIF tools, such as the First
Home Investment Zone. It is intended the process of establishing TIF collection within the new
CRA will begin the next year. In conjunction with the Form-Based Code previously reported on,
these tools seek to not only create policy that incentivizes and lowers barriers to affordable
housing but also targets them specifically in the heart of the city’s envisioned town center area.
In 2023, the city’s Community Development and Renewal Agency also gave city staff direction
to continue proceeding with the creation of a Community Reinvestment area for the Big
Cottonwood Canyon Gravel Pit area. This process is still ongoing with taxing entities, but if
successfully created, will include a moderate-income housing set aside. It is anticipated that this
process will begin sometime in mid- to late-2026, dependent on when development plans for the




                                                                                                166
gravel pit area are presented to the city. In addition to the town center area and future gravel pit
area, the city’s RDA holds approximately $1.5 million in funds from previously completed
Community Development Areas. It will be recommended to the city’s CDRA that 10% of those
funds be invested, via cooperation and support from SLCO, into a regional affordable housing
fund.




4.       Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy.
E
Issuance of approximately 14 ADU licenses in the specified timeline, with additional applications
currently pending and/or in review . Slowly, the city is beginning to see an increase in
calls/meetings/applications for ADU licenses. Additionally, the city has met with numerous
developers of new subdivisions who are constructing new homes with ADUs in mind. However,
ADU licenses cannot be issued until homes are sold and occupied by long-term residents, due
to the city's owner-occupancy ADU license requirement. The city’s comprehensive General Plan
update is currently in progress and will continue to emphasize the use of accessory dwelling
units in residential zones as a tool to implement affordable housing in a way that does not
create a disproportionate impact on existing areas in the city. The city anticipates that
applications will continue to be received from residents seeking to create formal ADUs. The City
has amended the implementation mechanism to include ways streamline the ADU application
process, including the research of other cities ADU standards and looking to develop a “card
file” system to expedite review times.

F
Unanimous recommendation of approval of the Form-Based Code by the Planning Commission
in June 2024, with continued discussions in October 2024. Along major corridors, the city has
adopted and/or is considering zoning options that accommodate residential density within
commercially zoned areas. The City has fairly high permitted density in these areas (35 units
per acre in its mixed-use zone), aligning with the City’s consideration of a form-based
development code that will continue to accommodate these types of densities in key commercial
redevelopment areas. Recently, the city has begun the process of developing a neighborhood
mixed-use land use type to accommodate smaller-scale mixed-use projects in its Neighborhood
Commercial areas. The City has amended the implementation mechanism to ensure mixed-use
housing options are properly codified, defined, and regulated in various non-residential district
by the end of 2025.

J
The ICO Fort Union project includes 21 units that are deed-restricted affordable units to
households earning 50% or less of AMI. All 21 units are occupied by qualifying households.
Wasatch Rock has begun site work on it’s 21-acre mixed-use project. A building permit is




                                                                                                  167
currently in review for Phase I of this project, which is an apartment building with approximately
400 total units, 15% of which are required to be deed-restricted affordable units to households
earning 80% or less of area median income. It is anticipated that final permits will be issued,
and work will commence for this building late summer or fall 2025.

P
The city completed a master plan for the redevelopment of the Town Center CRA. This site,
owned by the city, includes a multi-family housing element on site. It is intended that
redevelopment of this site catalyzes redevelopment of the surrounding area. The proposed
form-based code allows the city to achieve its Town Center redevelopment visions while
lowering some procedural barriers for property owners and developers and allowing flexibility in
land use types (including residential) that do not currently exist. The Council has held numerous
discussions in work sessions, providing direction to pursue a general obligation bond, and
explore other tax-increment financing measures (TIF, FHIZ, HOPZ, etc.). These funds will result
either in being set aside for affordable housing, or construction of affordable housing units, both
at the town center site and within the surrounding area. The city is continually working to
transfer old CDA funds of $1.5M to the town center site. 10% these funds will be recommended
to be earmarked for affordable housing.




5.      What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers
were experienced, write "None."
E
Uptake of the city’s ADU ordinance and licensure process has picked up in the last year but
remains relatively slow. All resources are in place and staff are knowledgeable and quick in
assisting with applications. The city is aware that numerous unlicensed ADUs exist in the city,
so public education, reminding residents to obtain ADU licensing, is important. The city also has
regulations for detached ADUs that contain more rigorous standards that not all residences and
properties can comply with. As such, the city has had numerous meetings with parties
interested in constructing detached ADUs but has only issued two licenses to date.

F
Implementation of large-scale policy changes is slow and takes time. Time has been spent
refining the form-based code and providing adequate notice and education to property owners
that may be impacted by the city's form-based code adoption. These policies are impactful and
have the potential to make substantial progress towards implementing additional housing but
take time and coordination with private landowners and developers to come to fruition.




                                                                                                168
J
The primary barrier to this strategy is time, and reliance on the private development market to
move projects forward. Both projects, now being implemented, received original entitlement
years ago. These large projects are complex, included multiple phases, and require substantial
investment by private developers to implement. That said, progress is finally being made and
affordable units are now being constructed, and the city feels that its strategy has been
successful in developing a policy that gives developers flexibility and helps achieve the city's
housing goals .

P
Redevelopment master planning is difficult and takes an extensive amount of time, including
public input, coordination with existing businesses and private property owners, etc. Policies
have been established, a vision is in place, substantial progress has been made, and the city
has invested heavily in the success of this project, but full implementation of the envisioned
change, from policy to construction, takes time, and continues to be influenced by development
and market trends. Based on the preferred site master plan, the proposed public financing via
general obligation bond and TIF is necessary to implement the vision.

6.      Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy
(e.g., units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.).
E
City staff receives substantially more calls and questions about ADUs than it has in the past.
Often, realtors will ask if a property is eligible for an ADU so it can be advertised that way when
a property is put up for sale. We have also seen two licenses transfer from the seller of a
property to the new buyer, continuing that ADU even amidst an ownership change. As
mentioned above, while slow, the city is starting to see an increase in interest in licensing and
expects this trend to continue.

F
Implementation of this strategy will result in the potential for entitlement of additional residential
units along the city's existing commercial corridor. Implementation will occur over time via
redevelopment. The city has already engaged with several property owners and development
groups interested in developing under the new form-based code standards. The policy has not
resulted in any direct market changes yet but has resulted in increased interest from developers
exploring redevelopment .

J
Implementation of this strategy has resulted in the entitlement of 60 deed-restricted affordable
housing units being created, with approximately 21 of which are now fully permitted,
constructed, and occupied. Including these deed-restricted affordable housing units, these
projects have resulted in the entitlement of 600 new housing units total (400 entitled in one
project, 200 permitted and either partially or fully constructed and occupiable in the other
project). These projects displaced one single housing unit (an old single-family home) during




                                                                                                   169
their development (the other development site was a previous industrial/mining land use).
Developers continue to show interest in using this development ordinance on other large
redevelopment sites in the city. In a city where large developments are rare, these two projects
demonstrate good city planning policy to find ways to accommodate growth and provide housing
in ways that most effectively utilize what little undeveloped land remains in Cottonwood Heights.
The permits and approvals, and the progress made on these projects in the past year
demonstrates the effectiveness of the city's utilization of this strategy .

P
Development and redevelopment of the city's town center area will create additional uses and
will introduce residential uses in an area that has historically been commercial. This town center
vision is a community-oriented smart growth solution. As reported previously, Cottonwood
Heights is not seeing a lot of new housing units constructed (largely due to available land
constraints and the high cost of redevelopment), and implementation of this Strategy will provide
the opportunity to add units without displacing others. It is also envisioned that these units will
accommodate range of residents with varying socioeconomic backgrounds .




7.     Links to supporting documentation (Optional)

E

F
https://www.chtowncenter.com/ - town center project website / www.ch.utah.gov/fbc - form-
based code website

J

P


       Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional)

E

F

J

P




                                                                                                170
FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply)
Housing supply data,Housing needs data,Model ordinances.,Case studies for strategies

Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A)
I have appreciated the legislature’s recent attempts to create new tools and mechanisms to
implement MIH. This includes new financing tools such as FHIZ and HOPZ, but the legislature
has also explored options to make such projects easier for private developers to implement. The
city has done a lot of work to create policies that are conducive to the type of housing needed in
Cottonwood Heights, but it often can’t be implemented without a private landowner/developer
willing to invest in a way that is not as common as what they are used to. My recommendation is
to continue to explore tools that allow cities and developers to work together, collaboratively, on
the issue of providing MIH, rather than placing the burden too much on one-party. Implementing
housing, especially in a built-out community like Cottonwood Heights, takes time and creativity
to be successful. We do not have a large supply of land that is readily available and easy to
develop .



If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following:
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your
community a written certification of compliance.
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov.
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10).


Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report.




                                                                                                   171
