                                    FONT
                                    R A L E WA


                                    CO LO R S C H




O G D E N VA L L E Y
GG
O   DE
  E N ENR AVL A P
                L LL A
                     EYN
G E N E R A L P L A N U P D AT E




P L A N         ST U DY




                                   2 0 1 6
Table of Contents
Introduction                              3

Public Involvement                        3

Visioning Workshops                       4
Scenarios Workshops                       8
Choices Workshop                          12
    3-D Rendering                         14
Big Ideas Online Survey                   16
Land Use Online Survey                    18

Plan Elements                             29

Land Use                                  20
    Open Space Map                        23

Residential Development and Housing       24
Commercial Development                    27
    Zions Bank Impact Report Summary      30
Transportation and Mobility               31
    NACTO Bicycle Land Classificaitons    33
Utilities and Public Services             39
Parks and Recreation                      41



Appendices                                46

A. Glossary of Terms                      47
B. Vision Document                        52
C.. Big Ideas Survey Summary              68
D. Land Use Survey Summary                120
E. Zions Bank Fiscal Impact Report        154
F. Water Subcommittee Meeting Summaries   166
G. Interplan Transportation Memorandum    186

2                                               PLAN STUDY
INTRODUCTION
This Plan Study is a companion document to the Ogden Valley General Plan document and contains back-
ground and supporting information that was collected during the General Plan update process. The Plan
Study is organized to parallel the chapter structure of the General Plan and contains background informa-
tion relevant to each General Plan element. The General Plan text provides summary information and con-
clusions that form the basis for establishing the goals, policies and implementation of the Plan. This Plan
Study also includes more detailed information and ideas for implementation strategies that are described
in the General Plan.

The Public Involvement section includes summaries of the public involvement events and processes.
In order to prepare for the early public involvement workshops, snapshots of information relevant to the
Plan elements were prepared. Although the snapshots were prepared as part of the public involvement
process, they are reported in each Plan element section so that the development of the information and
analyses that led to development of the Plan element goals, policies and implementation are presented in
chronological order.



PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT
Effective general plans are based on the character of the community and the val-
ues held by its residents. This plan was based on broad input received through an
extensive and multifaceted public involvement process. The process was designed
to help the community drill down to core interests, desires, and concepts about the
way Ogden Valley should develop in the coming years. Considering the amount of
                                                                                                 5,000
                                                                                                postcards mailed to
planning in the Valley over the past two decades, it was imperative that the com-
                                                                                             residents and businesses
munity was enabled to think broadly about the future without the pressure of fil-
tering their thoughts through past planning constraints. The process was designed
to bridge the community’s imagination about the future in order to challenge the
perceptions of the past.                                                                              400
                                                                                             interested residents and
In addition to clarifying the community’s vision for the desired future of the Valley,
                                                                                             businesses on the project
public input was useful for determining the effectiveness of past planning efforts
                                                                                                     email list.
and was instrumental in identifying new opportunities and new priority projects for
the future.

The consultant team used a variety of methods to gain the broadest possible par-                    1,649
ticipation and input from Valley residents and stakeholders. Early in the project, the         engaged through www.
team held one-on-one and small-group interviews with a cross section of over 30                   ValleyPlan.com
community leaders and representatives. A Citizen Advisory Committee was formed
to offer feedback on project events, review draft materials, and brainstorm ideas and
implementation strategies. The Ogden Valley Plan website (www.ValleyPlan.com)
was established as an informational hub for the planning process, providing links to
documents and notification of opportunities to participate. After each major event,
                                                                                                       307
                                                                                             online survey responses
materials were posted online to continue the dialogue and to give those not in atten-                received
dance a chance to participate.

Four open houses and workshops were held to inform and gather feedback from
the community during different phases of the process. After some workshops, online                     320
surveys were used to help answer follow-up questions. By using online surveys to                   written public
complement the workshops, feedback was compiled consistently and effectively                    comments submitted
across mediums. Mobile workshops were held at various locations throughout the
Valley to engage different demographics, and presentations at the junior high school     These numbers are prior to the Draft Plan
brought together different perspectives.                                                 Open House held on October 28, 2015.




                                                                                                                                3
Visioning Workshops
Visioning Workshops were held as the first opportunity for public engagement in the process of updating
the 1998 Ogden Valley General Plan to identify key issues and priorities to be examined during the plan
update project and to articulate elements of the community vision. The events were held on November
6 at Snowcrest Junior High in Eden, and November 7 at the Weber County Ogden Valley Branch Library in
Huntsville.

The General Plan relies on broad community input to express the community’s values and over 200 resi-
dents and property owners participated at the workshops. The workshops were publicized by sending out
more than 5,000 postcards to all Ogden Valley property owners; posting online announcements at www.
ValleyPlan.com and on the County’s social media pages; publishing announcements in the Ogden Stan-
dard Examiner; and through word of mouth from active community groups.

At the meetings, informational boards explained the impetus for an update to the Ogden Valley General
Plan, described general characteristics of the Valley, and displayed key facts about how the Valley has
changed in the last decade. Supplemental materials were provided at the workshops and online to illus-
trate current conditions and trends for demographics, housing, economics, land use, transportation, parks,
recreation, open space, and trails in Ogden Valley.

Participants could drop by at any time during the workshops to review materials and participate in dis-
cussions with facilitators and fellow community members. Three discussion stations focused on different
themes: Economics & Commercial Development, Land Use & Transportation, and Parks, Recreation, Open
Space, & Trails. At each station, participants were asked, “What would you like to be different in Ogden Val-
ley in 20 years?” and “What would you like to be the same in Ogden Valley 20 years from now?” The ideas
of workshop participants are reported below.

ECONOMIC AND COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT
In general, opinions are mixed about the role of commercial development in the Valley. Many feel that
Ogden City’s proximity to the Valley serves commercial and retail needs appropriately. Some indicate
that a little more retail would be nice, while others express the desire for enough commercial that tourists
can leave more economic benefit behind. The sentiment that any new retail businesses should be locally
owned was very strong. Many indicated that big box stores or chain stores are not favored, and that no new
retail businesses should be built until existing businesses are near capacity.

Much of the conversation focused on what future commercial development should look like. A common
value is that commercial development should not be located near gateways to the Valley or along major
highways. Generally, Huntsville’s model of retail businesses tucked inside the town was supported. Many
would like to see architectural design standards similar to those of a mountain or western town – not only
for building development, but also for streetscapes and civic places. In general, participants agreed that
commercial buildings should not be developed in large strip centers, but should instead be individual
storefronts matching in general style.

The topic of whether commercial development should be organized in nodes was a key point of conver-
sation. Many of the participants desire a “main street” type of development or a commercial center for the
whole Valley, while others support a development concept with commercial nodes in key places through-
out the Valley. A few participants expressed leaving development as-is with no nodes or main commercial
center.

The majority of participants expressed some type of desire to have Valley events (marathons, triathlons,
etc.) organized to benefit the Valley in some way. Ideas ranged from having race participants pay a fee to
fund open space acquisition or Valley roads/amenities, to establishing enough lodging or eating establish-
ments to encourage local spending. A few supported either capping or altogether eliminating organized
recreation events in the Valley.

4                                                                                               PLAN STUDY
TRANSPORTATION
Transportation was the topic that generated the most conversation and comment. Most of the 86 trans-
portation comments focused on four subjects, Ogden Canyon, the four-way intersection in Eden, alter-
native modes of transportation, and access to the Valley in the case of emergency (which was commonly
discussed in connection with the North Ogden Divide).

While many participants agreed that Ogden Canyon traffic can be dangerous and over-congested, there
were differing opinions on how to mitigate conditions. Much of the conversation focused on multi-mod-
al transportation; that is, adding transit or bike facilities in the canyon. Other participants thought that not
allowing semi-trucks or widening the road were the best solutions.

The 4-way intersection in Eden was a concern. Several participants indicate that the intersection is too
busy, and worry that it may essentially fail as development at Powder Mountain intensifies. Many would
like to see the intersection become a round-a-bout to help traffic movement, but others feel that the lo-
cation does not have enough traffic to warrant a round-a-bout. Most agreed that no stoplights should be
allowed.

Alternative modes of transportation were a common conversation. Bike paths, pedestrian paths, and a
major pathway all around Pineview Reservoir are generally supported. Many participants express a de-
sire for public transit service in the Valley, at least during rush hour. There are many ideas on how public
transit could be organized, such as a loop around the reservoir, connecting to the ski resorts, or connecting
the library to the schools. Many felt that if UTA cannot justify service, then Weber County should explore
creating their own system. Emergency access to the Valley was a final major topic. If North Ogden Divide
is blocked for construction, and Ogden Canyon has a marathon, it presents a great concern for emergency
access. Not many solutions to this concern were presented, but one idea with mixed feedback is improv-
ing the Liberty to Avon road.

GOVERNANCE
A strong theme from participants was a sense that realtors and developers get too much say in what
happens in the Valley, and residents’ interests aren’t observed in land-use decision-making. There is also
considerable concern about a perceived lack of representation and advocacy for Valley interests on the
County Commission. Many commented that Valley issues are often subordinated or altogether lost in de-
cision-making that focuses on Weber County and Wasatch Front issues. A major local governance chal-
lenge exists in relation to management of Pineview Reservoir. Better cooperation between government
agencies and managing personnel is desired, as well as more enforcement for activities taking place at the
reservoir. Better enforcement of County ordinances (e.g., sign ordinances) was also brought up.

LAND USE AND HOUSING
The majority of the discussion in regard to land use and housing focused on whether the current prevailing
3-acre density zoning is appropriate, and how many units at maximum build-out the Valley can support.
There are mixed views of this density standard; some feel it encourages weed patches while others feel it
preserves the rural atmosphere.

Clustering, Transfer of Development Rights, and Purchase of Development Rights were discussed. While
many support TDRs and PDRs in concept, some are unconvinced that they actually work to help manage
development patterns and preserve open space. Clustering of development likewise received mixed
responses, with many supporting it as a way to preserve the open space of the Valley, while others con-
sider it potentially inconsistent with rural character because it does not match the agricultural or farm-land
archetype.

Several participants offered criticism of clustering and TDRs. Many feel TDRs haven’t been used as growth



                                                                                                                   5
management tools, but have instead resulted in density bonuses and more units of development in the
Valley. Others see the potential to use TDRs to encourage multifamily housing in the Valley as an alterna-
tive to more sprawling patterns of single-family development on the foothills of the Valley. Many indicated
that the best locations for denser development would be in Eden or at the ski resorts. Participants com-
monly expressed difficulty understanding or visualizing the Valley with upwards of 20,000 units, and felt
that the Valley infrastructure could not support that quantity of development.

Another common sentiment is that the Valley is becoming too expensive, and that families and generations
are being “priced-out” of living in the Valley. Several respondents indicated that very expensive homes
and land sales are causing escalating property taxes that are not affordable. Several younger participants
indicated that they would like to live in the Valley as adults “if they could afford it”.

OPEN SPACE AND THE ENVIRONMENT
The most widespread value statements in the visioning workshops centered on the love of the rural atmo-
sphere, open pastures, and mountains in the backdrop. Open space is a central value for Valley residents.
Many consider the preservation of open space to be the most important means for protecting the charac-
ter of the Valley. Participants want open space that protects view sheds, and want the Valley to stay visual-
ly similar to its current condition. Open space along all major roadways was commonly mentioned, as well
as open space between houses. This was noted as a way to keep the rural character of the Valley. Several
participants mentioned the need for an Open Space Coordinator position at Weber County.

Since nearly every participant agreed with open space preservation, much of the discussion focused on
how to do it. Park City was brought up commonly as a case study, as they bonded for open space with
around 80% support in the last election. Conservation easements and support for the Ogden Valley Land
Trust were also expressed.

Several other desires were mentioned in relation to visual quality. Ridgeline protection was the most com-
mon element drawn on the land use and open space maps. It is important to many residents that ridge-
lines are protected, and also that current County ordinances be enforced to ensure protection of visual
resources during development review. Protecting wildlife areas and access to rivers and streams was
discussed widely, and Dark Skies were commonly mentioned as important to incorporate into the General
Plan in order to keep the rural atmosphere of Ogden Valley.

Some also expressed the desire to be proactive about environmentally friendly practices, such as house-
hold recycling and environmental building practices.

WATER AND AIR
The conversations on water quality and availability were important in relation to future growth. Many felt
that we do not know or understand the water constraints in Ogden Valley and are unsure if the Valley can
sustain the growth that might occur under current zoning. This concern was also expressed for septic
systems. Although support for a community-wide sewer system was expressed to preserve water quality,
others were concerned that a Valley-wide system could stimulate growth.

Air quality was also discussed. Participants were concerned with how future growth would affect air qual-
ity, especially given the Valley’s heavy reliance on automobiles for mobility. They expressed the desire to
have environmental friendly standards, such as restricting the use of fireplaces or wood burning stoves,
and considering transit solutions. They do not want Ogden Valley to have to deal with the same air quality
problems that the Wasatch Front and Cache Valley experience each year.




6                                                                                              PLAN STUDY
PARKS, RECREATION, AND TRAILS
Pineview Reservoir is a focal point for Valley life and recreation. Conversation centered on concerns about
the capacity of the reservoir to support growing use. Many discussed the sentiment that there are too
many boats at once, and they provided various suggestions on mitigations such as limiting boat size. Addi-
tionally, concerns were raised for non-motorized recreation users’ safety. The desire for a complete des-
tination trail around Pineview Reservoir was frequently mentioned. Parking demand, user fees, and facility
management were all topics raised in reference to Pineview Reservoir management.

Although participants were happy with the strides to build more trails in recent years, there is common
sentiment that trails need to be better connected throughout the Valley. There was mixed discussion on
need for motorized recreational vehicle access on these trails, with some in support and others against.
There was also interest in developing more equestrian trail opportunities. A trail up Ogden Canyon was
generally supported. There was little conversation on recreation facilities, like courts or fields, but respon-
dents did express support for additional parks.




                                                                                                              7
Scenarios Workshop
The Scenarios Workshop was held to review and comment on alternative growth strategies to be con-
sidered moving forward in the General Plan update process. The workshop was held on February 26 at
Snowcrest Junior High in Eden, with mobile outreach the following day around the Valley. 66 individuals
signed-in for the meeting, with an additional estimated 20 individuals that participated but did not sign-in.

Three alternative future growth scenarios were presented (below). Informational boards explained the
scenario and its components. Participants were invited to comment on what they liked or didn’t like about
each scenario, as well as give ideas on their own ideal future scenario. The intent was to find out what as-
pects of each scenario the community would like the consultant team to evaluate and flesh out as poten-
tial growth management strategies. No individual scenario was proposed as a single way to move forward,
but as a collection of ideas and options to provide comment on.




On pages 9 - 11 are the results from each scenario. Participants were asked to measure how each scenar-
io performed given the below criteria, with 1 being the worst and 3 being the best. Although these score
cards do provide us with a snapshot of the participant’s feelings on possible scenarios to measure, some
participants placed more than one sticker by their vote, which might have swayed the outcome.

The scenarios in Figure 1 are color coded based on amount of sticker dots received in each category. Red
is the lowest amount of dots, green is the highest, and yellow is in the middle.




8                                                                                                PLAN STUDY
Figure 1: Scenario Poster Results

   Business as Usual


    Natural Environment             1          2               3
   Preservation of views            10          2              9
   Preservation of natural
   assets                           10          2              8

   Farm acreage protected           8           1              9
   Air and water quality            8           1              8
   Dark sky quality                 12          1              10

   Social Environment
   Development values
   compensated                      3           2              10

   Diversity of employment          6           1               6
   Recreational quality             6           0               8
   Jobs per household               3           1               6
   Preservation of heritage         5           1              11

   Built Environment
   Commercial diversity
   (services available)             5           3              7

   Housing diversity                6           2              7
   Access to water, sewer, and
   power systems                    7           1              8

   Retention and promotion of
   character                        6           2              6

   Mobility choices available       6           2              6




                                         1|Ogden Valley General Plan


                                                                       9
     Villages and Farms


     Natural Environment           1          2               3
     Preservation of views         5           3              15
     Preservation of natural
     assets                        4           3              11

     Farm acreage protected        5           3              15
     Air and water quality         13          2              15
     Dark sky quality              6           4              15

     Social Environment
     Development values
     compensated                   7           9              1

     Diversity of Employment       4           6              1
     Recreational quality          6           1              7
     Jobs per household            5           5              0
     Preservation of heritage      6           8              3

     Built Environment
     Commercial diversity
     (services available)          7           7              2

     Housing diversity             6           6              2
     Access to water, sewer, and
     power systems                 12          1              4

     Retention and promotion of
     character                     2           6              8

     Mobility choices available    5           6              1




                                        2|Ogden Valley General Plan




10                                                                 PLAN STUDY
Town Centers


Natural Environment           1          2               3
Preservation of views         13          2              20
Preservation of natural
assets                        14          2              16

Farm acreage protected        16          8              14
Air and water quality         19          1              12
Dark sky quality              15          3              9

Social Environment
Development values
compensated                   11          5              2

Diversity of Employment       9           2              4
Recreational quality          9           4              2
Jobs per household            9           2              3
Preservation of heritage      14          4              4

Built Environment
Commercial diversity
(services available)          12          1              6

Housing diversity             11          2              6
Access to water, sewer, and
power systems                 7           3              6

Retention and promotion of
character                     14          2              4

Mobility choices available    21          2              4




                                   3|Ogden Valley General Plan




                                                                 11
Community Choices Workshop
The Community Choices Workshop was held on Thursday, April 30th at the Weber County Ogden Valley
Branch Library in Huntsville. The meeting was noticed on www.ValleyPlan.com, on social media pages, in
the Ogden Standard Examiner, through General Plan email lists, by signs placed throughout the Valley, and
through word of mouth from active community groups. Over 100 citizens were engaged at the workshop.

An informational presentation was given at the workshop as an overview of existing conditions, growth
pressures, and of the Big Ideas Survey results. Following the presentation, the participants broke into 5
small working groups to workshop through “choices” questions and to help establish a future land-use
map. Supplemental materials were provided at the workshop and online to illustrate key questions and
visual examples of options. Following the break-out session, the group reconvened in to give a report of
recommendations from their groups. Electronic voting for preferred ideas was set up, but unfortunately
time ran out to use this tool. Participants were still able to share their group’s recommendations, which
was the goal and intent of the reporting exercise.

Following the workshop, on Friday, May 1st from 3:00 – 6:00 pm, the consultant set up a mobile plan sta-
tion at the Valley Market to reach individuals who were not able to make it to the workshop or who did not
know about the workshop. It is estimated that 30 individuals participated in this event, about half unaware
of the prior workshop and half aware, but unable to attend the night before. The ideas of participants from
both events are reported below. The consultants received valuable information on every category and
felt they had enough public comment to move forward, except on the topic of Land Use, where there was
still some question regarding public support for alternative ways to manage future land development and
growth.

The consensus recommendations and questions included:

TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE
• Ban semi-trucks from using Ogden Canyon.
• Consider mass transit within Ogden Valley and out of the Valley.
• No additional roads, but encourage traffic to use Trapper’s Loop
• A park and ride lot is needed at bottom of canyon.
• Put another lane on Trapper’s Loop.
• Water needs to be shown to be adequate for any development.
• Honor senior water rights before any new development is approved.
• No billboards.
• Guide road development to focus on clustered development.
• Be careful with road expansions, particularly in Ogden Canyon.
• Should there be a centralized water system or authority in the Valley?

OPEN SPACE AND SENSITIVE LANDS
• Support for a stricter County ordinance for lighting.
• Don’t build on ridgelines, hill tops, steep slopes or riparian areas, and limit slope development t 20% or
  lower slopes.
• Drop slope limit (from 30%) and require independent geotechnical studies
• Require dark sky preservation requirements on all future residential, commercial, and governmental
  development
• Dark sky should be required and phased in for all old building within 10 years
• Keep all open space that is currently designated
• Support Ogden Valley Land Trust/tax incentives for agriculture
• Prioritize protection of riparian and sensitive areas
• Move open space to government owned conversation easements for more protection
• Resist state grab of federal lands


12                                                                                              PLAN STUDY
•   Create incentives for moving land into conservation easements
•   Expand riparian zone

RECREATION AND COMMUNITY CHARACTER
• Support architectural design standards for commercial buildings.
• Support sustainable building codes
• Acquire land to expand parks
• Enforce zoning and complete implementation of agreements made on open space (Wolf Creek)
• Prioritize pathways and Pineview Reservoir for recreation funding
• Establish Old Eden design standards  set tone for overall Valley feel
• Support Valley-wide signage design
• Management and overuse of Pineview is a problem.

COMMUNITY CENTERS AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
• Keep retail local.
• Minimize impact of chain restaurants.
• No big box stores
• Charge 10% for any event held in Valley (except events at resorts) to put towards open space preserva-
   tion.
• Height limit on commercial building
• Design Standards for commercial development
• Keep commercial development in Old Eden village area, Huntsville, Wolf Creek village area, corner of
   Trappers Loop, and a little bit in Liberty. Let it fill in naturally.
• Cluster development around commercial
• Plaza, splash pad, or something similar by Old Eden town center
• Bring businesses to capitalize on outdoor setting
• At least one group reported that they would support building vertically to preserve other areas.
• More retail restaurants
• Design standards should include:
  • Lighting controls
  • Small footprint in high-density areas - built up
  • 4 story maximum

LAND USE AND NEIGHBORHOODS
• Do people support preserving subdivisions with no requirements for curb, gutter (allow them to use dirt
  roads rather than paved roads)?
• Bond for open space
• No density bonuses
• TDR’s receiving areas away from sensitive areas
• Incentive for resorts: certain high value areas may get higher bonuses
• No support for downzoning
• Open space initiative/bond for open space  Valley needs money to preserve open space
• Open space needs to be combined into common area land to be taxed differently
• Ogden Valley Land Trust needs to be involved in open space preservation decisions.
• Make an environment where large landowners want to come here.
• Write a preservation subdivision ordinance that large land owners can qualify for -- allow them to di-
  vide their land and give to their kids.
• Cluster all subdivisions  not mandatory, use incentives
• Support cluster subdivisions
• See PRD/TDR in rural subdivision
• #1 is that General Plan needs to be enforced




                                                                                                     13
3-D Buildout Rendering
One of the most important considerations and the focus of discussions of the future of Ogden Valley is the long-
term potential for development of new residences in the Valley. There are currently about 3,600 dwelling units in the
Valley. When the last general plan was adopted in 1998, a long-term build-out of a total of 6,200 residential units was
contemplated, nearly double the current number. The 2005 Ogden Valley Recreation Element of the General Plan
estimated an ultimate build-out of as many as 16,000 units, and Weber County’s most recent analysis suggests that,
if every currently authorized density unit, based on existing zoning, were built there could be as many as 24,000
residential units in 30 years. A number of physical and other limitations would most likely ultimately result in a smaller
number of residences, but all of these scenarios would have significant implications for the built, natural, and social
environments of Ogden Valley. In any event, the number of residences in Ogden Valley is expected to grow signifi-
cantly in the coming years. Early in the Ogden Valley planning process, discussions stalled at one key question: “what
should we do about future land use in the Valley?”

Discussion of substantial growth in the abstract made it difficult for Valley residents and landowners to comprehend
potential impacts, and project planners found it difficult to move forward in the planning process knowing that the
public needed additional, more understandable information to provide informed input on future land uses.
In order to put the numbers and planning information into an understandable context, project planners developed a
3-D rendering of Ogden Valley that depicted various future growth scenarios for consideration by project participants.
The rendering was developed on a base three dimensional image of Ogden Valley which could be moved to show
differing perspectives of the Valley. Natural features, structures and other development features were then placed
into the rendering to depict current and future alternative growth scenarios. Three stages of Valley development
were prepared.

As a starting point, Scenario 1 was developed to show the approximately 3,600 current residences and other struc-
tures placed on the 3-D base in their current locations and relative sizes;

There are currently 2,563 platted but as yet unbuilt residential parcels in Ogden Valley, and approximately 5,300
master planned approved but unbuilt units at the Snowbasin and Powder Mountain resorts. No additional discretion-
ary approval is required for these units to be built. Scenario 3 added these 7,863 future development units to the base
rendering in their approved locations and scales in order to visualize the effects of build out of the already approved
residential units.

In addition to existing and approved but as yet unbuilt development, the Ogden Valley planning area has approxi-
mately 200,000 acres of land that carries some development authorization through current zoning. Much of this land
is located in the hillside and mountainous areas of the Valley and future development would be difficult in these
areas. However, approximately 22,000 acres of currently zoned but undeveloped land is located on the Valley floor in
areas that would be relatively easy to develop. Project participants and planners don’t believe a scenario with 24,000
new residential units is realistic In order to depict a reasonably possible future growth scenario for planning purposes,
project planners prepared Scenario 3 by locating an additional 4,000 residential units on the Valley floor and clus-
tered in nearby foothills, in order to depict a future buildout of approximately 15,000 residential units.

Scenario 3 was developed by using ArcGIS (a geospatial analysis software) to place as many units as could fit in the
AV-3 zoned area and on agricultural parcels 10 acres or larger on the Valley floor according to current zoning (1 unit
per 3 acres). This approach was taken because it would be relatively easy to develop on the Valley floor as com-
pared to other areas of the Valley. This exercise resulted in running out of space for the full 4,000 units. To reach the
full 4,000 units, additional units were placed in other open spaces on the Valley floor (specifically on Lake Town and
near Nordic Valley) or in the foothills. Units were not placed on areas with steep slopes, environmental sensitivities,
and designated open spaces in order to make the rendering as realistic as possible. Designated open space included
lands owned by the Ogden Valley Land Trust, open space from development agreements, etc.

The 3-D rendering scenarios were displayed at the Choices Workshop after a presentation was given to discuss
expected population growth, a fiscal analysis, and a transportation analysis. The first scenario showed development in
the Valley, and was followed by Scenario 2 showing current and unbuilt platted and approved units. Meeting partic-
ipants were generally accepting of this level of development which would result in a total of approximately 11, 500
residential units located primarily in the resorts and on the Valley floor and foothills. Scenario 3 showing an additional
4,000 residences future buildout at approximately 15,000 raised concerns among project participants. Following


14                                                                                                         PLAN STUDY
the presentation, key questions about future land use
were discussed, including ideas about how to reduce or
minimize the impacts of likely future development in the
Valley.                                                                                                                                                                              RENDERING
The 3-D rendering offered information to project partic-                                                          Built Units                                                                                                                   3,762
ipants that created a tangible image of the present and
future of Ogden Valley, and prompted discussion of the                                                            Platted Vacant Parcels and Approved                                                                                           7,863
challenges and opportunities of future land use in a way                                                          Resort Units
that provided the public clear understanding of what the                                                          Total Built, Platted, Approved                                                                                                11,625
Valley could look like under current zoning potential. This
allowed participants to critically think about what level                                                         Unplatted, but Zoned Units                                                                                                    4,000
and type of development was acceptable to them. This
led to discussion of various land use tools, like cluster-                                                        Total Units Rendered                                                                                                          15,625
ing the purchase or transfer of development rights, with
greater understanding of what they could do for future
land-use patterns. The rendering was also made avail-
able on the project website for participants to download
and review at home in Google Earth.

 Built Units                                                                                                            Built Units + Platted Vacant Parcels + Resort Units




   ´ Units + Platted Vacant Parcels + Resort Units + Unplatted, but Zoned Units
  Built
                                                                                                                        ´
                                                                                                                                                                             Miles
                                  Miles                                                                             0    0.125 0.25                   0.5            0.75   1                                                                            Sources: Esri, HERE, DeLorme, Intermap, increment P Corp., GEBCO, USGS, FAO, NPS, NRCA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kadaster NL, Ordnance Survey, Esri Japan, METI, Esri China (Hong Kong), swisstopo
 0   0.125 0.25   0.5    0.75    1                        Sources: Esri, HERE, DeLorme, Intermap, increment P Corp., GEBCO, USGS, FAO, NPS, NRCAN, GeoBase, IGN,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OpenStreetMap contributors, and the GIS
                                                                  Kadaster NL, Ordnance Survey, Esri Japan, METI, Esri China (Hong Kong), swisstopo, MapmyIndia, ©
                                                                                                         OpenStreetMap contributors, and the GIS User Community




          ´                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15
                                                  Miles
      0     0.125 0.25          0.5       0.75   1                                                                                                                                    Sources: Esri, HERE, DeLorme, Intermap, increment P Corp., GEBCO, USGS, FAO, NPS, NRCAN, GeoBase, IGN,
Online Surveys

BIG IDEAS SURVEY SUMMARY
Following the Scenarios Workshop, a Big Ideas Survey was used to solicit follow-up feedback regarding the emerging
themes in public comments. The survey was available online and in hard copy at a mobile event at the Valley Market.
The survey presented a variety of ideas expressed at the Scenarios Workshop. The survey received 226 responses
(189 completed surveys, 37 partially complete). Respondents were from all over the valley and even some outside of
the valley. 50% identifed as Eden of their place of residence, 22% as Huntsville, 14% as Liberty, 10% as Ogden Canyon,
and 4% outside of the Valley. The most popular ideas from this survey, along with feedback received at the Scenarios
Workshop, were used to inform the Choices Workshop.

Participants were asked to rate each idea on a scale of 1 - 5, with 5 being the best and 1 the worst. Table 1 shows the
average rating for each idea. For the full 52 page summary report, please see the appendix of this document.



Table 1: Big Ideas Summary Table
                                                       Big Idea                                                    Average Rating
     1    Prohibit development on ridgelines.                                                                           4.38
     2    Acquire sensitive wildlife habitats and protect as open space.                                                4.33
          Prohibit development in riparian areas and immediately adjacent to creeks, rivers, and Pineview
     3                                                                                                                  4.28
          Reservoir.
      4   Enhance and complete the pathway around Pineview Reservoir.                                                   4.19
      5   Underground all power infrastructure over time.                                                               4.17
      6   Watershed protection ordinance to control new water system development.                                       4.14
      7   Prohibit development within a buffer adjacent to scenic corridors throughout the valley.                      4.13
      8   Require future commercial development be in currently defined commercial zones.                               4.09
      9   Focus future transportation spending on maintaining existing roads.                                           4.05
     10   Acquire non-agricultural land for open space.                                                                 4.04
     11   Prohibit development on hillsides and steep slopes.                                                           4.04
     12   Sensitive lighting requirements to protect night sky visibility.                                                4
     13   Open space protection through conservation easement.                                                          3.99
          Require all commercial development to meet strict “non-strip/non-box” or “mixed-use” development
     14                                                                                                                 3.97
          standards.
     15   Disallow chain establishments Valleywide.                                                                     3.97
     16   Keep economic activity centers in Ogden City.                                                                 3.9
     17   Connect pathways and trails throughout the Valley.                                                            3.82
     18   Create consistent architectural design standards for commercial development.                                  3.81
     19   Open space protection through land acquisition.                                                               3.78
     20   Increase boat fees, especially for large boats, at Pineview Reservoir.                                        3.65
     21   Promote the unique identity of Ogden Valley through uniform signage design.                                   3.65
     22                                                                                                                 3.62
          Place a moratorium on new development until at least 50% of existing approved development is built.
     23   Require new development to meet strict design guidelines for landscape, sidewalk, lighting, etc.              3.61
     24   Reduce housing density (downzone) in select areas.                                                            3.58
     25   Solar or other renewable energy requirements or incentives for new construction in the Valley.                3.55
          Develop a “valley use conservation fee”; assess on participants of organized recreation events and use
     26                                                                                                                 3.54
          proceeds for conservation and event infrastructure.
     27   Establish greenbelt buffers between neighborhoods.                                                            3.51
     28   Develop a valleywide infrastructure improvement plan and budget.                                              3.5
     29   Acquire agricultural lands for open space.                                                                    3.47
     30                                                                                                                 3.47
          Cap current development and redistribute in more efficient patterns (Transfer of Development Rights).
     31   Promote development in existing, already defined neighborhoods or centers.                                    3.42
          Do not allow full-scale sewer/water systems for new development; allow natural constraints and
     32                                                                                                                  3.4
          resources to control development decisions.
     33   Open space conservation funding from event fees.                                                              3.35
     34   Air quality ordinances (emission inspection, anti-idling, woodburning, etc.)                                  3.34
          Require municipal-style services (water, sewer, power) to be provided as a condition for all new
     35                                                                                                                 3.33
          developments.
     36   Focus economic development on recreational tourism.                                                           3.3
     37   Create more trails to accommodate diverse user groups (mountain biking, horseman, OHV, etc.).                 3.29
     38   Reduce development entitlement through acquisition or Purchase of Development (PDR) tools.                    3.29Continued
     39   Drinking water delivery and treatment systems Valleywide.                                                     3.28
     40   Create a Historic Preservation Master Plan for the Valley.                                                    3.27
16                                                                                                                      PLAN STUDY
     41   Pursue highway-separated multiple use paved pathway in Ogden Canyon.                                          3.26
     42   Open space protection through clustering.                                                                     3.24
32                                                                                                                3.4
     resources to control development decisions.
33   Open space conservation funding from event fees.                                                             3.35
34   Air quality ordinances (emission inspection, anti-idling, woodburning, etc.)                                 3.34
     Require municipal-style services (water, sewer, power) to be provided as a condition for all new
35                                                                                                                3.33
     developments.
36   Focus economic development on recreational tourism.                                                          3.3
37   Create more trails to accommodate diverse user groups (mountain biking, horseman, OHV, etc.).                3.29
38   Reduce development entitlement through acquisition or Purchase of Development (PDR) tools.                   3.29
39   Drinking water delivery and treatment systems Valleywide.                                                    3.28
40   Create a Historic Preservation Master Plan for the Valley.                                                   3.27
41   Pursue highway-separated multiple use paved pathway in Ogden Canyon.                                         3.26
42   Open space protection through clustering.                                                                    3.24
43   Develop comprehensive emergency services in the Valley.                                                      3.23
44   Create uniform streetscape requirements for the valley.                                                      3.19
45   Expand existing community parks in Liberty and Eden.                                                         3.18
46   Develop historic protection requirements for homes and buildings over 100 years old.                         3.18
47   Identify historic districts and produce design guidelines for compatible development.                        3.09
48   Design a valley-floor commercial plaza to enjoy music, festivals, and markets.                               3.09
49   Encourage most new development in the resort areas.                                                          3.06
50   Do not widen Ogden Canyon; focus on Trapper’s Loop.                                                          3.01
51   Open space conservation funding from sales tax increment.                                                    2.99
52   Develop a main-street commercial area in Eden.                                                               2.98
53   Cluster all foothill residential development in an overlay zone.                                             2.98
54   Cluster all new residential housing.                                                                         2.91
55                                                                                                                2.91
     To control traffic flow, install an easy-flow traffic solution (round-a-bout) at the four-way stop in Eden
56   Adopt a recreation impact fee program to fund recreation investments for residents.                          2.9
57   Improve parking and access to Pineview Reservoir.                                                            2.89
58   Valleywide sewer system.                                                                                     2.85
59   Transit systems designed to reduce future auto use.                                                          2.81
60   Greater develop the Valley’s education system, including schools.                                            2.76
61   Focus economic development on outdoor-industry companies.                                                    2.74
62   Hire a County Open Space Coordinator to manage protection in the Valley.                                     2.67
63   Focus economic development on agritourism.                                                                   2.67
64   Hire a County Trails Coordinator for trail plans and maintenance.                                            2.67
65   County-sponsored agritourism economic development program.                                                   2.6
66   Widen Ogden Canyon Road shoulder to accommodate bicycles and pedestrians                                     2.6
67   Focus economic development on local retail opportunities.                                                    2.48
68   Invest in a new park at the south end of the Valley.                                                         2.45
69   Broaden the zones where vacation rentals (renting out own home, like AirBnB.com) are allowed.                2.39
70   Invest in a comprehensive Valleywide public transit system.                                                  2.36
71   Require a mix of new residential housing that supports a variety of income levels.                           2.32
72   Gondola from Eden town to Powder Mountain.                                                                   2.18
73   Build a tunnel under North Ogden Divide.                                                                     2.14
74   Increase housing density (upzone) in select areas.                                                           2.13
75   Open space conservation funding from property tax increase.                                                  2.11
76   Build new roads to support increased demand.                                                                 2.11
77   Focus economic development on new jobs in the Valley.                                                        2.06
78   Develop more hotel and accommodation opportunities in the Valley.                                            1.98
79   Promote development on underutilized and vacant land in the Valley.                                          1.61




                                                                                                                         17
LAND USE SURVEY SUMMARY
Following the Choices Workshop, a Land Use Survey was used to help the public prioritize the land-use tools that
could be used to achieve preferred outcomes. The key question of the survey was, How might residents want to modify
future land-use outcomes for the Valley? The survey did not recommend a particular tool; the intent was for the com-
munity to establish its preferences. This evaluation exercise, in conjunction with the Choices Workshop and stakeholder
feedback, were used to develop the preferred policy direction and future Land Use Map that form the substance of
this General Plan. The survey received 59 total responses, 45 completed surveys and 14 partial surveys.

A key policy direction emerged from the Choices Workshop and in the Land Use Survey: there is a strong community
desire to manage growth in a manner that minimizes the number and impacts of new residences in the Valley, but there
is little support for a County-mandated reduction in development rights through downzoning or other similar means.
To address concerns about growth pressures and impacts without mandating a reduction in allowable development
units in the Valley, Weber County must focus on primarily voluntary means to manage growth trends. This General
Plan identifies policies and implementation tools that emphasize voluntary means for managing the impacts of future
growth in Ogden Valley.

Below is a summary of participants scores. Participants could rate each option on a scale of 1 - 5, with 5 being the
highest. Ideas in green received an average rating above 3.9, red received an average rating of below 3.4. Black was
somewhere inbetween 3.9 and 3.4. For the full 33 page survey summary, please see the appendix of this document.




18                                                                                                      PLAN STUDY
Citizen Advisory Committee

To assist in the creation of the General Plan, a Citizen Advisory Committee was formed. A group of 13 residents, busi-
ness owners and tenants, property owners, community organization, and commission were chosen by Weber County
Planning staff as representatives to serve on the Citizen Advisory Committee (CAC). The CAC is an ad hoc committee
established to advise staff and consultants on community issues during the planning process for the General Plan
Update.

A primary responsibility was to review work products, including vision statements, surveys, and goals and policies that
helped form the General Plan. They also provided effective feedback on how to gather public input and played an
active role in facilitating discussion within the community.

Participation by members appointed to the CAC is temporary and voluntary; the roles and responsibilities of its mem-
bers will terminate with County Commission Adoption of the General Plan, which is anticipated to occur in early 2016.


Advisory Committee Members:
John Loomis
Janet Muir
Debbie Kearl
Jan Fullmer
John Lewis
Paul Judd
Laura Warburton
Mayor Jim Truett
Lisa Pack
Bailey Family Representative
Rob Thomas
Jeff Burton
Commissioner James Ebert




                                                                                                                   19
Plan Elements
Land Use
The Existing Conditions Snapshot for Land Use prepared at the beginning of the planning process report-
ed the following information:

HIGHLIGHTS
• The maximum build out for dwelling units has been a moving target for Ogden Valley. There are cur-
   rently approximately 3,600 residential units.
• There is some debate on the success of TDRs/PDRs. A question has been what tools are available and
   applicable to Ogden Valley for guiding future development?
• Cluster development is generally supported, but “density bonuses” are not.
• The 2005 General Plan Recreation Element suggests that clustering could protect 30,798 acres of
   open space, while allowing for a total of 17,493 housing units.

PURPOSE AND GOALS
The Ogden Valley General Plan (OVGP) was completed in 1996 and adopted by the Weber County Com-
mission in 1996 and 1998. The 1998 General Plan consists of two vision statements and corresponding
goals:
Vision: Protect the natural beauty and natural resources of the Valley
Goal 1: Protect air quality and water resources
Goal 2: Protect open space and sensitive lands
Goal 3: Preserve wildlife and wildlife habitat

Vision: Maintain the Valley’s rural atmosphere and rural lifestyle
• Promote a sense of pride in the Valley’s history and heritage
• Require that development be compatible with the Valley’s rural character and natural setting
• Require that development and community services conform with the Valley’s natural resource capabil-
    ities
• Provide adequate emergency and medical services
• Protect agricultural land
• Recognize and respect private property rights
• Facilitate the smooth flow of traffic in and out of the Valley
• Enhance quality recreational opportunities

The 2005 General Plan Recreation Element (RE) also provides guidance for land use, addressing the sub-
ject rather heavily. This plan outlines a development analysis, issues and challenges, alternative develop-
ment scenarios, and recommended policies and implementation strategies.

WHY IT MATTERS
For over two decades, land use and development questions have been a moving target for the Ogden Val-
ley. There are currently about 3,600 dwelling units in the Valley. When the last general plan was adopted,
a build-out of 6,200 units was contemplated in the General Plan (which would nearly double the current
built environment). Later, the 2005 Recreation Element estimated a build-out of 16,000 units, and Weber
County’s most recent analysis indicates that maximum density at current zoning would result in even more,
perhaps as many as 24,000 in a timeframe of 30 years. Each of these scenarios has significant implications
for built, natural, and social environments. How do we protect the character of the Valley as development
and changing land-use patterns unfold?




20                                                                                             PLAN STUDY
OVERVIEW
As Ogden Valley adds residents, the community will need to decide how to facilitate this growth in a way
they find appropriate. In general, land use and community design can achieve many ideals: they can be
efficient and sustainable; support a multimodal transportation network; provide housing choices so that
families may age in place, minimize conflicts between incompatible uses; and integrate development with
existing and planned infrastructure.

The Valley’s “carrying capacity” in terms of traffic, water supply, and waste water treatment are all import-
ant considerations. Growth has occurred more slowly than prior planning documents have predicted, due
in part to the effect of the “great recession” on vacation and second home ownership patterns. The 1998
plan projected 6,200 units by 2018, and this was seen as a built-out condition. To help achieve this desired
result, the Ogden Valley was rezoned from one housing unit per one acre to one housing unit per three
acres. However, as a result of errors in analysis, a possible over-reliance on constraints assumptions, and
perhaps geospatial data quality, the Plan did not predict outcomes that are now considered more realistic,
with the potential for tripling or quadrupling that unit count.

Open space and the scenic beauty of Ogden Valley is a major defining feature of the Valley and are con-
sidered by many to be the Valley’s most valuable asset. The need to protect this natural and aesthetic
quality while encouraging quality resort and recreational development is clear. Current zoning, which
allows for a low-density pattern of development, is seen as a threat to the future character of the Valley.

CLUSTERING
A key challenge is protecting private property rights while preserving open space. What is the best bal-
ance between development and open-space preservation in the Valley? The RE illustrates how higher
development intensities would work through cluster zoning, which is allowable in the land use code. This
is meant to encourage development in areas suitable for development, but also to preserve open space in
exchange for higher densities within current zoning provisions. In the RE element, a 25 percent density bo-
nus is given for “assertive use of clustering”. It suggests that 17,493 housing units might be built in Ogden
Valley if intensive clustering were encouraged. The potential open space protected by clustering is 30,798
acres. According to the Zoning Density Study, there are currently 57 clustered subdivision plats recorded
in the Valley.

In the 2014 Maximum Zoning Density Study, the amount of private developable land (land with no signifi-
cant environmental or geologic sensitivity and a slope less than 30%) was analyzed for clustering potential.
Under a clustered subdivision pattern, land consumption decreased from 127K acres to about 94K acres
(Table 1).




                                                                                                          21
Table 1: Developable Private Land by Zone

                                                                                                  Net
                                        Zone                                Acreage          Developable
                                                                                             Private Land1
               Forestry Zone                            F-40                150505.70               80189.29
               Forestry Zone                            F-10                 8972.90                 8058.39
               Forestry Zone                             F-5                15985.80                12004.60
               Shoreline Zone                            S-1                 4005.56                  496.17
               Forest Valley Zone                      FV-3                 11919.97                10581.87
               Agricultural Valley Zone                AV-3                  9794.97                 8617.09
               Forest Residential Zone                 FR-1                  1129.06                  837.80
               Residential Estates Zone                RE-20                  187.44                  168.55
               Residential Estates Zone                RE-15                  690.80                  621.51
               Residential Manufactured Home
                                                     RMH-1-6                   2.19
               Zone                                                                                     1.98
               Forest Residential Zone                 FR-3                   296.98                  263.59
               Commercial Valley Resort
                                                      CVR-1                   278.74
               Recreation Zone                                                                        222.53
               Destination Recreation Resort          DRR-1                  3753.50                 3302.94
               Commercial, Valley Zone                 CV-1                    1.32                     1.18
               Commercial, Valley Zone                 CV-2                   85.85                    77.12
               Gravel Zone                                G                   12.17                    10.96
               Manufacturing Valley                    MV-1                    8.26                     7.43
               Open Space Zone                          O-1                  1895.38                 1862.34
                               Grand Total Ogden Valley Acreage:            209526.43               127325.3




     1
      Undevelopable land due to slope or other constraints (such as Huntsville Reservoir) taken out of the total private
     acreage.




22                                                                                                                     PLAN STUDY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          066
                                                                                       08 4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         068         9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                06




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ANT FLAT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WC68C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SWAN RANCH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                199
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      68B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            046
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     115




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JOHN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FRE MON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            188



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               071
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GP                                                 GLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MA                                                 EA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         US    JIM BRIDG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EZVO                                      ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RE ND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   073




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HAWK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RSO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KIT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6925                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EE K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IVAT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E                           68 25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WC72A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2275
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RFEE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6675
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DU



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CREE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WDE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6375




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6225
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               22
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       59




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SUMMIT PASS RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 31 75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IZO N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5900                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               50                            5750
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5750




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          58




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SPRING PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 F8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5400
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HWY 162




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3325
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            32




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5225                00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3100



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3350




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5100                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            35 50
 PO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         33 00
           LE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3000
                 PA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4800
                   TC
                             H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4650
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              40




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4175
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           46




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00
 350




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E
                4575                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       45                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ID
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            75                                                                                                4450
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3150




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4350                                4325
                5
         17




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S
  4300                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FAIRWAY
                    125




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3800


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4000




                    4225
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WOL F
250




                                                                                                                                                                NE BO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RIVER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ISE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3750




                 4175
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SU NR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JUNIPE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CRE EK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             00




                4100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RIV ERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        42

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LE RID
                                                                                                                                                                                DIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RETREAT




                        40 50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SUNSET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2900




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RIDGE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3925
                                                                                                                                                                                  LO
                                                                                                                                                                N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PATIO SPRIN 4650
                                                                                             475




                                                 3725
                                                                                                                                                             SO




                                                                                                                                                     L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3775




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EL
                                                                                                                                                                                     N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GS




                                                                                                                                             H IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EAG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3500




                                                                    00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    38                                     K RI
                                                                                                                                                    CK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EDGE




                                                              37                       3650                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    50
                                                                                                                    NG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DG
                                                                                                                                              JA




                                                                                                             3600 KI 0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E
                                                 225




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3750
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FOO
                                                275
                                  175




                                                                                        500




                                                                  3575                                              65
                                                                                       475


                                                                                                              575




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AN
                                                                                                                                        700




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                             600




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THILL
                                                                                                                                                       825




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PI




                                                                                                                                     35
                                                                                                                                                                   875




                                           34
                                                                                                                                                                                      95




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NE




                                                75                    3475                                                                   25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3600
                                                                                                                                                                                         0




                                                                                                                                                                            34 50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LF                                                                  GE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           F1
                                                                                            25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WO
                                                             350




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ID                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VIE




                33                                                 3350                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        K
                                                                                         34




                                                                                                                                                         3400                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KR
250




                      25                                                                                                             33                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HU




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HW                                                                    34                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                             50                                                                                                                                                                                                                NY ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     35




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             50                                                                                               EL
                                                                                                                                                                                       1000




                                                                            3325                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             26                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RN
                                                                                                                                                                          900




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N CA                                                                                                                                Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        00




                                      3275                                                                   3300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OGDE                                                    50                                                                                         16                                                                                                                                                                                             BIG
                                                      3250                                                                                                                                                                 MO                    32 50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2600




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           28




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NORTH
                 17 5




                                                                                                                                                       3250                                                    3250




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      072
                                                                                                                          3225
                                                                                                                                             750




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UN                                                                                                                                                                  28
                                                                                        500
                                       AY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            75




                                                                                                                            31                             3200                                                                            TA                                                                                                                                                               25                                                                                                                                                         ER
                            150 100




                                                                           425




                                                                                                                                                                                     1000
                                   LID




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3350                                                                                                            LL                                                                                                                                 RN
                                    0




                                                                                                             575




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1250




                                                                                                                               25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FU
                               25 0
                                 18




                                                                                                                                                                                                               1075
                                                                                                                                                  800
                                 O




                                                                                                                                                                             950
                                                                                                   525




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3300
                                                                                  450
                               H
                  100




                                                                                                                                                             3100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RIV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3090
                                                                                                      30 50                 3050                                                             3075




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                                                                                                                                                  302
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3825
                                                             30 0




                                                                                                                                                       3000                          5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JO




                                           EL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ATE
                                                                                3000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SPRING
  3275




                                                BER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CH
                                                                                                                                                                                   295 2950                                                 3000
                                                                                                                                                                       900




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        36




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NE




                                                                                                3000
                                                                                                                                         750




                                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                             TA
 150




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ER
                                                                                              2900                                                                                       2925                                              2925                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WS                                                                                                                            3050




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C




                                                                                                                                 2900                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NORDIC MEADO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RY
                                                                                                                                                                                      1025




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ER
                                                                                                                                                             850
                                                                                                                                                                          875




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LIV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             49 75




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RENS




                                           LO                                                            2850                                                                                                                                           2850




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RY




                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O
            20                                   MO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GREEN HILL                                                   E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       29 25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ABBE




                                                         ND                                                      2800                                                  2800                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   28 00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   137




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5100
                                                                                                                                                  800




                                                                                                                                                                                            1050
                                                                                         500
                  0




                                                                                                                                                                                   1000




                                                                  VIE
                15




                                                                                                                          2750                                                                                                 2750
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    27 75
                                                                                450




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5




                                                                        W
                                                                                                              600




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                    550




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      YON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         27 25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10




                                                                                                                                        2675                                                                                     2650
                                                                                                                                                              850
                              200




                                                                                                                                                                                   2650                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NO




                                                                           2650
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  B
                                                                                                                        650




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              40 00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1125
                                                      300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2625
                                                                                        500




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RD




                                                                                                        2600
                                                                                                                                                                                           ER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LE




     2700
                                                                                                                                  700




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 257
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       37 50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Y




                                                                                                                                                  25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                00
                                                                                   475




                                                                                                                                                                                      BARK
                                                                                                             600




                                                                                               2550                                                    50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          JU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         26




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SIERRA




                                      2550
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2525
       CHARLESTON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1600




                                                                                                                        24 75                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Y                                                                                                               2500                                                 2500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NC
                                                                                                                                                                 FR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VIK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12
                                                                                                                                             750
                                                                                              525




                                                                                                                                                       800




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TIO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SH
                                                                                                                                                                       UITL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EY
                                                                                                        575




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          24
                                             200




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             50
                                                                                                                           675




                                                         2350                                                                                                                                                                    2400                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EV ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MA
                                                                                                                                                                            AN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GREE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R VI
                                                                                   2300                                                                                                                                               23 25                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              75                                                                          2300
                                                             2275                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  22                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N PA
                                                                                                                                                                                D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 22 50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2250                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EW
                                                                                                    2225
                                            225 225




                                                                                       515


                                                                                                                   575




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PANO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2200
                                                                            450




                       2150                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CAUSEY               WC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5600




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               89A
                                             250




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2100                       2100                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E
                                                                                                                600




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6
                                                                                                                                                                    2100                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                H PIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3850

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BIG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5500




                                                                                               2050                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HIG
                                                                                                                                         775




  2025                                                                                                                                                              2050                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PRIVATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5700




                                      2000                                                                                                        2025
                                                                                                                                                                                            1150




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SK
                                                                                           500




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1950




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Y
                               150




                                                                                                             600




                                                                                                                                                  1925




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7800
                                                 1900                                                                                                                                                                 1925                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UL
                                                                                                  1850                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1900                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5                                                                                              1950
  1875                                                                                       1800                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WCM1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   L CR
                            150




                                                                                                                                                                       1775
                                                                                       1800
                                                                                                                                                             800




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           62




                                                                  1800                             1750                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
 200




                                                                                                                  625




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Y 39




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            19
                                        BOY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            50




                                                                                           1725




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AC
       COUNTRY
                                                                               450




                                                                                                                                                                            925
                                                                                                                            700
                                                                    400




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HW                       191




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7900
                                                                                                                                             1700
                                                                                                                                                                875




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      K CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                          16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          076
                                                                                       16 25                                                                                                                   75
                                                                                                                                     775




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1600
                                                                                                                                    725




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NY
                                                                                                                                                     1550                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C68




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ON
           1500
                                                                                         450




                                                                                                                                                    1525 1510
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6150



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                           1500                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HW




                           1475                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1450
                                                                                                                                              1450                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          74
                                          1400                                                                        1425                                   CANFIEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7275
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Y 15




                                                                                         LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  25
                                                                                                                                                                                    D
                             10 0




                                                                                                   CK
                                                                                                                                  GRAMERCY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1325
                                                                                                                                     QUINCY
                                   200




                                                                         ACCESS




                125                                                                                      WO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8




                   0                                                                                                  OD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1275
                                 150




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E
                                                                                                                                                  1275




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1225
NEW YORK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        79
                                                                                                                   1225                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A
                            1175                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IS
                                                                                                                                  925




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M
                                                                                                   VIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LA




                                                    0                 CANYON                                                                                     1200                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MO




                                                 24
                                                                                                                                                                                IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              K




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E




                                      W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               75
                                                                                                                                                                          MOUNTA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        07
                                                                                                                                              1100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SID




                                       A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                                                                   95




                                            H                1050                                  1050                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1000                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ING




                                                LE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1000                                                                                                                                                        10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E
                                                                                                                                                                       0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1100                                                                                     95                00                                                                                                                                                                                        07




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7100



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7300
                                                     N                                  980
                                                                                                                                  GRAMERCY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0
                                                                           940                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SIDE




                                                                                                                       950
                                                                                                                                              925




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   YACHT CLUB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NE
                                                                                                                                                              97 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RADFORD
                                                                                         550




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7800
                                                         EN                                                       5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VIE
                                                  RS                    875                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                                                                                                                                                                                  DILLON




                                                                                                             87                                        5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JAC
                HW




                                           LA                                                                                                     82                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OB
                                                                                       800                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KE
                    Y




                                                                                                                                                                          800                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O
                        89




                                                                                                                      750                         760                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ST                                                                                                                                               KELLEY
                                                                                                                                                                JACKSON




                                               700                                                                               675                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MIL
                                                                                              650                                                    670                          650                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GPI                                                                                                                                                                 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               STI                                                                  L
                                                                                500




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WC1
                                                                                                550                       550                                                      550                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AU
                                                                 525
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    51
                                                                                                                                        840




                                                                           475
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         50




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6A
                                                                                          450                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       400
                                                         325




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PINE
                                                                                                                                                                            425                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      500




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LOWER OAK
                                               HA




                                                                                                             NORTH
                                                                                               AVC                                                                      C
                                                 RR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8600
                                                                                                                                                                            O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5100

                                                                                                                                                                                LL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  375




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAPLE
                                                     IS VI




                                                                           DAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8650
                               DAN                                                                                                                                                IN
                                                                                                                                                                                       S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  200
                                                         LL




   SOUTHWEL L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           200                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                           EARL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7200
                                                             E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10 0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8600
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6800
  125




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8750
        125                                                                                                                                                               VITT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          100                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10 63
                                                                                                                                                       QUINCY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6700
                                                                                                      ORCHARD
                                                CHILDS CHILDS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7100
                                                                                        1ST                                                                                                               125
                                                                                                                                                                    125




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10450
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8950
                                                                                                                      COOK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     200
                                                                                                                                                                                                       SHERIDAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   YL




                                                                                          2ND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7300

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7400
                                                                              ADAMS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 300
                            PINGREE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OR




                                                         3RD                                                                                                 SHERWOOD                                     LEWIS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              325
                                                                                                                          3RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7500
                                                                                                                                                                                                3RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HWY 39




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        8600
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7600




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9200




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DOUGLAS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WCSB10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                400




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7700
                                             KIESEL




                                                                                       4TH
                                                                                                                  425                                            HARROP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7450
                                                                                                                                                                                                           HILAND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8750




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9500
                120




                                           GRANT




                                                                                                                                                                                                       5TH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OGDEN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       500




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N                15650
                                                                                                                                                                                 BRINKER




                                                                                                   5TH
                                                                                                                                                                       ECCLES




      GWEN                                                                                                                                                                                             HUDSON                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PE
                                 LINCOLN




                                                                                                    6TH 550                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OGDEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8850
                                                                               6TH                                                           INN                                                               6TH                                                                                                                                                                                                               ROAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    600                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8000
                                                                                                                                    QU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ACCE SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HISLOP
                                                                                                                                                                                            IOWA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       675




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7600
           RAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OG
                                                                                                                                                                                                        7TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8450
                                                                      OGDEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             44
                                                                                          7TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7800
                                                                                                        660




                                                                                                                                              M                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HW                      750




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             60
                                                                                                                                                   E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        POLK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WC0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9700
                                                                                                                                                       LO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y 39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SP
                                                     8TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
     830                                                                              8TH                                                                 D     Y                               8TH                                                                                                                                                                                            AD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S RO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RING
                                                                                  CHESTER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SIMORON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               800
                                 9TH                                                                                                                                   9TH                                                                                                                                                                                                  ACCES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E




                                                                                                                  9TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8700
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Y 39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6525
                                                                               CROSS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    950
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LMOR




                                                    CROSS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              QUA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6800
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WCSB0
                                                                                                                                                                                           IOWA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                CROSS                                        ST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HA     IL                                                                                                                                                     950 93




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7000
                                                                                                                                                                            10TH                                                                                                                                                                                            EN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WKS                                                                                                          89
                                                                                                                      LIBERTY
                                           CHILDS




                                                      Legend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HW
                                                                                                                                                                                                         HE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         90 0                                                                                   5
                                                                           ADAMS




                                                                                         10TH                                                                                                                                                                     E                                                                                                     D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9275
                                                             11TH                                                                                                                                               ND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8750
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7450
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1550 FIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ER
                                                                                                                                                     885




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11TH                                                                                               O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11
                                                                                                                                        865




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       915
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N                            HISLOP                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00
                                                                                                   12TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INNSBR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      VIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1200
                                                                                                                                                    1225                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8800
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RTIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MONASTERY
                                                                                                                          775




                                                                       13TH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9400
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13TH                                                                    DE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0
                                                                                                                                                                                 10




                                                                                                             Ogden Valley Boundaries
                                                                                                                                                                 1040




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            800
    14TH                                                                                                                          1350
                                                      GRANT




                                                                   14TH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A                                                                                 SWE ETW
                                                                                                                                                                                    65




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OLD TRAPPERS LOOP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UCK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SIN
                                                                                                                           LIBERTY




                                                                            14TH                                            LO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ATER
                                 15TH                                                                               FORT       RL      OLD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VIE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1650




                                                                           15TH                                                                                                                                                                                                          CA NY
                                                                                                                                                                                                          FARR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CH
                                                                    16TH                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ON                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W
                                                KIESEL




                                                      Trials                                                                                                  16TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8900
                                                                      CANYON
                                                                                                                                                                                   1165




                                                                                                                                     WOOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AR
                                       17TH                                                                                                                        1675                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         17
                       PINGREE




                                                                                                        PARK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RA
                                                         18TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L
                                                                                                             Trials
                                                                    SHUP ES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1800
                                      CHILDS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1700
                                                                                                                                                                                     HARRISON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9500
                                                      PARK                                                                                                                19TH                                          VALLE Y
                                                                                                                                                             ECCLES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          94
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FA
                                                                                                                                                         JACKSON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1950
                                                                                                                                                                                                     1275




                                                      Bike Routes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BA
                                                                                                                  20TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LC
    RUSHTON                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1850




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ON
                                                                                                                                LAINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BUCHANAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FILLMORE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CUSTER




                                                                                               21ST
                       PINGREE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ROBINS
                WALL




                                                                   ADAMS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              POLK
                                                                   OGDEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WES
                                                                                              OAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TAYLOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OLD
                                                                                                                                                                                 OAK                                                                             OAK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                                             Existing




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        08
                                                                                                                   22ND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         T RI
                                                       2250




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WC
                                                                                                                                                                     LOR IN
                                                                                                                                                                VAN BUREN
                                                                                       JEFFERSON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SWAN
                                                                                                    BIRCH




                                                                                                                                                                  ECCLES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DG
                                                                 425




                                                                                                                                              23RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BUCHANAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     POLK
                                                                                                                     LIBERTY
                                                    KIESEL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E
                                                                            WEST




                                                                                                                                                                                            IOWA




                                                                                                             Proposed                                                                                                                    CAHOON
UNION PACIFIC




                                                             24TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                TAYLOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        122
                                                                                                                 MONROE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PIERCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                           CAPITOL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WC122
                                                              25TH
                                                                                              ORCHARD




                                                      Roads
                                                                              PORTER




                                                                                                                                                                                          TYLER
                    160




                                                                                                                                                                                         IOWA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LAKE
                                                                                                                                                                                     BRINKER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TAYLOR




                                                                                                                                       26TH
                                      CHILDS




                                                                                                                LIBERTY




                                                                                                                                  BINFORD
                            LINCOLN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BINFORD
                                                                                                             Major Roads
                                                                                           27TH
 DOXEY
                                                      375




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PIERCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HILL




                                                                   DOXEY
                                                                                                                                                                             HARRISON




                                                                                                                    DOXEY MARILYN                                                                                                                                         DOXEY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FO




                                                                                                             28TH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LO
                                                                                                                                         QUINCY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          28TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OT
                                                                                                                                        FOWLER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C2
                                                                                                                                                              ECCLES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RS
                  PINGREE




                                                    KIESEL




                                                                                                      MADISON




                                                                                                                                                                                                      KERSHAW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            26
                                                                                                             Minor Roads
                                 CHILDS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HILL




                                                                                   29TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                              29TH                                                            MALAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AP
                                                                                                                                                                                                          DARLING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SN                                                                                                                                                TR
                                                                                           30TH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BA
                                                      OPEN SPACE TYPES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CIR




                        PATTERSON                                                   PATTERSON                                                PATTERSON                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SIN
                                                                                  31ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TAYLOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CL




                                                                                         31ST                                                SU       31ST                                      31ST
                                                                                                                                                LL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9
                                                       OGDEN




                                                                                     HEALY                                                         IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              17
                                                                                                                                              CH AN
                                                 WASHINGTON
                                                     KIESEL




                                                                                      32ND                                                        AT
                                                                              PORTER




                                                                                                             Open Space   Zone (O-1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     32ND
                 PINGREE




                                                                                                                   EL
                                                                                                                      AIN
                                 CHILDS




                                           33RD                                                                     33RD                                                                                                            33RD
                                                                                                             BOUGHTON                                                                       33RD
                                                                   34TH 34TH
                                                                                                             3rd  Party Conservation
                                                                                                                          34TH
                                                                                                                                     Easement




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B19
                                                                                                               FRANKLIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BAKER




                             FRANKLIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                POLK
                                                                                                                                                               VAN BUREN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ±
                             35TH                                               35TH                                                          35TH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                         LIBERTY




                                                                                                                                                                                           TYLER
                                                                                                                                                                                            IOWA




                            HARRIS
                                                                                                                                                              ECCLES




                                                                                                             Development Agreement Open Space
                                                                                                                                                             BRINKER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BAKER




                                                                      36TH
                                                              OGDEN
                                       LE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ogden Valley
                                                                                                               MAP
                                                                                                                   LE
                                                                                              MADISON
                                 DA




                                                                                                                                                                                                  37TH                  MAPLE
                                                                       37TH                                       37TH
                            ER




                                                                                                             Cluster Subdivision Open Space
                                                                                                                 BEL MAR                                                               EDVALSON
                    RIV




                                            38TH                            38TH                                      38TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  M
                                                                                                                                                                                   DIXON




                                 CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IU
                                                                                                                NORDIN




                                        IM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AD




                                               ES             39TH
                                                      PUBLIC LANDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ST
                                                                                                   MADISON




                                                     VIE                                                                        GRANDVIE W
                                 H




                                                             W                  40TH                                                                                                 3950
                                  IL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROSS
                                       LC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TAYLOR
                 PALMER




                                                                                                                                                             4050
                                                                                                                                875




                                                                                                                                        CO
                                             R




                                                                                                                                                  UN
                                                                                                                                                                                            VILLAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Open Space Map
                                                ES




                                                                                                                                                             TRY
                                                                            JEFFERSON
                 YALE




                                                                                                                  41ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BEUS



                                                                                                             Weber County
                                                      T




                                                                                                                    HILL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HILL
 30




                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SK
                                                                                                                                        950
                                                                                                                                850
                                                                           PORTER
      0




                                                                                           42ND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FERN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             YL
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ED GE




                                                                                                                                                                                    4275
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IN




                                                43                                                       4250
                                                                                                                                  900




                                                                                                             State
                                                                                                                 4350 of Utah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E



                               00                     50                                  4300
                        43
                                                                                                                                                                                                EVENT CENTER
                                                                                                                           850




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TAY LOR




                                                                                                                          4400
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              QU
                                 17 5




                    44 00                   4450                           4400
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FILLMORE




                                                                                                             4500                       85              45 25
                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                             State of Utah (SITLA)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RU
                                 300
                                 375
         45

                                 250
   0




                                                                                                   NA
20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N
                                                                                                                             4600
            75




                                                                                                                                    TA

                                                                                                                                                   00
             46




                                                                                         VI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                     OLD POST
                                                                                                                                VIS

                                                                                                                                              10




                                                                                       LA
                25




              4700 4675
                                                                                                        M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4700 MARTIN
                                                                                                             A




                                                                                                                                                             4750                                                                            ET
                                                                                                             United   States of America
          4775
                                                                                                                                                  1000
                                                                                                                D
                                      275
                                                375




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1900
                                                                                                   ED
                                                                                                                   IS




                        4800
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1500
                                                                                                                       O




                                                                                                        GE
                                                                                                                          N




                                                                                                             W   4875            LAK
                                                                                                                       OO                                         4875
                                                                               SU




           4900                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EVIEW                                             H
                                                                                                                                D                                                                                                                                                   TC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0                                                                         1                                                                             2                                                                                                                                                4                                                                                                                                        6                                                                                                                 8
                                                                                                                                                                4925
                                                                                  NS

                                                                                                    KIW
                                                350




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  QU
                                                                   ADAMS




                                                                                                                                                  GLASMANN




                                 5000                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WA
                                                                                       ET




                                                                                                                                                              5000
                                                                                                         AN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NAVAJO


                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1410




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SK
                5050
                                 240




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EC
                                                                                                              A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          YL
                                                                                                         OAK                                                                                                                                        HE
                                                                                                                                                                                 5100                                                          APAC                          AZT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IN
                         100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TAYL
                                                                              53                    BEN LOMOND                                                      5150
                                      300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                   00
         5200
Residential Development and Housing
The Existing Conditions Snapshot for Residential Development and Housing prepared at the beginning of
the planning process reported the following information:

HIGHLIGHTS
• Population growth and demographic trends influence Ogden Valley’s housing, jobs, transportation, and
   services, and vice-versa.
• Ogden Valley’s population is seeing an increase in 55+ and a decrease in <19 age cohorts.
• Household sizes are slowly, but steadily declining.
• Overall, Ogden Valley residents are wealthier than in the last decade.
• Ogden Valley residents desire a place where families can stay throughout their life stages.
• 32% of Eden and Liberty houses are second homes.
• Ogden Valley has a high vacancy rate due to second homes and recreational resort housing units.

PURPOSE AND GOALS
Demographics and housing trends can provide a guide to future development needs, issues, and opportu-
nities. The 2012-2014 Weber County Housing Assessment and Plan outlined 5 goals for the Ogden Valley:
   1. Maintain the quality of existing single family housing stock and affordable ownership opportunities.
   2. Maintain the quality of existing multi-family housing stock and affordable rental housing opportuni-
       ties.
   3. Provide housing choices in neighborhoods that will allow residents to live in the same neighborhood
       for their entire life-cycle.
   4. Update and/or put in place the necessary tools enabling the community to track the:
         • mix of existing housing stock
         • condition of existing housing stock
         • delivery of existing housing education made available to the public
         • availability of local resources, enabling single and multi-family rehabilitation and/or new con-
             struction, which facilitates access and affordability for special needs populations.
    5. Seek to monitor market data and barriers over time for all housing sectors to assure prioritization
        and implementation in keeping with moderate income housing plan compliance every two years.

WHY IT MATTERS
Demographic data is used to determine future demand for Ogden Valley in terms of land use, housing,
transportation, and recreational needs. Ogden Valley is seeing a shifting demographic profile, becoming an
area consisting of an older population with smaller household sizes. This changing demographic presents
considerations for an analysis of available housing types.

Because Ogden Valley is a Census County Division (CCD), consistent data collection presents a challenge
for an analysis of the area. By using a mix of census data and Weber County estimates have been devel-
oped to show the Valley’s demographic trends.

WHAT WE ARE HEARING
• Ogden Valley is transitioning toward a vacation area with 32% of homes currently serving as second
  homes.
• There is some tension between long-term residents and second-home owners on what the community
  should look like (second home owners want curb, gutter, and sidewalk for example).
• Ensure that Ogden Valley offers a range of housing products and types in order to give existing resi-
  dents the opportunity to raise families in place.
• Ogden Valley does not provide amenities necessary to keep young families from moving out.
• Airbnb and VRBO home rental services provide a set of challenges.




24                                                                                            PLAN STUDY
        OVERVIEW
        Ogden Valley has seen significant population growth in the last 20 years. It is slowly transitioning away
        from an agricultural community to a bedroom community and recreation destination. Between 2000
        and 2010, Ogden Valley’s population grew 12% from 5,877 to 6,604. Meanwhile, although the number of
        households has grown 17% since 2000, the average household size has been steadily declining from 3.2
        to 2.9. Similarly, the percentage of households with children under 18 has declined, while the number of
        households with those over 65 has increased. The percentage of households with individuals over 65
        went from just under 16% in 2000 to over 22% in 2010. The school district can attest to this trend, as they’ve
        reported lower enrollment numbers. All of these factors are indicative of a resort community with and
        aged workforce and young families moving out.
        Table 1: Change in Demographics

                        Household Characteristics                        2000          2010            Change
                      Population                                         5,877        6,604               12%
                      Total Households                                   1,842         2,214              20%
                      Average Household Size                             3.18          2.97               -7%
                      Family Households                                  1,525         1,810              19%
                      WIth own children under 18                         787           743                -6%
                      Owner-Occupied                                     1,630        1,888               16%


        AGE
        As the Ogden Valley has grown, its demographics have changed significantly. Age distribution of a popu-
        lation can hint at patterns of growth. The shape of the pyramid, shown below, indicates sustained growth.
        However, its pattern is more top/mid heavy than that of Weber County or Salt Lake County. This suggests
        a significant percentage of the population is over the age of 30. The very small percentage of people ages
        20 to 30 suggests a mass out-migration from the Valley, while the larger percentage of people at or above
        the 30+ threshold will provide a long term aging population. This is fairly typical of rural communities, and
        it is something to consider when planning for the future.

        In Figure 3, we see a large percentage change in the 35 to 44 cohort, with a -29% decrease. This may be
        attributed to parents of young families moving out. The 55 to 64 cohort received the most growth, with a
        rate of 94%, 65+ was next, at 55%.

Age and Figure
        Sex, Race  and Ethnicity
               2: 2012 Population by Age 2010 Population   by Age and Sex, Race and Ethnicity
                                              www.ucdp.utah.edu                                                     www.ucdp.utah.edu

                 Population
                    Age
                Weber       by 5-YearofAge
                         Distribution
                      County           EdenGroups and Sex
                                            CDP Population                        Population by 5-Year Age Groups and Sex
                                                                                 Eden
Ratio        Age        Male      Female     Total    Share     Sex Ratio
.01          Total      294        306       600         100%     0.96
.05         Under 5      18        22         40       6.7%       0.82
.03           5-9        22        32         54       9%         0.69

.06         10-14        36        29         65      10.8%       1.24
            15-19        28        27         55       9.2%       1.04
.06
            20-24        17        10         27       4.5%       1.70
.99
            25-29        7         12         19       3.2%       0.58
.08
            30-34        17        20         37       6.2%       0.85
.07
            35-39        17        16         33       5.5%       1.06
.05
            40-44        24        22         46       7.7%       1.09
.01
            45-49        18        17         35       5.8%       1.06
.01                                                                                       Source: Utah Community Data Project
            50-54        21        27         48       8%         0.78
.00         55-59        21        20         41       6.8%       1.05
.00         60-64        16        22         38       6.3%       0.73
.95         65-69        15        12         27       4.5%       1.25
.93
                                                                                                                                25
            70-74        4          5         9        1.5%       0.80
.87         75-79        5          5         10       1.7%       1.00
Table 2: Projections based on Average 10 Year Rate of Change

                                    Actual                                     Projected
                   1970     1980     1990     2000     2010    2020    2030     2040     2050     2060
 Total Housing     823      1155     1778     2699     3653    5352     7843    11493    16841 24678
 Units
 Population        2148     3294     3954     5877     6604    8822    11787 15470 21038 28106


HOUSING
The following are trends which most directly affect housing development within the Valley and the study
area over the near and mid-term. The current number of housing units in the unincorporated Ogden Valley
is estimated to be 3,600. This is approximately one-sixth of the maximum build-out potential reported in
the Ogden Valley Maximum Zoning Density Study of approximately 24,116 . The population is projected to
increase at a significant, but slower rate than estimated housing units. The rise in housing demands will
require consideration of where this growth should go and what is should ideally look like.

According to Mountain Luxury, in 2013 the median home value in Ogden Valley was $261,550. This is well
above the state average of $209,900 and the Weber County average of $174,300. Additionally, the median
single family home value for the Ogden Valley was $317,000 and condos were $162,900.
Ogden Valley’s housing inventory has a high percentage of single family units compared to condominiums
or apartments. In fact, nearly all multifamily housing types are located in the resort areas of Wolf Creek
and Powder Mountain. Considering the low number of multifamily units and the above mentioned aver-
age median price for a single family home, there may not be enough variety in housing types and prices to
encourage young families to grow through their life-cycle in the Valley.

VACANCY/RENTALS
The total housing unit growth rate from 1970 to 2010 is 45.3%, with the population growth rate being 33.6%
(see table 2 above). The difference between the two can be explained by the Valley’s high vacancy rate, as
compared to the rest of Weber County and all of Utah. This is indicative of the rising trend of recreational
and seasonal homes in the Valley. If this trend continues, there could be almost as many housing units as
permanent residents in the next 45 years. Therefore, it is important to consider housing units in conjunc-
tion with population when considering the future of the Valley. These recreational units play a key role
during peak times of the year, such as holidays and popular vacation times, as is evident when looking at
the parking demand around the lake on holiday weekends.

This brings up the rise in Airbnb and VRBO rental services in the Valley. Both websites have well over 100
possible rental options in the Valley. Although rentals are great for bringing in tourism, there are some
concerns with proper business practices. Additionally, these properties also contribute to the emerging
trend of Ogden Valley as a vacation and resort area.




26                                                                                              PLAN STUDY
Commercial and Economic Development
The Existing Conditions Snapshot for Commercial and Economic Development prepared at the beginning
of the planning process reported the following information:

HIGHLIGHTS
• Existing and future low-density residential is the Valley’s most dominant land use.
• There is concern that visitors have little opportunity to leave a positive economic impact due to the lack
   of commercial development.
• Commercial cores have been expressed as an option in the current General Plan.
• A strong desire for architectural design guidelines has been expressed for future commercial develop-
   ment.
• There are three vacant commercial spaces listed on the Weber County Economic Development Part-
   nership website. Does this fit with the demand?

WHY IT MATTERS
Ogden Valley is a developed and diverse community. Although moving towards a bedroom communi-
ty, it is the location of a major recreation hub, drawing in visitor from all over Utah and the world. It is also
becoming a vacation destination with many second homeowners and vacation rental services, such as
AirBnB and VRBO. Commercial and economic development is important to consider. The General Plan can
encourage economic growth using land use policies to retain and expand existing businesses in locations
that provide optimal benefits to the community, but also those vacationing in the area. It lays a blueprint
directing growth and redevelopment into key areas where commercial development is most needed and
will be most successful. Additionally, the General Plan can act as a tool to preserve the character of the
Valley by designating commercial architectural design standards.

WHAT WE ARE HEARING
In September and October 2014 the consultant conducted various interviews with the community, govern-
ment agencies, a variety of business owners, and other stakeholders. Below are key ideas and issues that
we heard:

Ogden Valley is home to several active transportation and outdoor recreation events, such as Xterra and
the Huntsville Marathon. These events bring in numerous people from around the state and even world,
but are limited places for them stay or spend significant money while they are here. The majority of these
visitors stay in Ogden City.

In the Wolf Creek Resort Future Development Report, a majority of the responses supported some addi-
tional commercial facilities provided by local business, but the development of these facilities should be
completed based on need and market viability.

Commercial development in clusters is generally supported.

OVERVIEW
Ogden Valley is an hour drive from Salt Lake City International Airport and a fifteen minute drive to Ogden
City. The Valley is known for its open space, mountains, and numerous recreational opportunities. The
Valley is a year-round playground, with Pineview Reservoir and numerous hiking opportunities, as well as
three ski resorts, snowmobiling, and cross county trails. Commercial and employment conditions impact
economic growth and development. They are indicative of the strength of the local economy and future
growth potential.

COMMERCIAL NODES
The 2005 General Plan Recreation Element and the 1998 General Plan outline the option to develop in
commercial “nodes” or “villages” with the intention to protect Ogden Valley’s rural character and move



                                                                                                             27
away from commercial strips along major thoroughfares. To achieve this desire, careful planning must be
accomplished to identify locations, form, and design. Currently there are pockets of commercial areas in
Huntsville and Eden. These include restaurants, gas stations, small retail, and a grocery store.
There are many questions to answer. In 2040, does the Valley envision job centers where professionals
and local services are provided, or will residents continue to rely on Ogden to provide these commerce
needs? At different population levels, specific commercial needs are supported by the local population.
What form should future commercial development take (should it be a very special Ogden Valley brand, or
should it be minimally controlled in terms of form?) How do residents feel about higher residential density
as a use that’s mixed with commercial development? Should anything be done to control chain retailers,
signage standards, etc., or are a more organic pattern of growth and design preferred?

POPULATION AND TOURISM
Ogden Valley’s population is expected to grow by nearly 50% by 2030, with an even larger increase in
housing units due to vacation properties. The current number of housing units in unincorporated Ogden
Valley is approximately 3,600. The increases in housing units and population will require consideration of
where new development should go and what infrastructure is needed to support it.

Snowbasin Resort has experienced a rate of growth which is greater than the state of Utah (spurred by the
improvements due to the Winter Olympics). In the past decade, skier visitation has grown by 3.5 times. Ac-
cording to the 2005 General Plan Recreation Element, using the inventory of facilities in Ogden Valley, the
following annual visitation numbers are reasonable, but are likely low: camping=150,000; hunting, fishing,
hiking = 100,000; snowmobiling = over 30,000; Scenic driving= over 75,000. Ogden Valley special events
bring at least another 50,000 visitors in per year. Based on these figures, Ogden Valley hosts over 1.5 mil-
lion visitors per year. With local resorts looking to expand, and the Valley population expected to double
by 2050, Ogden Valley visitation could grow significantly. This will call for expanded commercial opportu-
nities to support this new growth.

EMPLOYMENT TRENDS
Ogden Valley is moving towards becoming a bedroom community—a community where people live, but
work elsewhere. 72% of residents work within Weber County, the other 26.2% work outside of the County.
There are approximately 3,281 employees in the Ogden Valley. As you will see in the chart below, the av-
erage commute to work is 34 minutes, which suggests that although many people work within the County,
they work in the lower Valley. Therefore, it is worth consideration whether additional employment opportu-
nities are needed in the Valley to support the workforce. Additionally, 80% of the Ogden Valley workforce
drives alone, with only 11% carpooling, and almost none taking public transit. This indicates that there
might be demand for greater options and more convenient transportation options.
As a result, there appears to be a workforce able to accommodate more retail services in Ogden Val-
ley. According to the 2014 Transportation Master Plan, considering past and present trends and available
developable land, as the population grows, they estimate that will have around 5,000 employees in Ogden
Valley by 2040. Again, this population growth and growth in workforce will put demand on commercial
facilities available in Ogden Valley.

JOBS – HOUSING BALANCE
Comparing employment numbers with household data indicates whether a community is a net importer
or exporter of employment. A ratio above 1.0 suggests that a community is a net importer while a ration
below 1.0 indicates residents tend to work outside of the area. In 2010, according to Wasatch Front Re-
gional Council, there were 1,537 jobs and 3,208 households, or 0.6 jobs for every household in the Valley.
We anticipate that since 2010 the number of households has gone up, but the number of jobs has not (or
at least not as much). In general, this is not unusual for resort/recreation communities, although it is worth
considering as we plan for the future.




28                                                                                               PLAN STUDY
COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT
According to EDCU and Weber County’s Economic Development Department, three commercial spaces
are available to rent/purchase in Ogden Valley, as of October 2014. Of Ogden Valley total acreage, 13% is
zoned for commercial development. 1% is zoned for commercial development in Huntsville. According to
the 2005 Recreation Element, 19,706 acres in Ogden Valley are currently in use for commercial and public
recreation purposes.

The 1998 General Plan states that “commercial development should be balanced with residential growth
and occur in a manner that does not detract from the area’s character.” With respect to commercial devel-
opment, the following objectives were proposed:

•   Encourage commercial development within established commercial areas
•   Adopt “quality development standards” addressing location, materials, architecture, height, color, sig-
    nage, and size of commercial development
•   Rezone undeveloped commercial properties outside of the commercial cores to be compatible with
    classifications of adjacent properties.

The 2005 General Plan Recreation Element and the 1998 General Plan outline the option to develop in
commercial “nodes” with the intention to protect Ogden Valley’s rural character. These nodes are instead
of commercial strips along major thoroughfares and include the addition of resort related commercial
areas. Currently there are pockets of commercial areas in Huntsville and Eden. These include restaurants,
gas stations, small retail, and a grocery store. With Ogden City located so close to the Valley, additional
retail development hasn’t been much of a concern for Valley residents, but as the population grows and
tourism increases, there may not be enough commercial to support increased demand. Especially regard-
ing increasing tourism visits; currently, many visitors recreate in the Valley, but stay and often dine in Og-
den City.




                                                                                                           29
Zions Bank Fiscal Impact Report
The Zions Bank Public Finance Department prepared a fiscal impact analysis of Ogden Valley to compare
and analyze the revenues generated in the unincorporated areas of Ogden Valley as compared to the
expenses necessary to support municipal-type services in the area. The analysis concluded that the reve-
nues to Weber County from all sources derived in the unincorporated areas of Ogden Valley total approxi-
mately $2.5 million per year, while the expense of providing municipal-type services to the unincorporated
  COMPARISON OF REVENUE AND EXPENDITURES
Ogden Valley is approximately $2.7 million per year. The following summarizes the revenues generated
in the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley compared to the expenses necessary to support
  The following services
municipal-type   summarizes   the
                         in the               full reportinproduced
                                      For thegenerated
                                  revenues
                                area.                       the unincorporated  areas
                                                                     by Zions Bank,   ofthe
                                                                                         theappendix
                                                                                    see      Upper Ogden
                                                                                                     of this
  Valley compared to the expenses necessary to support municipal-type services in the area.
document.



     Summary

     Revenue vs Expenditure                                                                         Amount
     Total Revenues                                                                              $2,486,164
     Total Expenditures                                                                          $2,692,573


     Deficit                                                                                       -206,409
     Revenues as Percent of Expenditures                                                              92.3%




30                                                                                             PLAN STUDY
Transportation and Mobility
The Existing Conditions Snapshot for Transportation and Mobility prepared at the beginning of the plan-
ning process reported the following information:

HIGHLIGHTS
• Population growth is creating traffic congestion, necessitating improvements to existing roads and con-
   struction of new roads.
• Ogden Valley residents value a rural atmosphere with no stoplights.
• Public transit service is a challenge. Currently, the only bus service is provided by the ski resorts.
• An incomplete pedestrian and bicycle network hinders healthy lifestyles and limits mobility.
• Access roads to the Valley present challenges for emergency responders.
• The transportation network will need to balance vehicular mobility with convenient and safe walking,
   biking, or possibly bus options.

WHY IT MATTERS
Ogden Valley continues to experience population growth in addition to an increase in tourism in the sum-
mer and winter. This high use presents a challenge to the existing transportation network. The existing
transportation network and infrastructure play a large role in the identity and experience of Ogden Valley.
Within the Valley currently, there are no stoplights, no four lane roads, and only one four-way stop sign.
This is a feature that many have voiced as essential for preserving the Valley’s character into the future.
Although this desire is very evident, a well-maintained transportation system is critical for sustaining Ogden
Valley’s increased tourism and population.

PURPOSE AND GOALS
Goals for transportation identified by Valley residents include:
Implement a transportation system that protects the environment.
Connect and enhance bike and pedestrian facilities throughout the region.
Explore options for a public transit system.
Develop a safe and efficient road network.
Maintain the character of Ogden Valley when considering transportation infrastructure.

The transportation goals outlined in the draft 2014 Ogden Valley Transportation Master Plan include:
Goal 1: Plan for future improvements needed as the County develops
Goal 2: Identify important corridors for right-of-way preservation
Goal 3: Improve safety for all roadway users

OVERVIEW
Transportation planning efforts that currently exist in Ogden Valley include the 2014 Ogden Valley Trans-
portation Master Plan (TMP), 2010 Weber County Cooperative Pathways Master Plan, 2013 Ogden Valley
Trails Master Plan, and Wasatch Front Regional Council Regional Transportation Plan and Transportation
Improvement Program.

Weber Pathways has made great efforts in the past several years in improving trails and pathways for
active transportation. These trails and pathways provide recreation and transportation benefits when de-
signed and located appropriately. In May 2010, Weber County and Weber Pathways teamed to develop
the “Weber County Cooperative Pathways Master Plan” outlining goals, visions, and policies regarding ac-
tive transport within the County. Similarly, the Ogden Valley Trails Master Plan completed in 2013 focuses
exclusively on Ogden Valley and outlines 35 trail and pathway projects. It is recommended that the County
continue to work with Weber Pathways to implement the goals of these plans.

•   Wasatch Front Regional Council’s Regional Transportation Plan lists two projects in the Ogden Valley,
    these include:



                                                                                                           31
• A Park-N-Ride lot to be built near the mouth of Ogden Canyon (phase 1, 2011-2020)
• SR-39 widening through Ogden Canyon to 9500 E (phase 3, 2030-2040)
The draft 2014 Ogden Valley Transportation Master Plan identifies challenges that future transportation
development will face. The plan identifies functional classifications to help provide for future transporta-
tion needs. Each classification provides a set of requirements for infrastructure. The functional classifica-
tions include: local streets, minor collectors, rural major collectors, minor arterials, and rural arterial. These
roads form the primary system. The plan recommends that any future streets be laid out in a grid pattern
to ensure convenient access and reduce congestion. Additionally, an inventory of all signs and crosswalks
was also completed, as well as extensive traffic volume data.

The Transportation Master Plan reports that, “All county roadways are currently operating at acceptable
levels of service and most are expected to continue to do so in the future. Widening is recommended on
Highway 162 to increase capacity and prevent unacceptable conditions in the future. A new Minor Arterial
is recommended from SR-158 to 7100 East to provide an alternate route through this section of the Valley.
This will help to relieve congestion on Highway 162 and at the intersection of SR-158 and Highway 162.
Several other system improvement projects are recommended in order to create an efficient, safe, and
well-connected transportation system.”

ROADWAY SYSTEM
The Ogden Valley road network consists of a grid system in most area—though the grid system is not
possible in some areas because of physical constraints. The following are outlined in the TMP and 2005
General Plan Recreation Element as major roadways in the Valley:

Ogden Canyon Road (SR-39) serves as the primary route in and out of Ogden Valley, and is a major route
within the Valley as well. SR-39 comes out of Ogden through Ogden Canyon, then loops south of Pineview
Reservoir to Huntsville, and continues east toward Monte Cristo. SR-39 has one lane in each direction with
some turning lanes. The posted speed limit ranges from 50 to 55 mph through the Valley.
SR-158 is the only way to access Powder Mountain resort, and passes near many of the residential areas
of the Valley. SR-158 connects to SR-39 on the dam at the mouth of Ogden Canyon and continues north
along the west side of the Reservoir. There is one lane in each direction for the entire route with turn lanes
at some intersections. The posted speed limit is 30-50 mph.

Highway 162 is a County road that connects the entire Valley internally. It begins at 4100 North near the
North Ogden Divide and continues through the populated areas and around the reservoir to where it be-
come 1900 North and then 7100 East, before the intersection with SR-39 near Huntsville. Highway 162 has
one lane in each direction with some turn lanes. Highway 162 is very narrow with several residential ac-
cesses. The posted speed limit is 50 mph with lower speeds near populated areas.

Trappers Loop (SR-167) connects to Davis, Weber, and Summit counties, as well as Snowbasin Resort. The
road has 3 lanes for most of its length—two lanes uphill and one lane downhill.

North Ogden Divide (Weber County 3464) provides access to the Ogden Valley from the Liberty area on
the North end. The road is steep and narrow, which limits the capacity and pushes some drivers to Ogden
Canyon. According to the 2005 General Plan Recreation Element, in 2002 the road operated at 10.1 per-
cent of its total capacity.

ALTERNATIVE MODES OF TRANSPORTATION
Currently, public transit service is limited to the ski-resort shuttle buses. According the TMP, the County
recognizes that regularly scheduled bus service would be difficult to justify financially. Active transporta-
tion is popular in Ogden Valley. As mentioned above, Weber Pathways and others are working diligently to
implement a cohesive and connective active transportation system.

Examples of best practices for bicycle lanes are shown on the following 5 pages:


32                                                                                                  PLAN STUDY
33
34   PLAN STUDY
35
36   PLAN STUDY
37
LAND USE CONSIDERATIONS
The majority of Ogden Valley is zoned for low-density residential, with the land outside the town cores as
very low forest residential. There are some areas that allow for mixed commercial/residential uses—these
are generally located in the resort and recreation areas. Agricultural uses have declined in the Valley and
are not likely to be dominant in the future. Conversely, commercial uses are expected to increase as the
population in the Valley grows. The expected changing land use patterns are important to consider in
transportation planning.

EMPLOYMENT CONSIDERATIONS
Aggregate employment travel data was collected from the 2012 American Community Survey based on
zip code information. Based on this data, there are approximately 3,281 employees in the Ogden Valley
area. From Wasatch Front Regional Council Transit Service Areas, it is reported that there are approximate-
ly 1,537 jobs located in the Valley. Over 80% of employees in the Ogden Valley drive alone, while almost
11% carpool. Very few are able to use transit and very few walk or bike to work. 6% of employees work
at home. The average commute to work time is 34 minutes. This indicates a high number of commuters
and the need for convenient access to regional transportation corridors. (2014 Transportation Master Plan,
Hales Engineering).

Figure 1: Workforce Characteristics

              Place of Work
 Within Weber County          72.9%
 Outside Weber County         26.2%
         Commute Time to Work
 Less than 10 minutes           9%
 10 to 14 minutes               3%
 15 to 19 minutes               4%
 20 to 29 minutes               17%
 30 to 44 minutes               41%
 More than 45 minutes           26%



INCORPORATING THE DRAFT 2014 TMP INTO THE GENERAL PLAN
InterPlan prepared an August 21, 2015 Memorandum containing recommendations for incorporation of
the draft 2014 Ogden Valley Transportation Master Plan into the updated Ogden Valley General Plan. That
Memorandum is incorporated in the appendix of this document.




38                                                                                            PLAN STUDY
Utilities and Infrastructure
GENREAL PLAN WATER SUBCOMMITTEE
Early in the planning process a General Plan Water Subcommittee was formed to bring together the water
and sewer service providers in Ogden Valley to summarize the best available information on water quantity
and quality, including trends, and help produce and review collaborative recommendations for water-re-
lated planning in the Valley, including governance, sustainable use, and infrastructure. The Water Subcom-
mittee held two meetings, and the summary notes of those meetings are included in the appendix of this
document.

WATER QUANTITY
A number of Ogden Valley residents and stakeholders have expressed doubt that there is sufficient culi-
nary water available in Ogden Valley to meet future growth demands. There is limited reliable data avail-
able on the quantity of water available for culinary uses in Ogden Valley. It is reported that some shallow
wells are going dry, although the specific reasons are not known. Huntsville and other water providers
have reported difficulty in securing supplemental sources of water. Currently, Huntsville relies on the
spring near the Trappist Monastery, and has difficulty managing peak demand. The Water Subcommittee
identified three main components related to water quantity in Ogden Valley; the number of water rights
held for uses within the Valley (“paper” water), the amount of water physically present in the Valley (“wet”
water), and the accessibility of the water that is present (the success of groundwater wells in the Valley).

WATER RIGHTS
Under Utah water law, water is appropriated by water users as approved by the Utah State Engineer. This
results in virtual “ownership” of the waters of the State by the appropriators, subject to statutes and rules
governing its use. The “ownership” of water is referred to as a “water right”, and may be represented by a
deed, a certificate of appropriation, a share of stock in an irrigation company, or other means. Ownership
of a water right entitles the owner to take water from an approved surface or underground water source (a
“point of diversion”) and put it to a “beneficial use” such as irrigation or culinary use. Water rights are limited
by the quantity of water that can be taken, the point of diversion from which they can be taken, and fre-
quently, in the case of irrigation water, the time at which water can be taken.

The consensus of the Water Subcommittee is that there are water rights in Ogden Valley sufficient to divert
and use over 30,000 acre feet of water per year. A typical residence uses between ½ and 1 acre foot of
water per year, so there appears to be sufficient “paper” water in the Valley to support the maximum antici-
pated growth. However, most of this water is being drawn from surface sources for agricultural uses and is
not suitable for culinary purposes

“WET” WATER
Pineview reservoir holds approximately 110,000 acre feet of water when full, and the average annual pre-
cipitation for the Weber River Basin is 26 inches, the wettest river basin in the state. Water in Ogden Valley
is present and moves both on the surface, in rivers and streams, and underground through groundwater
aquifers. Virtually all of the culinary water supply in Ogden Valley is groundwater, taken from wells and
springs. The availability of groundwater from wells and springs depends on the geology of the area. The
geology of Ogden Valley is such that many culinary water wells are subject to low productivity and rela-
tively large drawdowns of the water surface, making them incapable of producing large volumes of water.
While the science of developing groundwater wells is quite well understood, the actual quantity and qual-
ity of the water a new well will produce is not certain until the well has been drilled, completed and pump
tested. This means that ownership of a water right (“paper”) for a certain quantity of water in an irrigation
ditch, may not result in the production of an equivalent quantity of useable culinary water (“wet”) from a
new well.




                                                                                                                39
The overall water “budget” for Ogden Valley is not well understood, and the dynamics and relationship
between groundwater and surface water are important to understand in order to determine the physical
locations and quantities of culinary-quality groundwater available in the Valley. A hydrogeologic study by
the Utah Geological Survey is now underway to provide information to help answer these key water avail-
ability questions. The study has a projected timeline of July 1, 2015 to June 30, 2017.

WATER QUALITY
The general consensus among water experts and water providers in Ogden Valley is that current ground-
water water quality is excellent. Nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations in groundwater in some areas
are somewhat high due, it is thought, to septic system effluents and lawn fertilizing. The primary depen-
dence on septic drainfields for sewer disposal does not seem to be adversely affecting water quality in
most areas of Ogden Valley. However, there is concern that more development could adversely affect
surface and groundwater quality.

WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT
Many Ogden Valley residents have expressed concern that continued growth in the Valley could exacer-
bate the currently periodic culinary water supply interruptions, and that proliferation of individual septic
drainfield systems could adversely affect surface and ground water quality. For the most part, culinary
water, waste water, and stormwater infrastructure and services are provided by individuals and private
entities. As documented in the 2014 Ogden Valley Maximum Zoning Density Study, Weber County has no
regulatory role in managing the provision of these services, and there currently exists no Valley-wide au-
thority that could oversee coordinated planning for and management of these services, nor is there cur-
rently a central clearinghouse for information exchange that could facilitate better forecasting of demand
and planning for the provision of services as development in the Valley continues

The 2005 Weber County General Plan Recreation Element suggests that the County should encourage the
development of limited capacity sewage treatment systems in conjunction with development in identified
“village” and resort areas. From the 2005 Recreation Element:

     “Weber County would encourage development of limited capacity sewer systems to serve the
     projected demand for each proposed village area. The investment reduces start-up capital costs
     required by developers. Sewer systems are limited to within a reasonable geographic area for
     each village development to reduce sewer pipe miles and reduce density speculation between
     villages. New home builders in villages would pay a sewer impact fee based on a cost per acre
     rather than a cost per unit. The total sewer fee is then divided by the total units that are built in the
     village development. This encourages more density to be transferred / clustered into more de-
     velopments, and potentially reduces the cost of sewer services per unit. Impact fees apply only
     when building permits are issued to reduce the up-front costs to the developer. Residents and
     land owners in the non-village areas could pay some tax to build the sewer system to keep de-
     velopment costs from escalating too high. The residents understand that this investment into the
     sewer system preserves land as development occurs in smaller areas.”




40                                                                                                  PLAN STUDY
Parks and Recreation
The Existing Conditions Snapshot for Parks and Recreation prepared at the beginning of the planning pro-
cess reported the following information:

WHY IT MATTERS
The population along the Wasatch Front and in Ogden Valley is expected to nearly double by 2050, ac-
cording to current growth projections. Tourism will also be a major factor in Ogden Valley. As the ski re-
sorts continue to develop and increase in capacity, additional skier days are also anticipated. This growth
will result in, and is already showing signs of, pressure on the rural lifestyle and amenities the Valley enjoys.
Without appropriate standards, development may cut off access to some of the open space, public lands
and recreational opportunities in the Valley. Additionally, to maintain the current level or a greater level of
service, additional recreation infrastructure may be needed.

WHAT WE ARE HEARING
In September and October 2014 the consultant conducted various interviews with the community, govern-
ment agencies, a variety of business owners, and other stakeholders. Below are key ideas and issues that
we heard:
                                         Table 4: Recreation Facilities Projected Estimated Demand
•   Current zoning is seen as the
    greatest threat to open space           Need                   Need                2005          2030      Existing   GEM 2030
    preservation.                          Category                                 (population   (populatio              Committee
                                                                                      based)       n based)
•   We need to figure out a way to        Sports Fields
    balance open space preserva-                          Soccer/multiuse               5             9           5           9
    tion with private property rights.                    Baseball                      3             6           6           6
                                          Courts
•   Weber Pathways is wonderful,                          Tennis                        6             9           1          10
    but still needs to be more con-                       Basketball                    5             9           3           8
    nected throughout the Valley.                         Volleyball                    1             2           1           2
                                          Outdoor
•   Some trail conflicts exist be-                        Small Skate Park (7000        1             2           0           1
    tween mountain bikers, eques-                         sq ft)
                                                          Full Size Skate Park          0             0           0           0
    trian uses, and pedestrians.
                                                          BMX Track                     1             2           0           0
•   Develop future recreation op-                         Paved Trail (mi)              6            11           4          11
    portunities on private lands to                       Dirt Trail (mi)              12.6          22          80+       150 est.
    avoid negative impacts to the                         Fishing Shorelines            2            2.9         19+         19+
                                                          Boat Ramps                    1             1           5           5
    natural environment on public         Leisure
    land.                                                 Playground                     1            2           4           4
                                                          Family Picnic                 34           57          50          70
•   “Do not kill the goose that laid
                                                          Family Picnic Pavilion                                  2           9
    the golden egg” is an expres-                         Area
    sion we heard commonly in                             Group Picnic                   2            4           5          10
                                                          Park Bench                    42           70           7          90
    reference to protecting open          Other
    space.                                                Swimming Pool                 1             1           0           1
                                                          Ice Hockey Rink               1             1           0           0
                                                          Ice Skating Rink                                        0           1
                                                          Outdoor Event Venue           3             4           4           4
                                                          Indoor Equestrian Arena                                 0           1
                                                          Visitor Center                                          0           1
                                                          Community Recreation                                    0           1
                                                          Facility
                                                          Valley History Museum                                   0           1




                                                                                                                                      41
OVERVIEW
Trails and recreation amenities are a huge part of the current landscape in Ogden Valley. Many of these
recreation opportunities are found at the Valley’s 2 regional parks, 3 community parks, and at the 2
schools—Valley Elementary and Snowcrest Junior High. Additionally, there are 4 resorts, 17 private camps,
9 Forest Service camps, 2 regional parks, 3 community parks, 3 major boat ramps, a dozen beaches, miles
of trails, and more (GEM Parks and Recreation Recommendation, 2009).

RECREATION NEED
The 2005 Ogden Valley General Plan Recreation Element (RE) outlines the future growth scenario for the
Valley to maintain adequate recreation facilities and level of service. The RE determined that based on
Small Community Recreation Facility Land Standards developed by the State of Colorado, there are a
number of additional facilities needed to meet existing demand in Ogden Valley. Table 1 provides a sum-
mary of the additional facilities needed, based on a population of 5,400 residents. After the 2005 RE, the
GEM Committee produced the 2009 GEM Parks and Recreation Recommendation. Their plan recognized
the importance of the RE, but made additional recommendations for growth management and outlined
several goals for resorts, public facilities, community facilities, and tourism. They followed the same pro-
jection model as the RE, but modified it based on their own knowledge and estimates (see table 1).
To meet the needs of current and future residents of Ogden Valley for recreational facilities by the year

Table 2: Developed Recreation Site Capacity

     Developed Recreation Sites      Number of Sites         Persons at One Time Capacity (PAOT)
 Campgrounds                                13                               1,935
 Picnic Areas                                3                               1,190
 Interpretive/Observation                    2                                 70
 Boat Launch/Swim Area                       3                                758
 Trailheads                                 10                                640
 Angler Parker                               2                                120
 Total                                      33                               4,713

2030, additional park land will have to be acquired. The additional land could be a new park, added to the
communities’ existing parks, or a combination of the two. According to the RE, to meet the 2005 need at
Huntsville Park an additional 3.7 acres would need to be acquired. Valley Elementary would need an ad-
ditional .7 acres, Eden Park would need an additional 9.4 acres, and Liberty Park would need an additional
12.6 acres.

To meet the needs of current and future residents of Ogden Valley for recreational facilities by the year
2030, additional park land will have to be acquired. The additional land could be a new park, added to the
communities’ existing parks, or a combination of the two. According to the RE, to meet the 2005 need at
Huntsville Park an additional 3.7 acres would need to be acquired. Valley Elementary would need an ad-
ditional .7 acres, Eden Park would need an additional 9.4 acres, and Liberty Park would need an additional
12.6 acres.

The Wasatch–Cache National Forest (WCNF) supports summer and winter activities, including camping,
scenic driving, hiking, biking, boating, swimming, bird watching, hunting, fishing, snowmobiling, cross-coun-
try skiing, etc. Most of the developed recreation sites are either at Pineview Reservoir, Causey Reservoir,
or along the Ogden River. Undeveloped recreation occurs along most of the paved and natural surface
roads in the Valley. The developed recreation sites and their capacity from the 2005 RE are shown in table.
2.



42                                                                                             PLAN STUDY
TRAILS AND PATHWAYS
Ogden Valley has an extensive trail network, with over 118 miles of existing and 251 miles of planned trails,
but as trails become more heavily used by pedestrians, cyclists and horseback riders, it’s inevitable that
conflicts will arise. Additionally, open space preservation is a value that has been expressed as a high pri-
ority, so additional trails could be explored as a tool to limit back country/open space degradation.
The Ogden Valley Pathway Master Plan (PMP) was completed in 2013. The plan identifies a network of
non-motorized pathways in the Valley that will facilitate safe travel and identify access to water, wilderness,
historic trails, and open space that should be preserved. The plan provides two different types of path-
ways and 35 proposed pathways of these types:

1.        A Valley-wide pathway and trails network (available to view in the PMP).
2.        Pathways that connect individual neighborhoods or subdivisions to the network.

The pathways described below constitute a Valley wide network that reflects the results of the public
planning process. The alignments shown on the map are conceptual, and exact locations will be deter-
mined only after landowner negotiations and fieldwork are completed. The map is intended for the use of
trail planners, County officials and developers. It should not be used by the general public as a trail map.

Certain pathways are proposed for immediate development and noted by an asterisk (*). They were chosen
to satisfy present demand, to provide significant safety benefits, or because they depend on corridors that
may soon become unavailable. They will be bike paths and unpaved trails; because workshop results sug-
gested that most Valley residents are currently more interested in separate pathways than in bike lanes. Of
course, actual construction will depend on the availability of funds, the route planning process, and prop-
erty ownership status. No trails are proposed for private property without a landowner’s consent.

     1. Old Trappers Loop Road. * This historic road, representing a route used by the early fur trappers,
     should be kept open to the public for non-motorized use, with special access granted to neighboring
     landowners, and a trailhead developed at an appropriate location at the north end.

     2. Wheeler Creek—Trappers Loop Trail. A trail should be created to connect the Forest Service trails in
     the Wheeler Creek complex with the top (south) end of the Old Trappers Loop Road. The trail would
     be constructed in cooperation with the Forest Service and the private landowner in the area and would
     include a trailhead on the Trappers Loop Highway.

     3. Pineview Loop Pathway. * This pathway will form a complete loop around Pineview Reservoir, con-
     necting with the Pineview West Trail. The exact route has not yet been determined and is suggested
     only in a generalized fashion on the map. Parts of it will parallel the highway, while other parts will run
     along the shore. Much of the route will lie on land under the jurisdiction of the Forest Service, which will
     probably be the lead agency for much of the pathway planning and construction.

     4. Ogden Canyon Pathway. Ogden Canyon is probably the most dangerous road in the County for bi-
     cyclists and pedestrians, and the need for a safe alternative is obvious. It is suggested that a pathway
     separate from the road be built on existing and former rights-of-way, with the goal of creating a prac-
     tical, beautiful, and usable pathway route while respecting the privacy and other concerns of private
     landowners.

     5. Radford Hills Trail. * This trail is proposed to connect the Pineview West Trail with the Skyline Trail,
     with a trailhead to be considered on Highway 158. The developer of Radford Hills has already expressed
     enthusiasm for the trail, but Forest Service cooperation will be required to complete the connection.

     6. Grove Trail. This trail is meant to form a connection between Nordic Valley and the Pineview West
     Trail. Its exact route will need to be determined according to local terrain and property ownership.



                                                                                                                43
 7. Pole Canyon Trail. This trail would connect Nordic Valley to the Skyline Trail by means of the existing
 path in the Pole Canyon area or a similar route. It should be designed in coordination with the develop-
 ment plans of the Nordic Valley resort.

 8. Nordic Valley Pathway. This pathway would connect Nordic Valley to the pathway network in the val-
 ley, providing a safe access route as an alternative to the highways.

 9. Western North Fork Pathway. This pathway would serve the western side of northern Ogden Valley
 and connect Nordic Valley to North Fork Park. An important component would be a spur to the Pioneer
 Trail over North Ogden Divide, with a trailhead at the east end of the Pioneer Trail.

 10. North Fork/Sheep Creek Pathway. * This pathway would run from North Fork Park down through Lib-
 erty to Eden, where it would connect with the Eden Trail. It is intended as an alternative to the increas-
 ingly busy highways and would ideally run near the North Fork River or near Sheep Creek.

 11. Avon—Liberty Road. This unpaved road is currently open to motorized vehicles in the summer but is
 closed in the winter. If a new all weather highway is constructed to Cache Valley, it is suggested that the
 old road be designated for pathway use.

 12. Sheep Creek—Wolf Creek Trail. * This trail, which is to be left unpaved to accommodate equestrian
 use, is meant to connect the Sheep Creek development with the Wolf Creek resort. Planning for this
 trail must occur soon, in conjunction with the master plans for the development that is proceeding in
 both areas.

 13. Powder Mountain—Wolf Creek Trail. This trail, not currently a priority, may with increasing activity at
 Powder Mountain gain importance as a non-motorized alternative to the Powder Mountain highway.

 14. Wolf Creek Pathway. * This pathway is needed to provide Wolf Creek residents and visitors with a
 safe way to reach the shops in Eden without having to use their cars. It would ideally be built in a sepa-
 rate corridor, but it is tentatively planned for the highway right-of-way for the sake of convenience.

 15. East Eden Pathway. * This pathway would connect the Eden Trail with the Pineview Loop Pathway
 and the Middle Fork area. It is intended to help complete the continuity of the Valley wide pathway net-
 work and provide residents and visitors with a safe and convenient connection to the shops and other
 attractions in the Eden area.

 16. Middle Fork Pathway. * The purpose of this pathway is to connect the existing Middle Fork trailhead
 area to the reservoir and the Pineview Loop Pathway. The exact route has not been determined, but it
 may follow a stream course, roadway, or other corridor.

 17. Ogden Valley Canal Pathway. * This pathway would follow the Ogden Valley Canal, either on its banks
 or generally running parallel to it on an alignment respectful of landowner concerns. It will form a very
 important component in the pathway network connecting the Valley from northwest to southeast.

 18. Power Line Trail Connection. This trail extension will connect the existing Power Line Trail with the
 Wolf Creek development.

 19. Wolf Creek—Middle Fork Trail. * This trail, popular with equestrians, would connect the trailhead be-
 ing proposed at the Wolf Creek resort with the Middle Fork trail complex. Like other trails in the Wildlife
 Management Area, it would be closed in the winter, with a gate near the eastern end of the Wolf Creek
 developed area.



44                                                                                               PLAN STUDY
20. Geertsen Canyon Trail Connection. This extension of the north branch of the Geertsen Canyon Trail
would connect to the trail network on top of the mountain.

21. La Plata Ridge Road. This trail would provide access from Powder Mountain to the mountainous ar-
eas on the east.

22. La Plata Road and Trail. The old ridge top road would be extended southward as a trail connecting to
the Geertsen Canyon—Shupe Canyon loop.

23. Northern Connection Trail. This trail, whose exact route is yet to be determined, would provide a trail
connection from the La Plata area to Beaver Creek and the eastern portions of the County.

24. South Fork—Beaver Creek Pathway. This pathway would parallel Highway 39, either in the existing
right-of-way or in a separate corridor, or a combination of both, to provide safe non-motorized access to
the South Fork campgrounds, the Causey area, and the lower part of Monte Cristo.

25. Pine Creek Road. This trail, to be designated in consultation with the private landowners in the area,
would connect Brown’s Hole to the South Fork—Beaver Creek Pathway.

26. Causey Trail. This trail would provide a safe connection from the South Fork—Beaver Creek Pathway
to Causey Reservoir.

27. Skull Crack Canyon Road. This trail would form part of a grand loop in the southeastern part of the
County and would be opened in cooperation with the private landowners in the area.

28. South Ridgeline Trail. A continuation of the trail loop as described under “Skull Crack Canyon Road.”

29. Bennett Creek Loop Trail. This loop, which circles from the Monastery area to South Fork, already
sees some trail use and an official designation should be negotiated with local landowners.

30. South Fork Pathway. This pathway would extend east and west through the South Fork area as a
safe alternative to the busy stretch of Highway 39. Ideally, it would be located in a separate corridor, but
it may be built in an existing road right- of-way.

31. East Huntsville Pathway. This pathway would branch off the South Fork Pathway to provide a more
direct connection to parts of Huntsville.

32. South Fork—Monastery Pathway. Another short connecting link, this pathway would help complete a
safe network of pathways in the South Fork area.

33. South Bench Canal Pathway. * This pathway would follow the South Bench Canal, running from the
Monastery area west to the Old Trappers Loop Road and the Jefferson Hunt Campground area. It could
be built in conjunction with alterations that have been proposed for the canal.

34. North Fork Park Pathways. Pathways within North Fork Park will be identified as part of the North
Fork Park Master Plan. Connections will be made to adjoining trails. There are seasonal trails in North
Fork Park that are temporary in nature and are established during wintertime.

35. Weber Memorial Park Pathways. Pathways within Weber Memorial Park will be identified as part of
the Weber Memorial Park Master Plan. Connections will be made to adjoining trails.




                                                                                                          45
Appendices
A. Glossary of Terms                      47
B. Vision Document                        52
C.. Big Ideas Survey Summary              68
D. Land Use Survey Summary                120
E. Zions Bank Fiscal Impact Report        154
F. Water Subcommittee Meeting Summaries   166
G. Interplan Transportation Memorandum    186




46                                              PLAN STUDY
   Appendix A
Glossary of Terms




                    47
Accessory Dwelling Unit (AKA: ADU)
Accessory dwelling unit means a small, secondary leaseable housing unit on a lot with a single-family
dwelling. Accessory dwellings are generally limited in size. They can be attached to the primary dwelling or not
attached. An accessory dwelling may also be located above a garage that is either attached to the primary
dwelling or free-standing.

Active Transportation
Any self-propelled, human-powered mode of transportation, such as walking or bicycling.

Active Recreation
Recreational activities that require the use of organized play areas, such as playing fields, swimming pools,
and basketball courts. Contrasted to “passive recreation” which does not require the use of such areas.

Amendment
A formal County Commission change or revision to the General Plan, including either the Plan’s text or its
maps.

Bicycle Facilities (AKA: Bike Facilities, Bicycle/Bike Infrastructure, Bicycle/Bike Network)
A general term denoting improvements and provisions made by public agencies to accommodate or en-
courage bicycling, including parking facilities, mapping of all bikeways, and shared roadways not specifically
designated for bicycle use.

Buildout
The point at which all land eligible for development under the General Plan has been developed to its maxi-
mum allowed level.

Conservation Easements
A Conservation Easement is a legally binding agreement made voluntarily between a landowner (public or
private) and a qualifying organization (also public or private, the owner of the Conservation Easement), in
which permanent limits are placed on a property’s use and development. A Conservation Easement is an
encumbrance on the land, recorded in the local property records, and is binding on all current and future
owners of the land. The organization that owns the Conservation Easement is responsible for ensuring that
the uses of the land and other activities comply with the terms of the Conservation Easement. Conservation
easements are intended to limit land uses to protect it from development that would otherwise be allow-
able under existing zoning entitlements. Land owners may receive income, estate, and/or property tax
benefits from the creation of the Conservation Easement, and the land remains in private ownership.

 Cluster Development (AKA: Cluster(s), Clustering, Cluster Subdivision)
The main objective of Cluster Development is to allow residential, or even commercial, development while
still protecting the area’s environmental features, allowing for more open space, and protecting farmland
and the character of rural communities. Cluster developments differ from traditional developments in sev-
eral ways. Cluster developments usually site homes on smaller lots and there is less emphasis on minimum
lot size. However, the total number of homes, or density, on a given acreage does not necessarily increase
over that allowed in a traditional subdivision design. The same number of homes are clustered on a smaller
portion of the total available land. The remaining land, which would have been allocated to individual home
sites, is used as protected open space and shared by the residents of the subdivision and possibly the en-
tire community.




48                                                                                                  PLAN
Density
In the context of planning, density is the amount of development within a given area. As part of a long-
range planning process, stakeholders often discuss the most desirable densities for different areas of their
communities. When referring to density for residential areas, it is usually expressed in dwelling units per
acre (du/acre). Nonresidential density is most often calculated as a measurement of floor area ratio (FAR).
The American Planning Association defines FAR as the total floor area of all buildings or structures on a
zoning lot divided by the total square footage of said lot. The maximum allowable FAR is represented as a
number (e.g., 0.20, 0.50, or 3.0).

Density Bonus (AKA: Bonus Density, Bonuses)
A density bonus is an incentive-based tool that permits developers to increase the maximum allowable
development on a property in exchange for helping the community achieve public policy goals. Increasing
development density may allow for increases in developed nonresidential square footage or increases in
the number of developed residential units. This tool works best in areas where growth pressures are strong
and land availability limited or when incentives for attaining the goals outweigh alternative development
options. A density bonus is commonly used to promote conservation or improvement of natural resources
and open space. A community may allow a developer to build more units than is permitted in an area in ex-
change for permanently protecting green spaces or by making environmental improvements such as with
landscaping or developing a nature trail in a project area.

Donations
When a landowner transfers agricultural or open space land or the rights to develop such land to a gov-
ernmental entity, a land trust, or land conservation organization in the form of a charitable gift. This tool
is private and completely voluntary. It provides long-term agricultural land protection, tax benefits may
accrue to donor, and a possible increase in adjoining property values. Disadvantages include maintenance
and organizational costs to manage the property by the recipient organization.

Downzoning
Downzoning is when the zoning is changed to reduce maximum density or limit land uses. This tool can be
used as a way to preserve neighborhood character and enhance environmental protection. It may create
non-conforming uses and possible loss in property value.

Dwelling Unit
The term “dwelling unit” means any building or portion thereof that contains living facilities, including pro-
visions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation for not more than one family.

Entitlement
Entitlements are legal rights granted by a local governing agency, generally through zoning, to allow iden-
tified uses to occur on a parcel of property. Entitlements describe the types and intensity of uses allowed,
and generally establish dimensional requirements for structures, such as allowable heights and setbacks.
Land entitlements are the foundation of property use and development.

Estate Subdivision
Is a voluntary development pattern that reduces total overall development density by containing larger
minimum lot sizes than otherwise allowed by the zone in exchange for relief from typical subdivision stan-
dards (i.e. reduced infrastructure requirements).

Gateway
A point along a roadway at which a motorist or pedestrian gains a sense of having entered the Valley or a
particular part of the Valley. This impression can be imparted through such things as signs, monuments,
landscaping, a change in development character, or a natural feature such as a creek.




                                                                                                           49
Land Use Code (AKA: County Code, Land Use Ordinance(s), Zoning Ordinance(s), Ordinance(s))
A set of land use regulations enacted by the County to create zones that permit certain land uses and
prohibit others. Land uses in each zone are regulated according to type, lot size or density, height, and, in
some zones, the coverage of buildings.

Mixed Use
A development type in which various uses, such as office, retail, and residential, are combined in the same
building or within separate buildings on the same site or on nearby sites.

Mobility
The ability to move from one place to another, or to transport goods from one place to another.

Moderate-Income Housing
Moderate-income housing is a housing unit that households earning 80 percent of the area median
income (AMI) can afford.


Planned Residential Unit Development (AKA: PRUD)
A Planned Residential Unit Development (PRUD) is a development which the regulations of the zone, in
which the development is situated, are waived to allow flexibility and initiative in site, building design and
location in accordance with an approval plan and imposed general requirements. PRUDs are intended to
allow for diversification in the relationship of various uses and structures.

Purchase of Development Rights (AKA: PDR)
The Purchase of Development Rights (PDR) is a transaction in which a willing landowner voluntarily con-
veys development entitlements to another party, thereby agreeing to limit the use of the property. Cre-
ation of a Conservation Easement is a common method for the purchase of development rights, generally
resulting in the retirement and non-use of the purchased rights. Another method of PDR is the acquisition
of development rights for relocation and use on another parcel of property, also called “Transfer of Devel-
opment Rights” (TDR). TDR is only possible if allowed by the jurisdictional local government.

Quality of Life
The personal perception of the physical, economic, and emotional well-being that exists in the community.

Streetscape
 Pedestrian and landscape improvements in the right-of-way, generally occurring between the curb and
the right-of-way line. Streetscape generally includes sidewalks, street trees, pedestrian lighting, fencing,
furnishings, and landscaped areas, including medians and irrigation.

Transfer Of Development Rights (AKA: TDR)
Means a right to develop and use land that originates by an ordinance that authorizes a land owner in
a designated sending zone to transfer land use rights from a designated sending zone to a designated
receiving zone. Transfer of Development Rights is a tool that establishes areas within a community, which
define areas for preservation (sending areas), and areas for more growth (receiving areas). Sending areas
can be areas of agricultural land, open space, historic properties or any other properties that are important
to the community. Receiving areas are areas that the community has designated as appropriate for devel-
opment. The advantages of TDRs are that they can permanently protect land from development pressure,
the landowner is reimbursed for not developing their land, local government can target locations effectively,
 it utilizes free market mechanisms, and the land remains in private ownership and on the tax roll.

Unplatted
Platted property is described by a Lot and Block, which refers to a recorded subdivision, or plat. Unplatted
property refers to land that has not been platted or plotted. It is simply defined by the “metes and bounds”
description (such as 42ºN12’3”E 200 feet; then 65ºN0’0”E 1000 feet).

50                                                                                                PLAN STUDY
Walkable (AKA: Walkability)
An area designed and constructed in such a way to provide and encourage pleasant, easy and efficient
pedestrian movement. Features of a walkable neighborhood may include: sidewalks separated from auto
traffic by a planted buffer; continuous sidewalks; safe and well-marked street crossings; short blocks and/
or mid-block pedestrian connections; street trees and pleasant streetscapes; windows oriented to the
street; a sense of safety; and destinations (parks; shops; gathering places; schools; places of worship) with-
in walking distance.

Zoning Map
The Map that depicts the division of the Valley into zones in which different uses are allowed and different
building and lot size restrictions apply. The zoning map is regulatory in nature and applies to currently
allowed uses; it should not be confused with the Future Land Use Map, which guides desired future land
uses.




                                                                                                           51
        Appendix B
     Vision Document




52                     PLAN STUDY
OGDEN VALLEY
G E N E R A L   P L A N

     VISION DOCUMENT



WEBER COUNTY
February 2015


                          53
                                                                                                                FONT
                                                                                                                RALEW


                                                                                                                CO LO R S C H




                                   OGDEN VALLEY
                                   B EA
                                   G            P LR
                                      N ECR AKL G       P DN
                                                   A NOUU  A TD
                                                              E

 The abundant open space, small town feel, proximity to Ogden City’s services, and diverse recreational
 opportunities are a few of the things that make Ogden Valley one of Utah’s most sought after places for
 families, retirees, and visitors to play and live. This desirability has resulted in substantial growth over the last
 decade and a half. With development and population increasing every year, and considering that Utah is the
 second most aird state, Ogden Valley needs to anticipate its direction and respond to the pressures that will
 shape change. The Vision and General Plan provide a community-laid foundation for that future.

 The General Plan Update will serve as a blueprint for future land use and investment decisions in Ogden Valley.
 It establishes broadly-approved citizen guidance for the County’s Planning Division, County departments and
 staff, the Planning Commission, County Commission, civic leaders, stakeholders, and residents. Most decisions
 and investments in a community are made in increments and phases. To ensure an excellent outcome, these
 incremental decisions need to be coordinated with a long-term plan and vision.

 Presently, Ogden Valley operates under the guidance of several different planning documents, and there are
 no recent or truly comprehensive planning instruments that can be used to support the complex decisions
 that will be made in coming years. Growth has occurred, and broader community values and goals have
 changed since the last major planning efforts in 1998 and 2005. While portions of the 1998 General Plan
 and 2005 Recreation Element are still relevant today, these documents require a hard look. The General
 Plan Update will focus on: adjusting demographic baselines and the community vision; integrating new
 land use and transportation details; and framing these planning features to achieve fiscally, socially, and
 environmentally responsible land uses.




 OGDEN VALLEY GENERAL PLAN - VISION DOCUMENT


54                                                                                                    PLAN STUDY
Image accessed from greatrideswest.com

                                     3

                                55
GENERAL PLAN OVERVIEW

The Plan will include guidance on how to make decisions on public and private land development
proposals, expenditure of public funds, financing options, future regulations, and cooperative efforts
with other agencies. As an adopted County document, decision makers will refer to the General Plan
to inform the budget and timing for capital improvements and to prepare zoning and subdivision
regulations. Residents, businesses, and property owners will be able to refer to the plan for information
on the future location of community facilities, land use recommendations, and development policies.

The Vision sets forth broad principles to guide the future development of the Valley and serves as
the foundation for more specific planning recommendations. Based on these principles the planning
process will consider different scenarios and choices, and the General Plan will establish detailed
policies and actions to achieve the Vision.




     THE GENERAL PLAN WILL ADDRESS:
        Land use and zoning                                       Parks, recreation, and open space
        Transportation                                            Natural resources and sustainability
        Housing and residential development                       Design and aesthetics
        Economic and commercial development                       Utilities and infrastructure
                                                                  Water and Sewer




       Assessment                    Visioning                Scenario                 Plan
       and Process                                            and Choices              Development
     September - October            October - January         January to April 2015    April - August 2015
           2014                          2015


                                                                                               Formal
           Stakeholder                             Scenario      Community        Public      Adoption
                              Visioning Workshop                                              Hearings
            Interviews                             Workshop   Choices Workshop    Review




OGDEN VALLEY GENERAL PLAN - VISION DOCUMENT
56                                                                                                  PLAN STUDY
CREATING A COMMUNITY VISION




                                                                          Image credit of Adam Barker Photography


The Ogden Valley “Vision” is your aspiration for the future of the Valley. It builds off of the Valley’s
1998 General Plan and 2005 General Plan Recreation Element, existing plans and policies, detailed
stakeholder interviews with community leaders and representatives, an audit of existing policies, two
public Visioning Events, and online discussions. The Vision process expresses areas of high-level
consensus about what the ideal future conditions for the community are; this includes how things
should look, feel, and function. It considers the natural environment, the social environment, and the
built environment. The Vision captures what residents most value about the Valley and what they
imagine it becoming in the future, and provides the rationale for direction that will be articulated in
the General Plan Update.

The visioning process engaged and involved a broad spectrum of Ogden Valley citizens. In
September and October 2014, the project team held one-on-one and small group interviews with
community leaders and representatives from city departments, partners, community groups, and
regional agencies, as well as local developers, business owners, and interested citizens. These
interviews were essential to gain a better understanding of influences on the Valley, and of the
values and direction people see for Ogden Valley. Interviews with interested stakeholders continued
throughout the planning process.

In early November, two visioning events were held to identify key issues and priorities to examine
during the plan, and to articulate a community vision. Over 200 residents attended the workshops
over two days. Participants represented most neighborhoods in the Valley and nearly all demographic
segments. Citizens reviewed maps and baseline information and provided input on community
values and preferences for the future direction of the Valley. Following the visioning events, event
materials were posted online to allow for continued online dialogue and commenting.




                                                                                                             5
                                                                                                           57
                                          Image accessed from http://www.whattodoinogdenvalley.com/blog/category/Indian%20Trail



 OGDEN VALLEY GENERAL PLAN - VISION DOCUMENT

58                                                                                                           PLAN STUDY
OUR COMMUNITY VISION - SO FAR


                             OGDEN VALLEY IS A PLACE WHICH:




                                           CHERISHES                      EMPOWERS
            VALUES AND
                                         AND MAINTAINS                   ITS CITIZENRY
           PROTECTS ITS
                                            ITS RURAL                    TO TAKE PART
          NATURAL BEAUTY
                                          ATMOSPHERE                     IN DECISIONS
           AND NATURAL
                                           AND RURAL                    AFFECTING THE
            RESOURCES
                                           LIFESTYLE                        VALLEY




THE VISION

Ogden Valley has a spectacular mountain backdrop with rolling hills, farmlands, and fields below. The
region is home to Ogden River’s North, Middle, and South Forks and their convergence at Pineview
Reservoir. There is an abundance of wildlife in the Valley. Deer, elk, and moose browse the plentiful
vegetation, fish teem in the reservoir waters and streams, and wild turkeys roost in the cottonwood
trees. The character of Ogden Valley is a direct reflection of these natural resources. The human
and natural landscape should continue to coexist harmoniously.

People are attracted to the Ogden Valley because of its rural lifestyle. They enjoy the quiet pace, the
friendships with neighbors, the open space, and the fresh air. They also enjoy a sense of community
which bonds Valley residents together. Residential and commercial development should be de-
signed to protect the Valley’s rural character. The Valley’s infrastructure will need to keep pace with
growth and observe resource limitations. Agriculture and recreational opportunities should remain
prominent values of the Valley. Visitors will continue to come from all over to enjoy these features
and appreciate the rural character of Ogden Valley.

This Vision document is a preliminary articulation of the community’s values and vision, and it will
continue to be refined throughout the General Plan Update process. The following aspirational values
and vision statements emerged from ideas expressed by the public for the future of the Valley.




                                                                                                       7
                                                                                                  59
                                               Image accessed from http://www.summit.co/news/

 OGDEN VALLEY GENERAL PLAN - VISION DOCUMENT
60                                                                          PLAN STUDY
    OGDEN VALLEY VISION PRINCIPLES


•   Recognize and respect private property rights.

•   Promote a strong sense of pride in the Valley’s history and heritage.

•   Ensure that development is compatible with the Valley’s scenic beauty, rural character,

    and natural resources.

•   Provide available housing that meets the need of all income levels, family types, and

    stages of life.

•   Realize the broader economic and employment opportunities in the Valley.

•   Enhance quality recreational opportunities and investment.

•   Promote agricultural land and open space preservation.

•   Ensure transportation and transit plans for travel to, from, and within the Valley support

    community character and growth objectives.




                                                                                                 9
                                                                                             61
     NATURAL ENVIRONMENT


Ogden Valley is a healthy and sustainable place, where protecting natural resources and open
space is prioritized.




                                                        Image credit of OgdenValley.blogspot.com/2010_10_01_archive.html

Open spaces and natural resources offer critical links to quality of life, the community’s heritage, an
active and healthy lifestyle, and to Ogden Valley’s identity as a place where harmony between the
natural and built environments is essential. Open space and the environment are the easiest assets
to lose and the most costly and difficult to replace.

Protecting Ogden Valley’s character depends upon preservation of its sensitive, natural, and open
features. Protecting these features is complex. It involves not just open space protection, but also
ridgeline and slope protection, lighting standards to protect night skies, and protecting sensitive
wildlife habitats, such as stream and migration corridors.

Pineview Reservoir, perhaps the most iconic feature of Ogden Valley, is also one of the busiest tourist
destinations in Northern Utah, and, according Recreation.gov it is the busiest reservoir in the state of
its size and type. Residents and stakeholders share concerns regarding overuse of the reservoir and
a lack of clear management jurisdiction. Additionally, a non-motorized pathway around the reservoir
is widely cited as a critical need.

While agricultural land provides some economic value to Ogden Valley in terms of crops produced, it
is becoming equally valuable for scenic reasons. The agricultural land that serves as a buffer between
homes and neighborhoods highlights the rural character of Ogden Valley. Prime agricultural land
should be preserved to maintain the scenic quality of the Valley, and useful tools to compensate
property owners for preservation should be available. Primary planning vision principles for the
Natural Environment include:

OGDEN VALLEY GENERAL PLAN - VISION DOCUMENT
62                                                                                                    PLAN STUDY
1. Open Space - Ogden Valley will conserve and protect open spaces and natural resources to
maintain the Valley’s quality of life and rural atmosphere, as well as to maintain natural integrity,
improve air quality, and support the health of Ogden Valley residents.

2. Sensitive Lands - Ogden Valley will preserve its sensitive lands. This is essential to ensure future
economic and recreation opportunities are viable, and to protect the rural character and heritage of
Ogden Valley. Sensitive lands include:

    Slopes and Ridgelines – Ogden Valley’s steep slopes and ridgelines will be preserved from
    unsafe and unappealing development to highlight the Valley’s natural landscape and beauty.

    Wildlife Habitat – Key areas of habitat should remain undeveloped to preserve and protect the
    wildlife living in Ogden Valley.

    View/Entry Corridors – To keep the rural feeling of Ogden Valley, key viewsheds should be
    preserved. Development should not encroach upon highway corridors, and should be avoided
    near the Valley’s entrances.

    Pineview Reservoir and North Fork Park – Pineview Reservoir and North Fork Park should be
    managed with care and scrutiny to ensure their values are protected or improved over time,
    even as demand and use increase.

    Stream Corridors – Ogden Valley should protect stream corridors to enhance water quality,
    natural habitat, and wildlife movement.

3. Agricultural Land - Ogden Valley will preserve key farm and ranch lands to maintain and enhance
the history, heritage, and character of the place.

4. Air, Water, and Dark Sky Quality - As development occurs, decisions will ensure that air, water,
and dark-sky quality conditions are protected for residents and visitors.




                                              Image credit of leaf-peeper.blogspot.com/2010/10/ogden-valley-fall-colors.html

                                                                                                                        11


                                                                                                                      63
     SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT

Ogden Valley provides places that help deliver a strong sense of community and high standard
of living for residents. Opportunities emerge to develop sustainable local businesses that ensure
superior service. Historic and cultural amenities and quality recreational opportunities are promoted
and protected.




                                                                                   Image credit of Jeff E Jensen

Ogden Valley residents desire a community much like they have today, but wish to leverage the
Valley’s cultural and recreational assets for new economic opportunities. The Valley doesn’t currently
provide a complete array of social functions: It provides great places to live and great places for day
recreation. However, it lacks a diversity of places for commercial and community interaction, places
to linger, shop, dine, and meet others, and to wander. As a result, the community – which plays host
to tens of thousands of tourist each year – gains little economic benefit from the services it provides,
and exports its own income and opportunity to businesses in the Greater Ogden Area. Locally-
owned and non-franchise businesses contribute to a healthy economy while enhancing community
character in the future.

Weber County and Weber Pathways have made great strides in recent years to improve the trail
system throughout the Valley. This effort should continue and trails should be connected cohesively
throughout the Valley. As the community grows and trails are used more frequently, these valley-
wide connections become more essential. Development of a complete pathway around Pineview
Reservoir, along with more natural and developed park space, will help to accommodate demand.

One of the key challenges presented to Ogden Valley is how to accommodate a growing population
while still maintaining a rural atmosphere. This is a rural community where large single family lots are
common. Many residents want to maintain rural residential character in the context of the current
minimum one-unit per three-acre lot size. Others see current zoning as a detriment to the end
goal of preserving open space and believe clustering of development would better protect Valley
character. There is broad interest in increasing housing density on the Valley floor near commercial
nodes and in resort areas, in exchange for keeping open land preserved. Primary vision principles
for the Social Environment include:
OGDEN VALLEY GENERAL PLAN - VISION DOCUMENT

64                                                                                            PLAN STUDY
1. Economic Development - Ogden Valley will support sustainable and thriving local businesses and
capitalize on recreational tourism to support its economic base. Diverse service and professional job
opportunities will emerge, and the choice for family generations to stay will be enhanced.

2. Recreation - Ogden Valley will seek strategic recreation-oriented investments that enhance the
recreational experience for visitors and residents. Ogden Valley will have a parks system connected
by trails, community facilities, and cultural features.

    Parks - Ogden Valley parks are host to a broad range of recreational and educational
    opportunities. They are used by residents of all ages and abilities for sports, exercise,
    relaxation, family events, night-sky viewing, and general recreation.

    Trails - Ogden Valley trails are cohesively connected throughout the valley and provide for
    a range of uses and abilities.

3. Land Use & Demographics - Ogden Valley is a place where people of all incomes and stages of
life can be found, and where land use patterns support healthy physical and social interactions. Over
time, the Valley will develop specific, excellent “places”, where community interaction is diverse,
integrated, and fun.

4. Historic and Cultural Resources - Ogden Valley will preserve and highlight its rich cultural heritage.
The Valley’s history contributes to its charm and character. Ogden Valley should embrace its unique
and authentic historical character by identifying and preserving historic and cultural resources that
promote the history and enrich the Valley’s sense of place.




                                                 Image accessed from whattodoinogdenvalley.com/uploads/1/1/7/9/1179258

                                                                                                                   13

                                                                                                                65
     BUILT ENVIRONMENT

Ogden Valley is a vibrant community with safe neighborhoods, attractive and walkable places,
distinct commercial cores, and diverse transportation and transit choices.




                                                                            Image credit of www.AmazingRaise.com

The built environment can be seen as the human response to integrating social and natural
environments. It includes commercial development, residential development, infrastructure—
such as transportation and utilities, urban design, and mobility. The built environment addresses
opportunities and challenges, and is essential for economic development and community growth.
The form and function of the built environment can have enormous beneficial or negative impacts
on a community.

Ogden Valley residents envision a built environment that is aesthetically subordinate to the natural
environment. In other words, the built environment should not overwhelm the features of the natural
environment that make the Valley feel so great. Residential and commercial growth should be
discouraged in proximity to major thoroughfares, with the exception of commercial centers, which
will help preserve the rural appearance of the Valley.

Commercial growth should be confined to commercial centers. The form, flow, and function of
these commercial places should be carefully planned to support the social desires and needs of
the community. Big-box, strip-type development is avoided; chain retail and national franchises
are avoided; and opportunities to walk and bike about commercial areas is accommodated.
Architectural design standards are desired to create cohesive, appropriate, and attractive commercial
developments.

Growth occurring outside the population centers should, to the maximum extent practicable,
be clustered to promote conservation of open lands and to make efficient use of infrastructure.
Residents of Ogden Valley desire walkable and bikeable community connections. Paths for active
transportation should connect around Pineview Reservoir and throughout the Valley, promoting
both alternative transportation and recreation. Additionally, there are multiple challenges with Valley
ingress and egress, and solutions that allow bicycles, cars, and transit to safely interact as they enter
and exit the Valley are important. To further enhance mobility in the Valley, public transportation
options are desired, such as a shuttle moving from the Huntsville Library to the Jr. High, or looping
around the reservoir during peak demand times. Primary planning vision principles for the Built
Environment include:
OGDEN VALLEY GENERAL PLAN - VISION DOCUMENT
66                                                                                             PLAN STUDY
1. Commercial - Ogden Valley commercial development will be compact and economically
sustainable, focused in limited centers, balanced with residential growth, and should promote the
area’s original character and charm.

2. Residential - Ogden Valley will contain a variety of housing types to meet the needs of a diverse
population with varied income levels and stages of life. Neighborhoods will have convenient access
to community amenities and will be designed in a manner which protects the valley’s character.
Clustered and efficient development will be supported.

3. Infrastructure - Weber County will strategically plan and implement improvements to facilities
and infrastructure to ensure necessary needs and services are provided to the community. These
include:

    Transportation – Ogden Valley’s transportation system should minimize the use of stop lights
    and stop signs to protect the rural character of the valley.

    Utilities – Ogden Valley should ensure water, sewer, and other utility infrastructure development
    occurs in advance of significant growth.

    Municipal Services – Weber County should provide infrastructure to support improvements for
    roads, paths and trails, schools, parks, and open space.

4. Urban Design - In Ogden Valley, Weber County will promote and incorporate unique and
functional urban design components in all new developments, public spaces, and streetscapes to
enrich areas throughout the valley, create distinctive visible character, and ensure a pedestrian-
friendly environment.

5. Mobility - In Ogden Valley, Weber County will provide safe, convenient, and integrated transportation
options throughout the community. In Ogden Valley should take advantage of its proximity to Ogden
City by providing convenient access and short travel times with transit and bicycle options through
Ogden Canyon.




                                                                                   Image credit of Mark Gilmore

                                                                                                           15
                                                                                                        67
             Appendix C
     Big Ideas Survey Summary




68                              PLAN STUDY
OGDEN VALLEY GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
BIG IDEAS SURVEY SUMMARY REPORT
May 5, 2015


226 Reponses-- 189 complete surveys, 37 partially complete

1. Place of residence
                                Out of Valley
                                     4%



                                 Liberty            Huntsville
                                   14%                22%



                           Ogden Canyon
                               10%




                                                 Eden
                                                 50%




2. Email address – not included in summary report.

3. Rate Priorities

Natural Environment

What are the most important things to do over the next 40 years? Rate your priorities for
the natural environment. These priorities were extracted from the Ogden Valley Vision
Document. You can review the Vision Document
here: http://valleyplan.com/documentsSelect the number of stars you think each priority
deserves (1 star = least important, 5 stars = most important):


                                                                                            69
                          Rank



 Preservation of views    Average Rank: 4.36


                                            1                 2
                                           2%                4%

                                                              3
                                                             12%



                                                                    4
                                                 5                 19%
                                                63%




 Preservation of natural Average Rank: 4.79

 assets (e.g., streams,
                                            1                      2 3
 wildlife)                                 1%                     0% 4%

                                                             4
                                                            10%




                                                       5
                                                      85%




70                                                                        PLAN STUDY
Farm acreage            Average Rank: 3.74

protected


                                                            1
                                                           7%         2
                                                                     11%
                                               5
                                              42%

                                                                            3
                                                                           22%


                                                           4
                                                          18%




Air and water quality   Average Rank: 4.80


                                          1                 2     3
                                         1%                0%    4%

                                                                 4
                                                                9%




                                                     5
                                                    86%




                                                                                 71
 Dark sky quality   Average Rank: 4.09




                                                1
                                               8%    2
                                                    6%
                                                          3
                                                         11%

                                          5
                                         57%
                                                      4
                                                     18%




72                                                             PLAN STUDY
4. Rate Priorities

 Social Environment

What are the most important things to do over the next 40 years? Rate your
priorities for the social environment below. These priorities were extracted from the
Ogden Valley Vision Document. Select the number of stars you think each priority
deserves (1 star = least important, 5 stars = most important):

                         Rank



Compensation for         Average Rank: 3.16
number of development

units/ property rights

protected

                                                            1
                                                5          17%
                                               28%

                                                                   2
                                                                  14%

                                               4
                                              12%
                                                         3
                                                        29%




Diversity of employment Average Rank: 2.11

in the Valley




                                                                                        73
                                                      5
                                                   4
                                                     5%
                                                  7%
                                                                      1
                                                                     35%
                                            3
                                           23%




                                                      2
                                                     30%




 Recreational quality      Average Rank: 4.03




                                                           1
                                                                2
                                                          5%
                                                               7%

                                                                      3
                                             5
                                                                     18%
                                            48%




                                                                4
                                                               22%




 Quantity of jobs in the   Average Rank: 2.26

 Valley




74                                                                         PLAN STUDY
                                                              5
                                                         4   7%
                                                        9%                1
                                                                         34%


                                                   3
                                                  22%



                                                                   2
                                                                  28%




Preservation of              Average Rank: 3.82

historic/cultural heritage


                                                                   1
                                                                  6%     2
                                                                        9%
                                                   5
                                                  40%
                                                                                3
                                                                               20%




                                                                   4
                                                                  25%




                                                                                     75
     5. Rate Priorities

     Built Environment

     What are the most important things to do over the next 40 years? Rate your
     priorities for the built environment below. These priorities were extracted from the
     Ogden Valley Vision Document. Select the number of stars you think each priority
     deserves (1 star = least important, 5 stars = most important):

                    Rank



     Commercial     Average Rank: 2.36
     diversity

     (services

     available)                                    5
                                                  10%
                                             4
                                                                1
                                            11%
                                                               35%



                                            3
                                           21%

                                                         2
                                                        23%




     Housing        Average Rank: 2.22

     diversity




76                                                                                          PLAN STUDY
                                                   5
                                              4   6%
                                             7%
                                                                1
                                                               33%


                                        3
                                       27%



                                                        2
                                                       27%




Access to         Average Rank: 3.78
water, sewer,

information

technology, and                                         1
                                                       8%     2
power systems                                                10%
                                        5
                                       45%
                                                                    3
                                                                   17%


                                                        4
                                                       20%




Retention and     Average Rank: 4.26
promotion of

character




                                                                         77
                                                                1
                                                               3%
                                                     2
                                                    4%      3
                                                           12%



                                        5
                                       57%                       4
                                                                24%




 Mobility choices Average Rank: 3.04

 available (i.e.,

 alternatives to

 the automobile)
                                              5           1
                                             21%         20%




                                                                     2
                                                                    15%
                                        4
                                       22%

                                                    3
                                                   22%




78                                                                        PLAN STUDY
6. Open Space and Agricultural Lands

                     Rating



Acquire              Average Rank: 3.47
agricultural lands

for open space.
                                                          1
                                                         12%
                                             5
                                            31%                       2
                                                                     13%




                                                                 3
                                                   4            22%
                                                  22%




Acquire non-         Average Rank: 4.04
agricultural land

for open space.
                                                         1
                                                        6%      2
                                                               8%

                                                                       3
                                                                      13%
                                           5
                                          51%


                                                                4
                                                               22%




County-              Average Rank: 2.60
sponsored


                                                                            79
 agritourism

 economic
                                                  5
 development                                     8%           1
                                       4                     25%
 program.
                                      16%




                                                              2
                                            3                22%
                                           29%




 Open space     Average Rank: 3.78
 protection

 through land

 acquisition.                                            1
                                                        7%    2
                                                             9%
                                      5
                                     42%

                                                                    3
                                                                   24%



                                                       4
                                                      18%




 Open space     Average Rank: 3.99
 protection

 through

 conservation

 easement.




80                                                                       PLAN STUDY
                                                 1
                                                9%      2
                                                       7%

                                                             3
                                                            12%
                                     5
                                    51%


                                                       4
                                                      21%




Open space     Average Rank: 3.24
protection

through

clustering.
                                                      1
                                       5             20%
                                      31%


                                                             2
                                                            12%


                                           4
                                          16%     3
                                                 21%




Open space     Average Rank: 2.99
conservation

funding from

sales tax

increment.




                                                                  81
                                            5             1
                                           21%           23%




                                      4                         2
                                     19%                       15%


                                                   3
                                                  22%




 Open space     Average Rank: 3.35
 conservation

 funding from

 event fees.                                             1
                                       5                18%
                                      30%

                                                                 2
                                                                12%



                                                          3
                                             4
                                                         19%
                                            21%




 Open space     Average Rank: 2.11
 conservation

 funding from

 property tax

 increase.




82                                                                    PLAN STUDY
                                                       5
                                                      10%
                                                4
                                               8%


                                          3                          1
                                         16%                        51%



                                                     2
                                                    15%




Hire a County       Average Rank: 2.67
Open Space

Coordinator to

manage
                                                     5
protection in the                                   18%
                                                                   1
Valley.                                                           33%

                                          4
                                         13%



                                                     3       2
                                                    21%     15%




                                                                          83
     7. Sensitive Lands

                      Rating



     Prohibit         Average Rank: 4.38
     development on
                                                              2
     ridgelines.
                                                             3%
                                                        1
                                                       6%
                                                                  3
                                                                 8%

                                                                       4
                                                                      13%


                                                  5
                                                 70%




     Prohibit         Average Rank: 4.04
     development on

     hillsides and

     steep slopes.                                      1
                                                       6%    2
                                                            7%


                                                                       3
                                                                      19%
                                            5
                                           53%


                                                             4
                                                            15%




     Prohibit         Average Rank: 4.28
     development in


84                                                                          PLAN STUDY
riparian areas                                         2
                                                      3%
and immediately
                                                  1
adjacent to                                      4%
                                                            3
creeks, rivers,                                            14%
and Pineview

Reservoir.
                                          5                   4
                                         63%                 16%




Acquire sensitive   Average Rank: 4.33
wildlife habitats

and protect as

open space.                                       1 2
                                                 4% 5%
                                                            3
                                                           13%


                                                              4
                                                             11%

                                            5
                                           67%




                                                                   85
     8. Air, Water, and Dark Sky Quality

                         Rating



     Solar or other      Average Rank: 3.55
     renewable

     energy

     requirements or                                          1
                                                             12%
     incentives for
                                               5                          2
     new construction                         36%                        12%
     in the Valley.


                                                                      3
                                                                     21%
                                                        4
                                                       19%




     Air quality         Average Rank: 3.34
     ordinances

     (emission

     inspection, anti-
                                                                    1
     idling,                                    5                  21%
     woodburning,                              34%

     etc.)                                                                  2
                                                                           7%


                                                                    3
                                                      4            20%
                                                     18%




     Transit systems     Average Rank: 2.81
     designed to


86                                                                              PLAN STUDY
reduce future

auto use.
                                                 5
                                                18%                1
                                                                  28%


                                          4
                                         15%

                                                                    2
                                                                   13%
                                                       3
                                                      26%




Drinking water      Average Rank: 3.28
delivery and

treatment

systems
                                                              1
Valleywide.                                                  20%
                                           5
                                          35%


                                                                         2
                                                                        14%


                                                 4           3
                                                13%         18%




Watershed           Average Rank: 4.14
protection

ordinance to

control new water

system

development.



                                                                              87
                                                  1
                                                        2
                                                 5%
                                                       7%
                                                                  3
                                                                 14%

                                            5
                                           56%
                                                              4
                                                             18%




 Sensitive lighting   Average Rank: 4.00
 requirements to

 protect night sky

 visibility.                                       1
                                                  9%         2
                                                            5%

                                                                  3
                                                                 15%
                                            5
                                           54%

                                                         4
                                                        17%




 Valleywide sewer     Average Rank: 2.85

 system.




88                                                                     PLAN STUDY
       5
      20%          1
                  27%



 4
15%
                    2
                   14%
             3
            24%




                         89
     9. Economic Development

                      Rating



     Focus economic   Average Rank: 2.67
     development on

     agritourism.
                                                        5
                                                       9%     1
                                                             22%
                                            4
                                           15%




                                                                    2
                                                                   23%
                                                  3
                                                 31%




     Focus economic   Average Rank: 3.30
     development on

     recreational

     tourism.                                                1
                                             5              17%
                                            30%

                                                                      2
                                                                     14%



                                                  4
                                                             3
                                                 18%
                                                            21%




     Focus economic   Average Rank: 2.74
     development on


90                                                                         PLAN STUDY
outdoor-industry

companies.
                                                     5
                                                    17%           1
                                                                 28%


                                         4
                                        17%


                                                                  2
                                                      3          19%
                                                     19%




Focus economic     Average Rank: 2.48
development on

local retail

opportunities.                                        5
                                                     11%
                                          4                        1
                                         11%                      33%




                                               3
                                              26%
                                                            2
                                                           19%




Focus economic     Average Rank: 2.06
development on

new jobs in the

Valley.




                                                                        91
                                                        5
                                                   4   7%
                                                  6%

                                                                         1
                                             3
                                                                        47%
                                            20%




                                                    2
                                                   20%




 Keep economic         Average Rank: 3.90
 activity centers in

 Ogden City.

                                                             1
                                                            14%
                                                                         2
                                                                        7%

                                                                         3
                                             5
                                                                        10%
                                            54%

                                                                   4
                                                                  15%




 Develop more          Average Rank: 1.98
 hotel and

 accommodation

 opportunities in

 the Valley.




92                                                                            PLAN STUDY
             5
       4    5%
      10%


 3
17%               1
                 52%


       2
      16%




                       93
     10. Recreation

                       Rating



     Improve parking   Average Rank: 2.89
     and access to

     Pineview

     Reservoir.                                    5                1
                                                  18%              22%




                                             4
                                            18%
                                                                          2
                                                                         21%

                                                         3
                                                        21%




     Enhance and       Average Rank: 4.19
     complete the

     pathway around                                                       2
                                                               1         5%
     Pineview
                                                              7%
     Reservoir.
                                                                          3
                                                                         10%



                                             5                            4
                                            62%                          16%




     Expand existing   Average Rank: 3.18
     community parks


94                                                                             PLAN STUDY
in Liberty and

Eden.
                                                                  1
                                                5                18%
                                               29%


                                                                        2
                                                                       18%

                                                4
                                               14%
                                                            3
                                                           21%




Invest in a new      Average Rank: 2.45
park at the south

end of the Valley.

                                                      5
                                                     16%
                                                                        1
                                           4
                                                                       39%
                                          6%




                                            3
                                           23%
                                                            2
                                                           16%




Adopt a              Average Rank: 2.90
recreation impact

fee program to

fund recreation

investments for

residents.




                                                                             95
                                                 5                 1
                                                22%               25%




                                           4
                                          14%
                                                                    2
                                                                   17%
                                                       3
                                                      22%




 Develop a “valley   Average Rank: 3.54
 use conservation

 fee”; assess on

 participants of                                             1
                                                            13%
 organized                                 5
                                          36%                            2
 recreation events
                                                                        11%
 and use

 proceeds for

 conservation and                                                   3
                                                                   19%
 event
                                                       4
 infrastructure.                                      21%




 Create more         Average Rank: 3.29
 trails to

 accommodate

 diverse user

 groups (mountain

 biking, horseman,

 OHV, etc.).




96                                                                            PLAN STUDY
                                                              1
                                                  5          19%
                                                 31%

                                                                      2
                                                                     12%



                                                    4
                                                              3
                                                   17%
                                                             21%




Hire a County         Average Rank: 2.67
Trails

Coordinator for

trail plans and
                                                    5
maintenance.                                       20%
                                                                    1
                                                                   34%

                                            4
                                           11%


                                                        3     2
                                                       18%   17%




Increase boat         Average Rank: 3.65
fees, especially

for large boats, at

Pineview

Reservoir.




                                                                           97
             1
            17%


                     2
      5
                    10%
     50%

                   3
                  13%
            4
           10%




98                        PLAN STUDY
11. Land Use and Demographics

                     Rating



Promote              Average Rank: 3.42
development in

existing, already

defined                                                           1
neighborhoods or                                 5               16%
                                                30%
centers.                                                                      2
                                                                             10%



                                                                        3
                                                                       18%
                                                       4
                                                      26%




Promote              Average Rank: 1.61
development on
                                                       4
underutilized and                                     2%
vacant land in the                                           5
                                                  3         4%
Valley.                                          10%



                                           2
                                          17%

                                                                        1
                                                                       67%




Encourage most       Average Rank: 3.06
new development


                                                                                   99
  in the resort

  areas.
                                                5                 1
                                               21%               22%




                                                                        2
                                          4                            15%
                                         21%

                                                            3
                                                           21%




  Cap current       Average Rank: 3.47
  development and

  redistribute in

  more efficient                                              1
                                                             15%
  patterns
                                          5
  (Transfer of                           37%
                                                                        2
  Development                                                          13%

  Rights).


                                                                  3
                                                      4          20%
                                                     15%




  Reduce            Average Rank: 3.29
  development

  entitlement

  through

  acquisition or

  Purchase of

  Development




100                                                                          PLAN STUDY
(PDR) tools.


                                                          1
                                                         20%
                                            5
                                           33%


                                                                     2
                                                                    14%


                                                  4      3
                                                 16%    17%




Greater develop     Average Rank: 2.76
the Valley’s

education

system, including                                 5
schools.                                         18%           1
                                                              28%


                                          4
                                         16%


                                                               2
                                                   3          19%
                                                  19%




Establish           Average Rank: 3.51
greenbelt buffers

between

neighborhoods.




                                                                          101
                                                       1
                                                      14%
                                          5
                                         35%                   2
                                                              10%




                                                             3
                                                            20%
                                                 4
                                                21%




  Develop           Average Rank: 3.23
  comprehensive

  emergency

  services in the                                      1
                                           5          17%
  Valley.                                 24%

                                                               2
                                                              13%


                                          4
                                         21%
                                                       3
                                                      25%




102                                                                 PLAN STUDY
12. Historic and Cultural Resources

                    Rating



Create a Historic   Average Rank: 3.27
Preservation

Master Plan for

the Valley.                                       1
                                          5      17%
                                         29%

                                                            2
                                                           15%


                                          4
                                         17%     3
                                                22%




Develop historic    Average Rank: 3.18
protection

requirements for

homes and
                                                      1
buildings over                            5          20%
                                         27%
100 years old.


                                                            2
                                                           14%

                                          4
                                         18%
                                                3
                                               21%




Identify historic   Average Rank: 3.09
districts and




                                                                 103
  produce design

  guidelines for

  compatible          5           1
                     23%         24%
  development.




                                        2
                    4                  12%
                   22%
                            3
                           19%




104                                          PLAN STUDY
14. Commercial

                    Rating



Require future      Average Rank: 4.09
commercial

development be

in currently                                           1
                                                      8%    2
defined                                                    6%
commercial                                                       3
                                                                11%
zones.
                                          5
                                         55%
                                                             4
                                                            20%




Develop a main-     Average Rank: 2.98
street commercial

area in Eden.


                                                5
                                               25%           1
                                                            31%




                                            4
                                                             2
                                           19%
                                                            9%
                                                      3
                                                     16%




Require all         Average Rank: 3.97
commercial




                                                                      105
  development to

  meet strict “non-
                                                  1
  strip/non-box” or                              8%     2
                                                       7%
  “mixed-use”

  development                               5                 3
                                           48%               13%
  standards.



                                                       4
                                                      24%




  Disallow chain      Average Rank: 3.79
  establishments

  Valleywide.

                                                       1
                                                      19%

                                                                    2
                                                                   5%
                                            5                 3
                                           56%               10%

                                                        4
                                                       10%




  Design a valley-    Average Rank: 3.09
  floor commercial

  plaza to enjoy

  music, festivals,

  and markets.




106                                                                     PLAN STUDY
 5            1
31%          28%




               2
  4           10%
 13%
        3
       18%




                    107
      15. Residential

                             Rating



      Cluster all new        Average Rank: 2.91
      residential

      housing.


                                                         5
                                                                      1
                                                        24%
                                                                     28%




                                                   4
                                                  16%                 2
                                                                     16%
                                                               3
                                                              16%




      Cluster all foothill   Average Rank: 2.98
      residential

      development in

      an overlay zone.
                                                         5
                                                                      1
                                                        21%
                                                                     26%




                                                   4
                                                                        2
                                                  18%
                                                                       11%

                                                                3
                                                               24%




      Require a mix of       Average Rank: 2.32
      new residential


108                                                                          PLAN STUDY
housing that

supports a variety
                                                   5
of income levels.                                 13%

                                           4
                                          11%                  1
                                                              47%


                                            3
                                           17%

                                                         2
                                                        12%




Increase housing     Average Rank: 2.13
density (upzone)

in select areas.
                                                         5
                                                        7%
                                             4
                                            16%


                                                               1
                                           3                  51%
                                          13%

                                                   2
                                                  13%




Reduce housing       Average Rank: 3.58
density

(downzone) in

select areas.




                                                                    109
                                                         1
                                                        17%
                                             5
                                            41%                    2
                                                                  9%


                                                                 3
                                                                14%

                                                   4
                                                  19%




  Place a              Average Rank: 3.62
  moratorium on

  new development

  until at least 50%
                                                           1
  of existing                                             18%

  approved
                                             5
                                                                       2
  development is                            47%
                                                                      9%
  built.
                                                                 3
                                                                13%
                                                     4
                                                    13%




  Broaden the          Average Rank: 2.39
  zones where

  vacation rentals

  (renting out own

  home, like

  AirBnB.com) are

  allowed.




110                                                                        PLAN STUDY
                                                   5
                                                  10%
                                             4                        1
                                            12%                      38%




                                             3
                                            22%

                                                         2
                                                        18%




Require new           Average Rank: 3.61
development to

meet strict design

guidelines for                                                 1
landscape,                                                    17%

sidewalk, lighting,                         5
                                                                       2
                                           45%
etc.                                                                  10%


                                                                     3
                                                                    13%
                                                         4
                                                        15%




                                                                            111
      16. Infrastructure

                           Rating



      Require              Average Rank: 3.33
      municipal-style

      services (water,

      sewer, power) to
                                                              1
      be provided as a
                                                 5           25%
      condition for all                         38%
      new

      developments.                                                 2
                                                                   8%

                                                             3
                                                       4    15%
                                                      14%




      Do not allow full-   Average Rank: 3.40
      scale

      sewer/water

      systems for new
                                                             1
      development;                                          21%
                                                 5
      allow natural
                                                41%
      constraints and
                                                                    2
      resources to                                                 11%
      control

      development                                            3
                                                       4    16%
      decisions.                                      11%




      Develop a            Average Rank: 3.50
      valleywide




112                                                                      PLAN STUDY
infrastructure

improvement
                                                       1
plan and budget.                                      13%
                                          5
                                         33%                      2
                                                                 13%




                                                                3
                                                               20%
                                                4
                                               21%




Underground all    Average Rank: 4.17
power

infrastructure

over time.                                            1
                                                     6%    2
                                                          6%
                                                                  3
                                                                 11%


                                         5
                                        59%                      4
                                                                18%




                                                                       113
      17. Community Design and Aesthetics

                         Rating



      Prohibit           Average Rank: 4.13
      development

      within a buffer

      adjacent to                                    1
                                                    8%     2
      scenic corridors                                    6%
                                                                 3
      throughout the                                            8%
      valley.
                                               5
                                              58%               4
                                                               20%




      Create consistent Average Rank: 3.81

      architectural

      design standards

      for commercial                                 1
                                                    10%
      development.                                              2
                                                               9%
                                               5
                                              46%
                                                                 3
                                                                16%



                                                     4
                                                    19%




      Promote the        Average Rank: 3.65




114                                                                   PLAN STUDY
unique identity of

Ogden Valley
                                                             1
through uniform                                             15%
signage design.
                                           5                          2
                                          44%                        7%



                                                                     3
                                                                    18%

                                                       4
                                                      16%




Create uniform       Average Rank: 3.19
streetscape

requirements for

the valley.
                                                               1
                                             5                23%
                                            32%



                                                                      2
                                                                     11%

                                                 4
                                                12%      3
                                                        22%




                                                                           115
      18. Transportation and Mobility

                        Rating



      Focus future      Average Rank: 4.05
      transportation

      spending on

      maintaining                                              1
                                                                    2
                                                              4%
                                                                   7%
      existing roads.
                                                                          3
                                              5                          13%
                                             45%




                                                                    4
                                                                   31%




      Build new roads   Average Rank: 2.11
      to support

      increased

      demand.                                             5
                                                    4    9%
                                                   6%
                                                                          1
                                              3                          45%
                                             18%




                                                         2
                                                        22%




      Invest in a       Average Rank: 2.36
      comprehensive


116                                                                            PLAN STUDY
                                                             1
                                          5                 31%
                                         43%




                                                             2
                                                            8%
                                                4     3
                                               10%   8%




Connect             Average Rank: 3.82
pathways and

trails throughout

the Valley.                                           1
                                                     14%
                                                               2
                                                              8%

                                          5
                                         51%                   3
                                                              11%


                                                       4
                                                      16%




Build a tunnel      Average Rank: 2.14
under North

Ogden Divide.




                                                                    117
                                                        5
                                                       18%

                                             4
                                            6%

                                             3
                                                                          1
                                            8%
                                                                         61%
                                                  2
                                                 7%




  Do not widen         Average Rank: 3.01
  Ogden Canyon;

  focus on

  Trapper’s Loop.

                                                  5                  1
                                                 33%                33%




                                                    4               2
                                                   12%             11%
                                                              3
                                                             11%




  To control traffic   Average Rank: 2.91
  flow, install an

  easy-flow traffic

  solution (round-a-

  bout) at the four-

  way stop in Eden



118                                                                            PLAN STUDY
                                        5
                                                               1
                                       33%
                                                              39%




                                            4
                                           10%            2
                                                    3
                                                         8%
                                                   10%




Gondola from   Average Rank: 2.18
Eden town to

Powder

Mountain.                                     5
                                 4           16%
                                5%



                                      3                        1
                                     15%                      55%


                                              2
                                             9%




                                                                    119
             Appendix D
      Land Use Survey Summary




120                             PLAN STUDY
 8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report




             Land Use Survey Summary Report

                1. Overall Land Use Goals ­­ The Ogden Valley should:Information Sheet Link

                                                                                                                                                 Rating

                 a. Not change future land use. Allow current zoning to play out (Figure 1).
                                                                                                                                                 (2.56)
                                                                                                                                                 Count: 45
                                                                                                                                                 StdDev: 1.73
                                                                                                                                                 Max: 5

                 b. Require future development to be more efficient (e.g., clustered development, reallocated
                 density).                                                                                                                       (3.46)
                                                                                                                                                 Count: 46
                                                                                                                                                 StdDev: 1.50
                                                                                                                                                 Max: 5

                 c. Reduce future potential development.
                                                                                                                                                 (4.10)
                                                                                                                                                 Count: 49
                                                                                                                                                 StdDev: 1.40
                                                                                                                                                 Max: 5




121
 https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d                  1/33
      8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report




122
                     2. Additional comments for Question 1:


                      Count        Response

                      1            Encourage clustered development but do not mandate

                      1            Reduce development and protect the pristine quality of Ogden Valley/Ogden Canyon.

                      1            We can not allow Ogden Valley to become just another Wasatch bedroom community.

                      1            We do not want an urban city in Ogden Valley. Period.

                      1            not sure at all which was figure one. this is a rather weird survey

                      1            I DO NOT want to make Ogden Valley into the next Park City. I would like for it to remain a bedroom
                                   community to Ogden with limited amenities.

                      1            Why do the numbers keep shifting? Or are they just educated guesses? 15.6k is still too high.
                                   Layton/Kaysville, here we come.

                      1            need to strongly consider water needs before allowing development need to require efficient water use

                      1            Housing Density in the valley will continue to be an issue. Those of us who are here don't want to see the
                                   valley become a Park City and infrastructure and Water remain huge concerns. Clustered development with
                                   open space seems a better solution than one home per every 3 acres.

                      1            The most efficient, desirable development for much of the density would be high density, mixed­use villages
                                   of a few thousand units... see Cedar City's village ordinance.

                      1            In order to maintain the rural feel of the valley (consistent with the values in the General Plan) we need to
                                   maintain agricultural open space, being actively farmed. The only way to do this economically without taking
                                   wealth from the farmers is to transfer units to receiving areas with higher density.




PLAN STUDY
                      1            There is amply water, roads to handle approx. 35,000 total residence. With 2.4 people per residence and
      https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   2/33
 8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report

                              approx. 15,000 total build out units.

                 1            everyone is missing the point and wasting money. the major water companies in the valley are at or near
                              capacity now. (News Flash there is no more water) until that is understood all planning is wasted energy

                 1            We have to stop playing a sell game and stop just moving the development units around. The total of units
                              must be reduced

                 1            WE NEED TO BE MORE LIKE PARK CITY / ITS A TOURIST DESTINATION WITH ZERO PLACES TO
                              STAY ­­­­­ THEN AND ONLY THEN WILL THE LANDOWNERS BE ABLE TO SELL LAND

                 1            The County has already approved multiple development areas. The land has been cut up for streets, water
                              and sewers. There or at least for development areas offer the full snow basin Road that have very few
                              houses on them. The lots remain empty. There are at least four development areas off of Old Snowbasin
                              Road that have very few houses on them. The same is true in the Eden area. Let the current development
                              areas fill up before you allow more.

                 1            Interesting that the totals keep shifting. It is encouraging that they seem to be coming down from the truly
                              scary 24000, but they are still too high. This Valley simply cannot sustain 15.6k units and maintain anything
                              like its current quality of life.

                 1            I feel future developments should have mandatory water restrictions and provide a certain percentage of self
                              sufficient power

                 1            I am a huge proponent of TDRs and conservation easements. I would like to find a way to reward
                              landowners for establishing conservation easements.


                 1            While cluster subdivisions leave open space they come with additional units from the current zoning and that
                              needs to stop. There should be incentives to developers for creating 10 plus acres ranches like those found
                              at River Ranch, Falcon Crest and Middlefork Meadows. These communities help maintain the agricultural
                              and lifestyle elements of the community. We do not need to build the suburbs up here. STOP GIVING
                              BONUS DENSITY




123
 https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   3/33
      8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report




124
                     3. Current Zoning Goals ­­ If current zoning is allowed to play out (question 1, option a), the
                     General Plan should:Information Sheet Link

                                                                                                                                                      Rating

                      a. Strengthen the ordinance framework in specific ways (describe ways below).
                                                                                                                                                      (3.87)
                                                                                                                                                      Count: 38
                                                                                                                                                      StdDev: 1.32
                                                                                                                                                      Max: 5

                      b. Require future development to have municipal utility service (e.g., water and sewer).
                                                                                                                                                      (3.42)
                                                                                                                                                      Count: 43
                                                                                                                                                      StdDev: 1.62
                                                                                                                                                      Max: 5

                      c. Require strict architectural, landscaping, and aesthetic design requirements for commercial
                      development.                                                                                                                    (3.93)
                                                                                                                                                      Count: 45
                                                                                                                                                      StdDev: 1.42
                                                                                                                                                      Max: 5

                      d. Designate additional future commercial areas.
                                                                                                                                                      (3.23)
                                                                                                                                                      Count: 44
                                                                                                                                                      StdDev: 1.68
                                                                                                                                                      Max: 5

                      e. Cap total development.




PLAN STUDY
      https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d                  4/33
 8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report

                                                                                                                                                 (4.45)
                                                                                                                                                 Count: 44
                                                                                                                                                 StdDev: 1.20
                                                                                                                                                 Max: 5




                4. In response to 3a, how should the ordinance framework be strengthened?


                 Count        Response

                 1            ...and the deck chairs will be nice and straight as the ship sinks.

                 1            Clearer on what density means and who has what units.

                 1            Complete Water Study before moving forward

                 1            DESIGNATR BIKE PATH $$ FOR EACH UNIT SOLD ­­­­­­LIKE PARK CITY

                 1            Each unit should have enough water rights to be self sufficient.

                 1            Leave choice to the people. Stop over control

                 1            No building unless water is available and other infrastructure in place

                 1            Simplify and rationalize conditional uses.

                 1            Zoning needs to be more specific so that terms and definitions are clear for proper enforcement.

                 1            match water needs to water availability, strictly




125
                 1            see previous comment
 https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d                  5/33
  8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report




126
                  1            yes but with good planning

                  1            tighten up land uses, eliminate CVR­1 zones, strengthen the sensitive land ordinance to include all ridgelines
                               regardless of location to scenic byways, add more scenic corridors along scenic roadways,

                  1            Aesthetics should be required to meet pre­determined guidelines with restrictions on signage that looks
                               tacky.

                  1            Only through County ordinances can anything be enforced. One ordinance could require municipa water and
                               sewer for any new development. Another ordinance could require a certain % of open space be retained for
                               any future developments.

                  1            1. Implement a density cap and a TDR ordinance. 2. Add a rural subdivision ordinance. 3. Change
                               commercial to get people out of cars and walking from business to business.

                  1            The ordinance framework should be strengthened by establishing BOTH TDR and PDR so that development
                               rights can be transferred or bought and taken off the table. We don't need additional commercial areas, we
                               need to support the ones we've got, since the trend to second homes will not generate enough permanent
                               residents for MORE commercial areas.

                  1            Develop specific ordinances to codify the elements of the General Plan currently being researched and
                               prepared by Logan Simpson Design.

                  1            Future building should be strictly limited by the documented natural resource availability (e.g. water)

                  1            Allow zero new density. Tighten the code around density that does not count (e.g., lockout rooms, hotels,
                               accessory apartments, etc. Strengthen sensitive lands ordinance, especially ridgeline.

                  1            Approved development should have a percentage of buildings built before other developments get appr
                               development should have a percentage of buildings built before other development areas are approved.

                  1            New Sign Ordinance, Strengthen Dark Ski, Do away with any bonus density awards, Some how cap the
                               total units at 15,625




PLAN STUDY
  https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   6/33
8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report

                1            STOP allowing conditional use permits! For example, if the current zoning allows for a specific roof height,
                             stick to that zoning. (A perfect example is the roof height variance granted for the Moose Hollow club house.)
                             It's there for a reason. Weber County LOVES to override current zoning, especially for commercial and
                             recreational use.

                1            Develop community plans that have uniqueness, that don't feel like Syracuse Utah. Mix smaller lots in
                             between larger ranch style properties allowing animals and horse properties. Pathways both paved and for
                             horses should be developed.

                1            get rid of the county commissioners who TAKE BRIBES first of all. Then whoever owns powder mountain
                             should not have the FINAL word into how they develop (read STEAL) their water rights. I'm glad that there is
                             this survey but it totally blows that as a resident I was given ONE days notice in the Ogden valley
                             newspaper only to have the link THERE not work. A bit more heads up would have been nice as this is the
                             first I've heard about this.

                1            Need enforceable ordinances that will protect water quality, visual quality and provide design elements for
                             growth.

                1            make ordinances understandable....most of them i read alot of verbage that is rediculously complicated...

                1            Preservation and Protection sub­division with 18" dirt roads. Choose to develop this way and retire 50% of
                             entitlements in perpetuity. Develop a vault to place retired entitlements in perpetuity. Keep valley agricultural
                             and rural to continue to entice large landowners to stay in the valley and steward their land. DO NOT give
                             away any more free entitlements to resorts or allow auxiliary rental units on building lots. Pass a RAMP like
                             tax to purchase open space or purchase entitlements off large landowners parcels. Enforce the resort zone
                             TDR rule to transfer units off the valley floor and into the higher mountain resort areas. Do not induce demand
                             through new urbanization commercial development. Do not induce demand through unrealistic road
                             development. The proposal at the meeting was ridiculous. More roads than going in Jackson Hole and
                             Yellowstone.

                1            Commercial restrictions are tuff enough. I would like to see some design standards i.e Old Eden Square
                             should have Old Town Eden feel with some flexability in Design.




127
                1            TDRs, perhaps the county should become the TDR stock exchange where extra TDRs can be purchased
https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d    7/33
      8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report




128
                                   from property owners willing to sell them and place their land in a cons. easement then sold to
                                   resorts/developers who have not been able to acquire TDRs in other ways.




                     5. In response to 3b, additional comments:


                      Count        Response

                      1            Centralized municipal utility services should be required for all clustered developments

                      1            Complete Water Study before moving forward

                      1            Important that the valley move toward developing a single all supporting utility service

                      1            Some areas do not have access.. do NOT over control.

                      1            This would INSURE quarter acre lots and insane density.

                      1            Water quality is of paramount importance and municipal utility service should be required.

                      1            developers should actually have to pay for water & sewer rather than getting the county to bond

                      1            make powder mountain get their water honestly, not stealing it from us and really, who wants to live in that
                                   wind tunnel?

                      1            sewer would be great however that would have a significant impact on upper valley water table if the water
                                   were to go to ogden sewer district


                      1            See the GEM sewer recommendation. Sewer trunk lines in only the most densely populated areas. Combine




PLAN STUDY
                                   the many culinary and secondary water companies into a single company.
      https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   8/33
 8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report


                 1            Water and sewer systems should be provided in the commercial centers to drive nodal development and
                              higher density walkable villages (with pedestrian walkways/ mainstreet without cars e.g. Breckenridge
                              model. You can't have successful village development without sewer and water.

                 1            Municipal sewer (like Wolf Creek Water and Sewer) recycles precious water back to the communities and
                              eliminates the potential of raw sewage entering the environment.

                 1            We already have enough cookie­cutter subdivisions. Ogden Valley must be preserved as a much different
                              place where these can come to recreate.

                 1            No development should be allowed to proceed without being able to show that all needed utilities, including
                              transportation infrstructure, are available.

                 1            In my opinion the only true thing that will slow development in the area is the lack on infrastructure. So, don't
                              bring it. This will open the flood gates. Development will always push for more density.

                 1            It is un fair and not financially possible for small land owner to run sewer and water lines to the few waste
                              water treatment plants available in the valley to hook onto.

                 1            Municipal system only work when you have economy of scale and one development will not be big enough to
                              support a large water and sewer system. The county or state has to push to make this happen.

                 1            Don't do anything that will induce demand or accelerate development. It is not a bad thing that developing in
                              the Valley is difficult.

                 1            Development should not be allowed if there is not water and sewer service to support it. Individual homes on
                              private property should be allowed to use septic systems if it is their only option.

                 1            Do not induce demand through a valley wide government run taxed sewer system. Sewer systems should
                              continue to be privately owned with Weber County the body politic. Buyers in subdivisions can then pay for
                              the sewer they require when they purchase their lot.

                 1            The current situation with Summit Group is a perfect example of Weber County NOT being tuned into Ogden




129
                              Valley water. There's only so much accessible water.
 https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d    9/33
      8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report




130
                     6. In response to 3c, additional comments:


                      Count        Response

                      1            Height and lighting restrictions..We like our "dark skies"

                      1            I really don't care what they do architecturally.

                      1            I wish stricter standards could be required for home owners too.

                      1            Less important, but this would also help preserve the " rural feel" of the valley.

                      1            Let business people decide. STOP government interference in business.

                      1            Specific height requirements

                      1            This should happen anyway, especially with regard to garish signs and lighting.

                      1            no grass or high water needs no wood­burning fireplaces

                      1            Change ordinances as necessary to treat all quasi­public entities like water company as commercial.
                                   Currently, entities like Ogden City, Huntsville Town, and any number of water companies pay little or no
                                   attention to reclamation, design, aesthetics, landscaping, etc. Look around and you will see plenty of
                                   examples.

                      1            Against this idea. We already have thousands of areas set a side for not development I. E North Fork Park,
                                   Elk Refuage. Plus we already have 3 acre minimum building requirements,




PLAN STUDY
                      1            no "golden arches" signs... any chains should comply with our sign and lighting ordinances. Valley should
      https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   10/33
 8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report

                              strengthen it's "sense of place" this way.

                 1            Right now the valley looks like chaos with no architectural guidelines. We need guidelines that support the
                              rural and agricultural values as spelled out in the current OVGP.

                 1            red Herring, just make sure they adhere to existing zoning, sign and lighting ordinances. Work with existing
                              commercial to replace signs that do not fit within the existing ordinance

                 1            In order to maintain the beauty and mountain feel for the valley this is absolutely necessary to prevent the
                              area from looking like a hodge podge of cheap development. Height restrictions on commercial develpment
                              should be enforced and signage should be regulated.

                 1            Also a must. We now have 3 separate commercial zones in the valley. Each with a different design. Old town
                              Huntsville, Old town Eden and the log cabins near the Market.

                 1            Architectural standards, especially signage, in commercial areas will drive tasteful development that will
                              increase property values. In particular, we should avoid all billboards and large lighted signs (dark skies etc).
                              The places that have sign standards that are enforced are visually appealing for visitors.

                 1            stop screwing with ogden canyon and get the marathon out of here...i am tired of people pissing all over the
                              place....just because they are in the marathon...go over the trappers loop or something....

                 1            Absolutely! Since there are no ordinances against specific commercial businesses coming to the valley (e.g.,
                              MacDonalds, Burger King, etc.), at least the architectural standards would help control the appearances if
                              built.

                 1            The area is a mix of buildings that make no sense, especially commercial areas. Some owners care about
                              aesthetics, flow, etc. The cabins just built in Eden stick out and do not work with any other areas. We have
                              floating buildings all over the place, the coffee shop next to valley market, Pat's Place. IT IS A MESS. Most
                              resort towns do exactly what is happening and put in a master architectural plan after the fact. Please stop it
                              before it gets worse.




131
 https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d    11/33
      8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report




132
                     7. In response to 3d, in what specific areas should commercial space be designated?


                      Count        Response

                      1            Allow development in current commercial areas and no more. Leave it rural and pristine

                      1            Close to main highways in Huntsville, Eden and Liberty.

                      1            Complete Water Study before moving forward

                      1            Current commercial space.

                      1            Huntsville, Eden East, Eden West, Wolf Creek, and Liberty.

                      1            In current areas around the Valley Market and Maverick and on the way to Powder Mountain

                      1            Next to current commercial space

                      1            The 4­way stop and Huntsville Town

                      1            Where mixed use villages are to be located. Primarily Eden and Huntsville annexation area.

                      1            how many times does the county need to go over this....it is like beating a dead horse.....

                      1            We're about reaching our "cap" now. Really, do we "NEED" more houses/Commercial buildings? Don't think
                                   so.

                      1            Do not add any additional mixed use commercial density above what already exists. The resorts have plenty
                                   of mixed commercial planned. To much will urbanize the valley, create a city and make it harder for business
                                   to succeed in the resorts. It was nice to see this consensus at the last meeting from every group.




PLAN STUDY
                      1            Commercial should develop in Town Nodes not spread out through the valley. Marverick/Valley Market is
      https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   12/33
 8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report

                              one area, Old Eden Town Square is another and the Snow Basin Intersection is another. These are natural
                              centralized commercial areas

                 1            There is already a large amount of land zoned commercial...most is vacant, has been for sale for a very long
                              time, or continues as its prior use. Like it or not, Ogden and Riverdale are too close to the Valley and
                              undermine many commercial attempts.

                 1            There are already under utilized commercial areas. Spaces to consider, the node at the base of Old
                              Snowbasin Road and Highway 39, the intersection of the highway and 100 S. Otherwise there are several
                              zoned commercial sites that sit unused. Do not over build commercial.

                 1            Pretty much were they are now. Maybe add one or two at the bottom of Trappers Loop Road and near
                              Liberty Park. o,

                 1            We shouldn't have ADDITIONAL commercial areas until we have developed successful activity in the ones
                              we have got. You should look at the "human geography" of the valley ­ additional commercial growth at
                              Trappers Loop junction, Huntsville towncenter and Liberty are the only locations we need in addition to Eden
                              centers. They are already zoned CVR? Development at Nordic and Wolf Creek should be limited to "resort
                              commercial" and keep service commercial in the existing traffic nodes. It would be better to force the traffic to
                              slow down, than plan for the traffic to by pass these areas.

                 1            IMO there are enough commercial areas within the valley. The majority of commercial will be in Ogden and
                              Mountain Green

                 1            not sure what areas, I guess the 'downtown' areas mostly. no one in a residential area wants some bullshit
                              'business' going in.

                 1            No more additional commercial use areas. Build out what is already in the master plan and be done.

                 1            Concentrated areas where commercial already exsist. Valley Market, Intersection of Snow Basin Road and
                              Road adjacent to south side of Pineview. Plus old Town Eden by Eden Park,




133
 https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d    13/33
      8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report




134
                     8. In response to 3e, what development cap, in units, is appropriate to you:


                      Count        Response

                      1            "Current Units with Platted Vacant Parcels"

                      1            10,000 plus or minus

                      1            4,500

                      1            50% of the projection

                      1            As it is now. DO NOT consider a down zone proposal

                      1            Cap should apply to entire township and account for all currently zoned rights. Estimate 24,000.

                      1            Complete Water Study before moving forward

                      1            None

                      1            Only what can be self sufficient with water in a drought year.

                      1            Platted vacant parcels.

                      1            This is dependent upon clustering guidelines and zoning.

                      1            Whatever it is now and then we should establish a means to transfer current density

                      1            stop before we run out of water. common sense, right?

                      1            stop big development....keep them small and simple




PLAN STUDY
                      1            Capping total development would establish a market value for the development units of our landowners.
      https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   14/33
 8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report

                              15625 ­ the existing zoned number would work since 5300 are off the valley floor. The resort units should not
                              be allowed to drift upwards through accessory buildings on residential lots (as proposed by Summit). The
                              keys are 1) no increases through upzoning and 2) establishing TDR and PDR

                 1            Total development units must be driven by carrying capacities of roads, water, sewer and air quality.

                 1            Everything that can be legally done to reduce development rights should be reviewed to help maintain the
                              rural feel of the valley.

                 1            The current development entitlements, ethically and morally should be the cap. If the cap is reduced, they
                              should come from the resort that was gifted extra entitlements from thin air, a decade after taking 2/3 of the
                              large landowners entitlements away ­­ from 1 entitlement per acre to 1 entitlement for 3 acres

                 1            There are so many developments that are already approved it will take years for them to even be 50%
                              occupied. Put a moratorium on more approved development. Spend the time and money trying to figure out
                              how to get people in and out of the Valley and supplying water and sewer. Those are the problems, not how
                              many development areas can be stuffed into the Valley.

                 1            I don't know what is appropriate as land owners have right to retain the value of the property they own.
                              Perhaps a development agreement that states developers are required to take a 30% density reduction
                              unless they acquire rights from another property. Like the TDR ordinance but this way only land being
                              developed is hit and would not impact those tracts of land with less than say 4 development units.

                 1            Not sure about the number of units, but a level where the Valley still has the "rural" feel, with limited
                              congestion, good air quality, open space where wildlife still thrives, and rivers all having instream flows. To
                              allow the density that COULD happen would, in effect, kill the goose that laid the golden egg and destroy the
                              very value of the area.


                 1            Future commercial development should not include franchise businesses. Development should be capped at
                              currently approved levels until this plan is worked out and agreed to

                 1            Problem is that many current units are NOT occupied year around. This produces NO revenue except
                              seasonally and minimal. Future development if given to high ticket housing will create the SAME PROBLEM.




135
                              Good for the real estate folks but lousy for residents who live year around in the area.
 https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   15/33
      8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report




136
                      1            Zero beyond what now exists, with a plan for retiring what we can through PDR, conservation easements,
                                   voluntary reductions, etc.




                     9. Additional comments for Question 3:


                      Count        Response

                      1            Cap building now. Permit "replacement" building only.

                      1            Complete Water Study before moving forward

                      1            do the right thing, not the wrong thing.

                      1            Ogden Valley is not Heber or Morgan. We have a large city minutes away. Ogden Valley should continue to
                                   be non­commercial, rural and agricultural. The resorts will have plenty of density and commercial space. We
                                   don't need more on the valley floor ­­ especially a city that requires the commercial proposals from the Zions
                                   Bank Representative. Terrible idea.

                      1            Respecting current landowners rights yet restricting growth in the valley is difficult to balance but must be
                                   accomplished by open and fair discussion.

                      1            I think the discussion needs to go from a "master plan" suggestion to really laying it out, what will be where,
                                   architectural guidelines, considerations for businesses, etc. There are several ridiculous items now that you
                                   can't have an off premises sign but we have A­frame signs everywhere. It is a mess and the county does
                                   nothing about it. So get fair so commercial areas off of the main road become viable, and start enforcing the
                                   ordinances in place so it quits looking like a yard sale on every corner.




PLAN STUDY
                      1            Whenever I hear someone say that growth in Ogden Valley is inevitable I get upset. Growth can be

      https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   16/33
 8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report

                              controlled in that we decide to stop growing. I feel that we're in danger of losing/ruining the very elements of
                              the Valley that make it so appealing ­ small town, rural, open space.




                10. Future Development Efficiency Goals ­­ If density is reallocated (question 1, option b),
                meaning that we move density from some places in the Valley to other places in the Valley, the
                General Plan should: Information Sheet Link

                                                                                                                                                 Rating

                 a. Continue to use Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) as the primary tool.
                                                                                                                                                 (3.44)
                                                                                                                                                 Count: 41
                                                                                                                                                 StdDev: 1.38
                                                                                                                                                 Max: 5

                 b. Require future development to be clustered.
                                                                                                                                                 (3.47)
                                                                                                                                                 Count: 43
                                                                                                                                                 StdDev: 1.59
                                                                                                                                                 Max: 5

                 c. Define additional receiving areas for TDRs (currently, the resorts are the only receiving
                 areas).                                                                                                                         (3.51)
                                                                                                                                                 Count: 41
                                                                                                                                                 StdDev: 1.58
                                                                                                                                                 Max: 5

                 d. Prohibit density bonuses.
                                                                                                                                                 (3.98)




137
 https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d                  17/33
      8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report




138
                                                                                                                                                      Count: 40
                                                                                                                                                      StdDev: 1.56
                                                                                                                                                      Max: 5

                      e. Within designated areas, allow landowners to opt­in to becoming TDR receiving areas.
                                                                                                                                                      (3.44)
                                                                                                                                                      Count: 39
                                                                                                                                                      StdDev: 1.46
                                                                                                                                                      Max: 5




                     11. In response to 9a, additional comments:


                      Count        Response

                      1            Also allow PDR's

                      1            I'm not sure what TDR's are

                      1            NO TDR / LET FREE MARKET PLAY OUT

                      1            Only if an enduring cap can be used.

                      1            The concept of TDRs needs to be more fully developed and explained by using examples.

                      1            Use TDR as defined in the RR zone. Look at allowing same owner transfer among parcels.

                      1            not sure this even makes sense to transfer rights. we either have a zone or we do not?

                      1




PLAN STUDY
                                   You may say "continue to use TDRs as a primary tool, but I do not think it is clearly defined how this tool is

      https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d                  18/33
      8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report

                                   used. Also, I suspect there are a lot of folks who have no clue on what TDRs are.

                      1            I like TDRs unless it is used to give Snowbasin a 2 to 1 bonus?! What is the purpose of that. You just added
                                   3 times the units. 1000 additional units and still left a substantial number on the valley floor.

                      1            TDR's are a bad joke as they relate to the Valley floor. They do absolutely nothing to alleviate the disaster
                                   that superdensity will generate. And arbitrary designation of sending and receiving areas will simply result in
                                   endless litigation.

                      1            Concerned that the use of TDRs will have the unintended consequence of transferring rights from land that is
                                   not practically developable down to the Valley floor and increasing the number of units there.

                      1            History shows, that the county commission has no stomach for legislatively enforcing TDR's. They caved
                                   completely to Powder Mountains request for gifted units. This is NOT a viable concept given Weber County
                                   Commissioner's political ideology.

                      1            This needs to be enforced and monitored. It is rumored that Weber County allowed the Summit group to
                                   acquire additional TDRs without purchasing them from exiting TDR owners.

                      1            Everyone should have the same opportunity to be designated receiving area. Let the market determine
                                   where it makes sense. I think you ment 10 A

                      1            We should also have a firm cap and purchase of the development rights to maintain the VALUE of the
                                   development rights.




                     12. In response to 9b, additional comments:


                      Count        Response




139
      https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   19/33
      8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report




140
                      1            10 B Totally against this idea on mandated culstering

                      1            Cluster commercial areas but not necessarily residential.

                      1            Clustering developments with open space will help retain the open space feel of the valley.

                      1            Same here.

                      1            Support this very much ­­ it is a way to ensure some preservation of open space.

                      1            not all development should be clustered

                      1            yeah, keep businesses out of residential areas

                      1            Clusters are fine except when that is all you have. This is a farm community not just a resort area and the
                                   more you cluster the more you make it feel like Syracuse.

                      1            I differentiate cluster from village zoning. All development should not be required to be clustered.

                      1            De­facto, almost all development will be cluster. It saves developers huge sums of money and makes lots
                                   more affordable. We do not need to require it or provide additional density to help stimulate it.

                      1            Higher density and mixed use should be encouraged in the commercial nodes ­ we need the lower cost
                                   housing to reduce commuting into the valley.




                     13. In response to 9c, where could additional receiving areas be located?


                      Count        Response




PLAN STUDY
                      1            Close to Huntsville, close to the existing Eden Center, close to the 3 way stop in Liberty.
      https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   20/33
 8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report



                 1            Huntsville, Eden East, Eden West, Wolf Creek, and Liberty

                 1            I have no freaking idea what a 'receiving area' even is

                 1            In developments designed for senior communities that are clustered.

                 1            See 9a above

                 1            Where developers want to develop or owners want to buy them. Make them ask...

                 1            To designate receiving areas is to up zone and add density. The county commission now and in the future
                              will never adhere to forcing developers to purchase entitlements for higher density development. We know
                              this from our experience in the pass. If we designate a receiving area, it will be a signal for higher density
                              development and will TDR's will not be supported legislatively.

                 1            Keep them at the resorts and off the Valley floor. Putting more at PM and NV is senseless as well, since
                              people must traverse the Valley floor to get to them.

                 1            Keep out of the critical wildlife areas and view sheds!! Also look at geologic hazards and slopes great than
                              20% ­ no development there. One receiving area would be a higher density node in the Monastery
                              development ­ support with a local package plant or Huntsville sewage treatment plant with pressurized or
                              interceptor line. Keep in mind that the treated effluent will need to be disposed through rapid infiltration basin ­
                              the number of locations this will work are limited.

                 1            In order to protect wildlife habitat and continue to maintain and provide the "rural" open space feel of the
                              Valley, receiving areas should be those areas that are within or adjacent to already developed areas and/or
                              in areas that that have been identified as having limited wildlife habitat value.

                 1            Perhaps around the Eden core. Huntsville has an interest in increasing density from 3 acre to 1 acre on
                              property they are annexing, but want to reduce density elsewhere.




141
 https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d       21/33
      8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report




142
                     14. In response to 9d, additional comments:


                      Count        Response

                      1            Density bonus units are already prohibited in Ogden Valley for future clustered developments.

                      1            Whether we use TDR or not, density bonus' should be a thing of the past.

                      1            Why would bonuses be available. Please clarify.

                      1            Zero additional density

                      1            I think the density bonuses are a bad idea. As the county you can require trails, impact fees to buy open
                                   space, whatever you want. STOP GIVING AWAY DENSITY. We have over a 2 year supply of land for sale.
                                   We don't need any more projects so STOP giving away Ogden Valley.

                      1            Bonuses increase the total number of units, exactly what we do not desire. Require clustering instead.

                      1            The largest de­facto cluster developments in the valley were initiated without bonus density ­­ Wolf Creek,
                                   Eden Hills, Green Hills, etc. History shows cluster developments will occur through savings to developers
                                   and market conditions without needing to offer bonus incentives. We just got rid of those added entitlements
                                   and density after 8 years of campaigning to do so. Let's don't set the clock back.

                      1            The concept of density bonuses seems to be fraught with the potential of abuse by heavy­monied
                                   developers, especially if they simply work with county officials instead of local residents and neighbors.

                      1            Upzoning and density bonuses should not change the TOTAL capped value. DRs could be purchased out of
                                   the transfer bank of DRs.

                      1            already done, the cluster ordinance has been changed to eliminate bonus densities. Only DRR­1 zone get
                                   bonus density




PLAN STUDY
      https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   22/33
 8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report

                 1            Density bonuses are developers' wet dreams. We need DISincentives to development, not incentives.

                 1            think....how much water do we have? can we sustain tons of condos? probably not. do not let the freaking
                              county commissioners who are ON THE TAKE rule us out here. look at the mess they made with powder
                              mountain. nuff said




                15. In response to 9e, additional comments:


                 Count        Response

                 1            Current land owners should have the same rights are the resort areas

                 1            It sounds like TDRs and Density bonuses are very similar

                 1            No more than 2 additional designated areas

                 1            Only with the approval of every landowner within 1000 feet.

                 1            TDR requires a willing seller and a willing buyer.

                 1            again , no idea what you're talking about

                 1            see 9a

                 1            Absolutely not, adding urban density on an landowner opt in basis would sprawl urban density and induce
                              demand throughout the valley. And if we choose receiving areas, which landowners are penalized or
                              enriched when the choice are made by the wise men.




143
 https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   23/33
      8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report




144
                     16. Additional comments for Question 9:


                      Count        Response

                      1            this survey is pretty weird

                      1            Density is handled better off the valley floor, in the higher elevations, combined with open space as required
                                   in the resort zones in the south end of the valley, before the impacts ripple northward across the valley floor.




                     17. Reduce Future Development Goals ­­ If development entitlement is reduced (question 1,
                     option c), the General Plan should focus on:Information Sheet Link

                                                                                                                                                      Rating

                      a. Development prohibition on sensitive lands (e.g., steep slopes, riparian areas, etc.).                                                      (4.70)
                                                                                                                                                      Count: 44
                                                                                                                                                      StdDev: 0.81
                                                                                                                                                      Max: 5

                      b. Downzoning.                                                                                                                                 (3.28)
                                                                                                                                                      Count: 39
                                                                                                                                                      StdDev: 1.62
                                                                                                                                                      Max: 5

                      c. Fee­simple land purchase.                                                                                                                   (3.43)
                                                                                                                                                      Count: 37




PLAN STUDY
                                                                                                                                                      StdDev: 1.28
      https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d                           24/33
 8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report

                                                                                                                                                 Max: 5

                 d. Purchase of development rights.                                                                                                             (3.69)
                                                                                                                                                 Count: 39
                                                                                                                                                 StdDev: 1.50
                                                                                                                                                 Max: 5

                 e. Purchase of conservation easements.                                                                                                         (4.39)
                                                                                                                                                 Count: 41
                                                                                                                                                 StdDev: 1.25
                                                                                                                                                 Max: 5

                 f. Encouraging and accommodating donation.                                                                                                     (4.18)
                                                                                                                                                 Count: 39
                                                                                                                                                 StdDev: 1.43
                                                                                                                                                 Max: 5




                18. In response to 17a, additional comments:


                 Count        Response

                 1            Already in place with steep slopes and sensitive lands ordinances

                 1            Complete Water Study before moving forward

                 1            ENCOURAGE TOURIZIM

                 1            I do not understand the question




145
 https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d                           25/33
      8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report




146
                      1            I thought most of this was already done.

                      1            This makes sense in any event. Who likes slides and obstructed views (besides developers)?

                      1            We need to encourage agricultural open space!!!

                      1            yes, no development in areas that are watersheds etc

                      1            If their is truly a hazard by developing in these areas then restrict development. Must be health or safety
                                   reason.

                      1            There are many areas in the valley with unstable soils including areas in Nordic Valley with steep slopes.
                                   Areas should be set aside to protect wild life and limit the impact development has on them. Perhaps a Valley
                                   Estuary site and Nature Parks.

                      1            It makes common sense to no develop on steep slopes, in the middle of riparian areas, too close to streams,
                                   or over develop on sensitive lands. Although some sensitive lands can support some level of development.
                                   We should not give resorts additional entitlements to do the very opposite ­­ over build on sensitive lands,
                                   without sufficient water, and wildlife reproductive corridors.

                      1            Development should not be allowed within sensitive wildlife habitats. Connectivity between habitats should be
                                   maintained and habitats should not be fragmented so wildlife has areas to move and thrive.




                     19. In response to 17b, additional comments:


                      Count        Response

                      1            Complete Water Study before moving forward




PLAN STUDY
      https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   26/33
 8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report

                 1            Downzoning should be used a last resort if the other methods don't work.

                 1            I am torn on the concept of downzoning.

                 1            I do not understand the question

                 1            Maybe call these areas "Estate Lot" zones.

                 1            Never

                 1            if you mean not letting powder mountain bill a city up there, yes

                 1            This one is tough, but large landowners must be disabused of their slavish "Property rights first, last, and
                              always" mentality and made to recognize the common good versus their selfish interests.

                 1            We did this in 1998. Took away 2/3 or the wealth of the large landowners and then 10 years later gave the
                              saved entitlements through legislative power the entitlements (1,800) to Powder Mountain developers. How
                              fair was that. Today they are asking for even more entitlements through auxiliary building (huts) while calling
                              for a cap and/or down zone again from large landowners. Totally unethical and immoral.

                 1            An overall downzone presented as a reduction to proposed development units. i.e. was zoned AV­3 on 100
                              acres. Could develop 33 units less roads plus current bonus for cluster etc. instead look at 100 acres could
                              develop 22 units and guessing they will cluster anyway (it is less expensive) and hopefully do some large
                              agricultural lots for horse property in each project.

                 1            There are a few areas that never should have been zoned high density to begin with (the Planning
                              Department knows where they are). These should be down zoned.

                 1            Down zoning is unfair to long time property owners unless they are compensated for their potential losses.
                              Perhaps set a minimum price for TDRs granted to them.

                 1            Downzoning is simply a rectification of the windfall entitlement handout that occurred decades ago. Land gets
                              downzoned all the time (see history of Marin County ­ up against growing population of San Francisco).




147
 https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   27/33
      8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report




148
                     20. In response to 17c, how should this be funded?


                      Count        Response

                      1            Who is a fee simple land purchase to be done by? Private entity? Goverment?

                      1            Bond

                      1            Bonding by the entire county.

                      1            Complete Water Study before moving forward

                      1            Do not understand this question

                      1            I do not understand the question

                      1            I need more information about what fee simple involves.

                      1            not sure what this is asking

                      1            Local fundraisers. Also events such as the Marathon and other local events could have a surcharge or area
                                   use tax similar to use impact taxes levied when visitors go to destination areas that impact local
                                   infrastructure. These funds could be set aside for fee simple land purchases that could then be placed in the
                                   land trust.

                      1            Something like RAMP. Everyone uses and at times abuses this area. Ogden uses it. Now let's protect it. It is
                                   so beautiful and needs to be cared for.

                      1            There should be a funding mechanism based upon a percentage of property sales. Also consider making the
                                   whole valley a Special Improvement District ­ providing a minimal taxing authority which could drive purchase




PLAN STUDY
                                   of lands and development rights.
      https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   28/33
 8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report



                 1            make whoever wants this party for it, don't make US pay for it. don't let the county be bamboozled into
                              funding it either. (think powder mountain)

                 1            County­wide assessments or RAMP­like taxes. The rest of the county (and other counties) use this Valley
                              as their playground; they should pay to sustain it. Huge increases in development fees would help, with the
                              proceeds allocated to density reduction.

                 1            A RAMP like tax on all Weber County citizens. A fee flat $2.00 from every user of Federal facilities
                              surrounding the valley. A fee on every lift ticket sold at the resorts. A 2% real estate transaction fee in
                              perpetuity at the resorts. A 10% fee on all gross revenue generated on special events held in Ogden Valley ­­
                              like the Ogden Marathon etc. The encouragement of donations. A $5.00 recording fee on all documents
                              recorded in Weber County. A voluntary $1.00, $2.00, $3.00, $4.00 or $5.00 option for patrons on every
                              restaurant bill ­­ similar to the suggested tip you see printed. We have a restaurant that will be starting this
                              program for the OVLT soon.




                21. In response to 17d, how should this be funded?


                 Count        Response

                 1            Bond

                 1            Bonding by the entire county.

                 1            I do not understand the question

                 1            I need more information about what development rights involves.




149
                 1            Ramp tax or voluntary contributions
 https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   29/33
      8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report




150
                      1            Same here.

                      1            The developer should fund it.

                      1            The marketability of the land should be the source of funding.

                      1            see above 20.

                      1            see response to #20

                      1            There should be a funding mechanism based upon a percentage of property sales. Also consider making the
                                   whole valley a Special Improvement District ­ providing a minimal taxing authority which could drive purchase
                                   of lands and development rights.

                      1            Developers can buy them from willing land owners. But this has to be written into the code and not be
                                   allowed to be deviated from. Developers will push hard against such a proposal.




                     22. In response to 17e, how should this be funded?


                      Count        Response

                      1            Bond and donation

                      1            Bonding by the entire county.

                      1            I do not understand the question

                      1            I need more information about what conservation easements involves.




PLAN STUDY
      https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   30/33
 8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report

                 1            Same here.

                 1            See my response to 17c

                 1            ditto^

                 1            see above 20.

                 1            There should be a funding mechanism based upon a percentage of property sales. Also consider making the
                              whole valley a Special Improvement District ­ providing a minimal taxing authority which could drive purchase
                              of lands and development rights.

                 1            What about tax incentives for landowners who donate conservation easements? What about bonding to
                              acquire sensitive lands?

                 1            Very much support conservation easements, but there has to be a way to raise money to achieve these
                              easements.

                 1            if the county were to have a small fund established with which to purchase TDRs from owners willing to
                              establish easements, then they could sell those TDRs to developers, the fund would break even.

                 1            Again, something like RAMP, fundraisers, or via a transaction fee. An impact fee per developed lot ($2000) a
                              transfer tax of a percent or flat fee for lower valued transactions. This would go toward purchasing
                              easements etc.




                23. In response to 17f, additional comments:


                 Count        Response




151
 https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   31/33
      8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report




152
                      1            As the Ogden Valley Land Trust does now.

                      1            I do not understand the question

                      1            We need to make it easy to place land into conservation easement or otherwise voluntarily reduce density
                                   rights. We also need to assure donors that what they give up won't pop up somewhere else (as it did when
                                   Powder Mountain was granted 2000 units after everyone else went through a down zone to reduce density.

                      1            There should be a funding mechanism based upon a percentage of property sales. Also consider making the
                                   whole valley a Special Improvement District ­ providing a minimal taxing authority which could drive purchase
                                   of lands and development rights and conservation easements ­ the money raised can also be used to
                                   provide a way to encourage donation and support enforcement of conservation easements.

                      1            from whom? make them pay for it themselves. When we bought our house, we didn't beg strangers to pay for
                                   it for us!

                      1            There you go. The stars show above show tell all. Purchasing density rights from landowners will be much
                                   cheaper than buying the land. This is the reason we need a retirement vault (not a bank) so entitlements can
                                   be retired in perpetuity and the land can be recorded as such ­­ protecting the entitlement reduction from
                                   future legislative whim.




                     24. Additional comments for Question 17:


                      Count        Response

                      1            Have community awareness events to help raise funds.

                      1            How this is all to be funded is a good question. I'll have to think about it more.




PLAN STUDY
      https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   32/33
 8/14/2015                                                                             Land Use Survey Summary Report

                 1            I do not understand the question

                 1            see above comments.

                 1            The big danger is future governmental dismantling of the land holdings either out of greed or stupidity. The
                              land/rights should be held by a public/private entity forever prohibited from divesting its holdings.




                URL Variable: snc


                 Count                        Response

                 1                            1433264541_556de19d8e0c52.64379880




153
 https://app.surveygizmo.com/reportsview/?key=261443­4812231­49f85f18ccaf881630dc08531da8a2f8&mode=html&shash=2d16237f7e727f1d385ac642a6dbfa9d   33/33
                Appendix E
                Zions Bank
      Fiscal Impact Analysis Report




154                               PLAN STUDY
                                               Weber County| Unincorporated Ogden Valley Fiscal Impacts



Fiscal Impacts
The following analysis addresses the revenues generated in the unincorporated areas of the Upper
Ogden Valley as well as the expenses necessary to support municipal-type services in the area.
Revenues and associated County expenditures to provide municipal-type services in the unincor-
porated areas of Weber County are included in the Weber County Municipal Services Fund.1

Population & Housing
The population in unincorporated Weber County is approximately 14,556.2 The population in the
Upper Ogden Valley is approximately 7,009, which is 48 percent of the unincorporated population3
and 2.9 percent of Weber County’s population.

There are approximately 3,877 housing units in the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Val-
ley. A significant number of those housing units, approximately 41 percent, are second homes.

TABLE 1: DEMOGRAPHIC AND HOUSING INFORMATION

Description                                          Population          Housing Units               Households
Weber County                                           238,422                  87,105                    79,525
Unincorporated Weber County                             14,556                   6,996                     4,882
Unincorporated Upper Ogden Valley                        7,009                   3,877                     2,305
Source: Weber County Database, Census Data, Weber County Ogden Valley Zoning Density Update


Revenues
Projected revenues from the following five general fund revenue categories are considered in this
analysis:
    1. Tax Revenues
    2. Licenses and Permits
    3. Charges for Services
    4. Fines and Forfeitures
    5. Intergovernmental Revenue

Tax Revenues
Property Taxes - The taxable value in the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley is
$909,843,910.4 Based on the County’s municipal services property tax rate of 0.000175 for the un-
incorporated areas, the property tax revenue from the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden
Valley is $159,223.

TABLE 2: PROPERTY TAX
Description                                                                                               Amount
Total Taxable Value                                                                                 $909,843,910
Municipal Type Services                                                                                 0.000175


1
  FY 2014 Municipal Services Fund data was used for this analysis.
2
  American Fact Finder (2009 – 2013)
3
  2013 Weber County Parcel Database - number of housing units in the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley
* 1.81 (number of persons per housing unit from the Weber County Ogden Valley Zoning Density Update, 2010)
4
  Weber County Tax Database, 2014

                                                                                                                   1
Zions Bank Public Finance | December 2015                                                                              155
                                                     Weber County| Unincorporated Ogden Valley Fiscal Impacts



      Description                                                                                                     Amount
      Total Property Tax Revenue                                                                                     $159,223
      Sales & Use Tax Revenue - Sales tax revenues are distributed based on (1) population and (2)
      point of sale (POS).

           1. Population - Based on information provided by the Utah State Tax Commission, the annual
              average per capita sales tax distribution in the unincorporated areas of Weber County in
              2014 was approximately $87.59. Based on a population of approximately 7,009, the popu-
              lation portion of the sales tax distribution is $613,918.

      TABLE 3: SALES TAX – POPULATION DISTRIBUTION

      Description                                                                                                     Amount
      Per Person Distribution                                                                                          $87.59
      Upper Ogden Valley Population                                                                                      7,009
      Sales Tax Revenue - Population Distribution                                                                    $613,918


           2. Point of Sale (POS) - The estimated POS sales tax revenue in the unincorporated Upper
              Ogden Valley of $378,474 is based on information provided by the State Tax Commission.5

      The total sales tax revenue for the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley is approxi-
      mately $992,392 less fees and reductions of approximately $13,8936 for a total of $978,499.

      TABLE 4: TOTAL SALES TAX

      Description                                                                                                     Amount
      Sales Tax Revenue – Population Distribution                                                                    $613,918
      Sales Revenue - POS                                                                                            $378,474
      Sub-Total                                                                                                      $992,392
      Less: Fees and Other Deductions:                                                                                $13,893
      Total Sales Tax Revenue                                                                                        $978,499


      Franchise Tax Revenue – Franchise tax revenue is comprised of Cable TV contract revenue. Fran-
      chise tax revenue was allocated based on the number of housing units in the unincorporated areas
      of the Upper Ogden Valley compared to the unincorporated areas of the Lower Ogden Valley.7 The
      amount of franchise revenue attributable to the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley is
      $14,384.

      TABLE 5: FRANCHISE TAX
      Description                                                                                                       Amount


      5
        Based on information provided by the Utah State Tax Commission, it was not possible to determine the POS location
      (upper or lower valley) for all taxable sales occurring in the unincorporated areas of Weber County. Therefore, the per-
      cent of known taxable sales occurring in the Upper Ogden Valley compared to the Lower Ogden Valley (52%) was used
      to allocate taxable sales where the POS could not be determined between the upper and lower valleys. The County was
      comfortable with the total sales tax allocation between the upper and lower valley.
      6
        Calculated using the average percent fees and deductions for Unincorporated Weber County of 1.4 percent
      7
        This is an estimate as the County is unable to break-out the exact amount of Cable TV franchise revenue attributable to
      the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley.

                                                                                                                                 2
156   Zions Bank Public Finance | December 2015                                                                         PLAN STUDY
                                             Weber County| Unincorporated Ogden Valley Fiscal Impacts



Description                                                                                                   Amount
Total Franchise Revenue8                                                                                      $25,981
Total Housing Units                                                                                             6,996
Franchise Revenue per Housing Unit                                                                              $3.71
Housing Units in the Unincorporated Upper Ogden Valley                                                          3,877
Total Franchise Revenue                                                                                       $14,384


Motor Vehicle Fee-In Lieu - Motor vehicle fee-in-lieu revenue is calculated on a per household basis
of approximately $3.40 per household and is projected to be approximately $7,837 for the unin-
corporated areas in the Upper Ogden Valley.

TABLE 6: MOTOR VEHICLE FEE-IN-LIEU
Description                                                                                                  Amount
Motor Vehicle Fee-In-Lieu                                                                                    $16,612
Total Households in Unincorporated Area                                                                        4,882
Current MV in-lieu per household                                                                               $3.40
Households in Unincorporated Ogden Valley                                                                      2,305
Total Motor Vehicle Fee-In-Lieu                                                                               $7,837


Other Tax Revenue – Other tax revenue of $2,796 allocated to the unincorporated areas of the Up-
per Ogden Valley is comprised of delinquent taxes and interest on delinquent taxes.9

Licenses, Permits & Fees
Business Licenses – Business license fee revenue attributable to the Upper Ogden Valley of
$45,036 is estimated by the County to be approximately 90 percent of total business license reve-
nue received from the unincorporated areas.

TABLE 7: BUSINESS LICENSE FEES
Description                                                                                                  Amount
Total Unincorporated Business License Fee Revenue                                                            $50,040
Percent Attributable to Upper Ogden Valley                                                                      90%
Total Business License Fee Revenue                                                                           $45,036


Building Permits - Approximately $169,595 or 61.5 percent10 of total unincorporated building permit
revenue is attributable to the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley.

TABLE 8: BUILDING PERMITS

Description                                                                                                  Amount
Total Unincorporated Building Permit Revenue                                                                $275,765
Percent Attributable to Upper Ogden Valley                                                                     61.5%


8
  Weber County Municipal Services Budget FY 2014
9
  45% of delinquent taxes and interest on delinquent taxes was allocated to the unincorporated area of the Upper Ogden
Valley as 45% of the total property tax revenue for the unincorporated area is attributable to the Upper Ogden Valley.
10
   Weber County Planning Department

                                                                                                                       3
Zions Bank Public Finance | December 2015                                                                                  157
                                                    Weber County| Unincorporated Ogden Valley Fiscal Impacts



      Description                                                                                         Amount
      Total Building Permit Revenue                                                                      $169,595


      Animal Licenses – The County Animal Services Department provides animal services to the unin-
      corporated areas as well as several contract cities within the County. Total animal license revenue
      of $6,154 attributable to the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley is based on the ani-
      mal license revenue per household for all households served of $2.67.

      TABLE 9: ANIMAL LICENSES

      Description                                                                                         Amount
      Animal Licenses Revenue                                                                             $45,248
      Total Households Served by Animal Control11                                                          16,956
      Animal License Revenue per HH                                                                            $2.67
      Primary Residences in Unincorporated Upper Ogden Valley                                                  2,305
      Total Animal License Revenue                                                                         $6,154


      Charges for Services
      Zoning & Subdivision Fees – A review by the County of the unincorporated zoning & subdivision
      fee revenue showed that approximately 61.5 percent ($25,871) of the total unincorporated zoning
      and subdivision fee revenues are attributable to the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Val-
      ley.12

      TABLE 10: ZONING & SUBDIVISION FEES
      Description                                                                                         Amount
      Total Unincorporated Zoning & Subdivision Fee Revenue                                               $42,066
      Percent Attributable to Unincorporated Upper Ogden Valley                                            61.5%
      Total Zoning & Subdivision Fees                                                                     $25,871


      Plan Review Fees – A review by the County of the unincorporated plan review fee revenues showed
      that approximately 67 percent ($58,366) of total plan review fee revenues for the unincorporated
      areas of the County are attributable to the unincorporated areas of the upper Ogden Valley.13

      TABLE 11: PLAN REVIEW FEES
      Description                                                                                         Amount
      Total Unincorporated Plan Review Fee Revenue                                                        $87,113
      Percent Attributable to Unincorporated Upper Ogden Valley                                                 67%
      Total Plan Review Fees                                                                              $58,366


      Sewer Fees – Sewer fees received from the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley are
      $16,207.14



      11
         Includes unincorporated areas and contract cities.
      12
         Source: Weber County Planning Department
      13
         Source: Weber County Planning Department
      14
         Source: Weber County Municipal Services Budget supplementary worksheet

                                                                                                                       4
158   Zions Bank Public Finance | December 2015                                                            PLAN STUDY
                                              Weber County| Unincorporated Ogden Valley Fiscal Impacts



Other Miscellaneous Services – Other miscellaneous service fees includes the sale of photos &
maps, engineering sales and permits, weed eradication charges and other miscellaneous building
inspector fees. The sale of photos and maps revenue of $70 was calculated based on a per popu-
lation revenue of approximately $0.01 per person. Other miscellaneous services revenue of
$10,780 was estimated by the County to be approximately 67 percent of the total miscellaneous
services revenue in the unincorporated areas. Total miscellaneous services revenue attributable to
the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley is $10,850.

Fines & Forfeitures – Fines and forfeitures includes revenue from both criminal and traffic citations.
There were a total of 980 traffic citations issued in the unincorporated areas of the County in 2014.
Approximately 48 percent or 466 of those citations were issued in the unincorporated areas of the
Upper Ogden Valley.15 The Sherriff’s department estimates approximately 25 percent of total unin-
corporated criminal citations were issued in the unincorporated areas of the upper Ogden Valley.
Total fines and forfeitures revenue attributable to the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden
Valley is approximately $22,036.

Intergovernmental Revenues
Intergovernmental revenues are comprised of federal and state grants, federal payments in lieu of
property tax, Class B road fund revenues and the state mineral lease allotment.

Federal and State Grants - Federal and state grant money includes federal funds of $54,374 and
state grants from the Forest Reserve Fund of $36,356.

Federal Payments in Lieu of Property Taxes - Federal payments in lieu of property taxes in the unin-
corporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley total approximately $131,390.16

Class B Road Funds - Class B & C road funds are distributed based on both road miles and popu-
lation. Class B road funds revenue for the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley is cal-
culated using the FY 2014 per capita distribution of $21.11 and $559.55 per weighted road mile.
There are approximately 209 paved road miles and 11 gravel road miles in the unincorporated ar-
eas of the Upper Ogden Valley that are maintained by the County. The total class B road funds
allocated to the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley are $745,000.

TABLE 12: CLASS B ROAD FUNDS
                                           $ Amount                                Weighted17
Description                                                 Population                             Amount
                                             per Unit                              Road Miles
Per Capita                                    $21.11             7,009                            $147,960
Per Weighted Road Mile                       $559.55                                    1,067     $597,040
Total Class B Road Funds                                                                          $745,000

State Mineral Lease Allotment – The County estimates that approximately 50 percent of the total
State mineral lease allotment of $1,663 should be allocated to the unincorporated areas of the Up-
per Ogden Valley.

TABLE 13: STATE MINERAL LEASE ALLOTMENT



15
   Source: Weber County Sherriff’s Department
16
   Source: Weber County
17
   Paved miles are given a weight of 5 and gravel roads are given a weight of 2.

                                                                                                             5
Zions Bank Public Finance | December 2015                                                                        159
                                                        Weber County| Unincorporated Ogden Valley Fiscal Impacts



      Description                                                                                              Amount
      Total Unincorporated State Mineral Lease Allotment                                                        $1,663
      Percent Attributable to Unincorporated Upper Ogden Valley                                                    50%
      Total State Mineral Lease Allotment                                                                          $832


      Payments from Local Units in Lieu of Taxes - The County estimates that approximately 50 percent
      of the payments from local units in lieu of taxes of $1,145 should be allocated to the unincorpo-
      rated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley.

      TABLE 14: PAYMENTS FROM LOCAL UNITS IN LIEU OF TAXES

      Description                                                                                              Amount
      Payments from Local Units in Lieu of Taxes                                                                $1,145
      Percent Attributable to Unincorporated Upper Ogden Valley                                                    50%
      Total Payments from Local Units in Lieu of Taxes                                                             $573


      Miscellaneous Revenues and Other Financing Sources
      Miscellaneous revenues and other financing sources include interest earnings. The County has
      indicated that 50 percent of the interest earning should be allocated to the unincorporated areas of
      the Upper Ogden Valley. Total miscellaneous revenues and other financing sources allocated to
      the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley reach $784.

      TABLE 15: INTEREST EARNINGS
      Description                                                                                              Amount
      Interest Earnings                                                                                         $1,568
      Percent Attributable to Unincorporated Upper Ogden Valley                                                    50%
      Total Interest Earning                                                                                       $784


      Total Revenues
      Total revenues for municipal-type services attributable to the unincorporated areas of the Upper
      Ogden Valley are $2,486,164.

      TABLE 16: TOTAL REVENUES

                                                                                               Unincorporated Areas of
      Category
                                                                                                   Upper Ogden Valley

      Taxes:
      Current Property Taxes                                                                                 $159,223
      Sales & Use Taxes                                                                                      $978,499
      Motor Vehicle Fee-In Lieu                                                                                $7,837
      Franchise                                                                                               $14,384
      Other Tax Revenue                                                                                        $2,796
      Total Taxes                                                                                          $1,162,739

      Licenses, Permits & Fees:
      Business Licenses                                                                                       $45,036
      Building Permits                                                                                       $169,596


                                                                                                                          6
160   Zions Bank Public Finance | December 2015                                                                  PLAN STUDY
                                             Weber County| Unincorporated Ogden Valley Fiscal Impacts



                                                                                    Unincorporated Areas of
Category
                                                                                        Upper Ogden Valley

Animal Licenses                                                                                     $6,154
Total Licenses, Permits & Fees                                                                    $220,786

Charges for Services:
Zoning & Subdivision Fees                                                                          $25,871
Plan Review Fee                                                                                    $58,366
Sewer Fees                                                                                         $16,207
Other Misc. Services                                                                               $10,850
Total Charges for Services                                                                        $111,294

Fines & Forfeitures:
Fines & Forfeitures                                                                                $22,036
Total Fines & Forfeitures                                                                          $22,036

Intergovernmental Revenue:
Federal and State Grants                                                                           $90,730
Federal Payments in Lieu of Property Taxes                                                        $131,390
Class B Road Funds                                                                                $745,000
State Mineral Lease Allotment                                                                         $832
Payments from Local Units in Lieu of Taxes                                                            $573
Total Intergovernmental Revenue                                                                   $968,525

Miscellaneous Revenue & Other Financing Sources:
Interest Earnings                                                                                     $784
Total Miscellaneous Revenue & Other Financing Sources                                                 $784

Total Revenues                                                                                  $2,486,164



Expenditures
Expenditures in the municipal services budget for the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden
Valley area fall into the following four categories:

    (1) General Government
    (2) Public Safety
    (3) Streets and Public Improvements
    (4) Municipal Services

General Government
General Government expenses include engineering, planning and building inspection.

Engineering - Total engineering expenses for the unincorporated areas of the County for FY 2014
totaled $95,000. The County estimates approximately $63,650 which is 67 percent of expenditures,
is attributable to the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley.



                                                                                                              7
Zions Bank Public Finance | December 2015                                                                         161
                                                   Weber County| Unincorporated Ogden Valley Fiscal Impacts



      Planning – The County Planning Department does not break-out time sheets based on location. As
      such, planning expenditures for the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley were based
      on estimates by the Planning Department. The Planning Department estimates that approximately
      75 percent of all planning related expenditures are attributable to the unincorporated areas of the
      Upper Ogden Valley.


      TABLE 17: PLANNING

      Description                                                                                        Amount
      Total Unincorporated Planning Related Expenditures                                                $795,873
      Percent Attributable to Unincorporated Upper Ogden Valley                                               75%
      Total Planning Expenditures                                                                       $596,905


      Building Inspection – Two building inspectors are assigned to the unincorporated areas of the Up-
      per Ogden Valley and one building inspector is assigned to the unincorporated areas of the Lower
      Ogden Valley. Therefore, 67 percent of building inspection expenditures is allocated to the unin-
      corporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley.

      TABLE 18: BUILDING INSPECTIONS
      Description                                                                                        Amount
      Total Unincorporated Building Inspection Related Expenditures                                     $417,596
      Percent Attributable to Unincorporated Upper Ogden Valley                                               67%
      Total Building Inspection Expenditures                                                            $279,789


      Public Safety
      Public safety services for the unincorporated areas includes municipal-type police services provid-
      ed by the County Sheriff’s Department and animal services provided by the County Animal Ser-
      vices Department.

      Police Services – A review of the 8,821 calls for service in the unincorporated areas of the upper
      and lower valleys showed that 2,979 calls for service occurred in the Upper Ogden Valley and
      5,842 calls occurred in the Lower Ogden Valley. The Sherriff’s Department indicated there was no
      disproportionate cost associated with calls for police services in the unincorporated areas of the
      Upper Ogden Valley compared to the unincorporated areas of the Lower Ogden Valley. Therefore,
      33.8 percent18 of the Sherriff’s Department expenditures for municipal-type police services were
      allocated to the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley.

      TABLE 19: SHERIFF DEPARTMENT
      Description                                                                                        Amount
      Total Unincorporated Sherriff Expenditures                                                        $960,000
      Percent Attributable to Unincorporated Upper Ogden Valley                                           33.8%
      Total Sherriff Department Expenditures                                                            $324,480


      Animal Control – The County provides animal control services to the unincorporated areas of the
      County as well as several contract cities within the County. The Animal Services Department indi-

      18
           2,979/8,821 = 33.8 percent

                                                                                                                    8
162   Zions Bank Public Finance | December 2015                                                           PLAN STUDY
                                            Weber County| Unincorporated Ogden Valley Fiscal Impacts



cated there were no disproportionate costs associated with animal control services to the unincor-
porated areas of the Upper Valley. As such, the total animal control expenditures in the municipal
services budget (which includes contract cities) were divided by the total households served for a
cost per household of $11.26. The cost per household was multiplied by the number of house-
holds in the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley of 2,305 for total animal control ex-
penditures of $25,954.


TABLE 20: ANIMAL CONTROL

Description                                                                                       Amount
Total Animal Control Expenditures                                                                $190,943
Total Households Served by Animal Control                                                          16,956
Cost per Household                                                                                 $11.26
Primary Residences in the Unincorporated Upper Ogden Valley                                            2,305
Total Animal Control Expenditures                                                                 $25,954


Animal Shelter – Animal shelter services are available for residents in the unincorporated areas of
the County as well as several cities within in the County. The Animal Services Department indicated
there were no disproportionate costs associated with animal shelter services to the unincorporated
areas of the Upper Ogden Valley compared to unincorporated areas in the Lower Ogden Valley.
Only the animal shelter expenditures associated with the unincorporated areas of the County are
included in the municipal services budget. As such, the total animal shelter expenditures for the
unincorporated areas were divided by the number of households in the unincorporated areas for a
cost per household. The cost per household was then multiplied by the number of households in
the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley for a total cost of $23,511.

TABLE 21: ANIMAL SHELTER

Description                                                                                       Amount
Total Unincorporated Animal Shelter Expenditures                                                  $49,792
Total Households                                                                                       4,882
Cost per Household                                                                                 $10.20
Primary Residences in the Unincorporated Upper Ogden Valley                                            2,305
Total Animal Shelter Expenditures                                                                 $23,511


Streets and Public Improvements
Streets and public improvements include municipal-type roads, sewer and weed control expendi-
tures.

Roads and Highways – The County Roads Department was not able to break out expenditures for
the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley compared to the unincorporated areas in the
Lower Ogden Valley. Therefore, the County felt the best way to allocate expenditures was based
on the percent of road miles in each area. The County maintains 220 road miles in the Upper Og-
den Valley and 211 road miles in the Lower Ogden Valley. As such, 51 percent of the roads and
highways expenditures are allocated to the Upper Ogden Valley and 49 percent to the Lower Og-
den Valley.

TABLE 22: ROADS AND HIGHWAYS


                                                                                                               9
Zions Bank Public Finance | December 2015                                                                          163
                                                   Weber County| Unincorporated Ogden Valley Fiscal Impacts



      Description                                                                                                  Amount
      Total Roads & Highways Expenditures for County Maintained Roads                                           $2,519,182
      Percent Road Miles in Upper Valley                                                                              51%
      Total Roads & Highways Expenditures                                                                       $1,284,783


      Sewer Costs – Sewer costs for the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley are $1,380.19
      Weed Control – Weed control costs for the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley were
      allocated based on the same percentage as the roads and highways costs. Weed control costs
      allocated to the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley totals $41,233.

      Municipal Services
      The unincorporated areas of the County are charged for the direct costs of the municipal-type ser-
      vices provided by the County’s General Government which include the County Attorney, Human
      Resources, Information Technology, etc. Total charges to the unincorporated areas for these ser-
      vices in FY 2014 were $100,000. Approximately $48,152 of these expenditures is allocated to the
      unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley.20

      Total expenditures for municipal-type services allocated to the unincorporated areas of the Upper
      Ogden Valley total $2,692,573.21

      TABLE 23: TOTAL EXPENDITURES

                                                                                                  Unincorporated Areas of
      Category
                                                                                                      Upper Ogden Valley

      General Government:
      Engineering                                                                                                $63,650
      Planning                                                                                                  $596,905
      Building Inspection                                                                                       $279,789
      Total General Government                                                                                  $940,344

      Public Safety:
      Sherriff                                                                                                  $324,480
      Animal Control                                                                                             $25,954
      Animal Shelter                                                                                             $23,511
      Total Public Safety                                                                                       $373,945

      Streets and Public Improvements:
      Roads and Highways                                                                                       $1,284,783
      Sewer Division                                                                                              $4,116
      Weed Department                                                                                            $41,233
      Total Streets and Public Improvements                                                                    $1,330,132

      Municipal Services:


      19
         FY 2014 Weber County Municipal Service Fund
      20
         Source: Weber County
      21
         Capital projects are funded on a case by case basis with grant money and general fund expenditures.


                                                                                                                            10
164   Zions Bank Public Finance | December 2015                                                                     PLAN STUDY
                                            Weber County| Unincorporated Ogden Valley Fiscal Impacts




                                                                                   Unincorporated Areas of
Category
                                                                                       Upper Ogden Valley

Municipal Services Fund                                                                           $48,152
Total Municipal Services                                                                          $48,152

Total Expenditures                                                                             $2,692,573




Revenues Compared to Expenditures
A comparison of revenues in the unincorporated areas of the Upper Ogden Valley compared to
expenditures for municipal-type services shows that revenues are approximately 92 percent of ex-
penditures.
TABLE 24: REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES

Description                                                                                       Amount
Total Revenues                                                                                 $2,486,164
Total Expenditures                                                                             $2,692,573
Revenues Less Expenditures:                                                                     -$206,409
Revenues as Percent of Expenditures:                                                                92.3%




                                                                                                             11
Zions Bank Public Finance | December 2015                                                                         165
          Appendix F
      Water Subcommittee
      Meeting Summaries




166                        PLAN STUDY
MEETING SUMMARY
Ogden Valley General Plan Water Sub-Committee
Meeting #1 - Kick-off

December 17, 2014
3:00 – 5:00 pm
Huntsville Library Auditorium


Participants
Bill White, Huntsville Town                         Brandon Thueson, Weber Fire District
Ron Gleason                                         Mark Anderson, Weber Basin Water Conservancy
Ryan Jolley, Jones & DeMille Eng.                   District
Ted MIckelsen, Jones & DeMille Eng.
Ross Hansen, Division of Water Rights               Weber County
Rob Thomas, Wolf Creek Water & Sewer                Sean Wilkinson
Scott Richardson, Huntsville Town                   Charlie Ewert
Kent Jones, Division of Water Rights                Scott Mendoza
Miranda Menzies, Work Creek Water & Sewer
Kenton Moffett, Ogden City                          Consultant Team (Logan Simpson Design)
Dennis Shaw, Eden Water Works                       Buck Swaney
Pen Hollist, Liberty Pipeline Company               Krissy Nielsen


Introduction
Goals of this subcommittee:
     To produce a narrative on the challenges and functions of water in the Valley.
     To gain an understanding of trends on water availability and quality.
     To produce recommendations on water governance.

Dialogue
Quality
     General consensus is that current water quality is excellent. The main concern is that as more
        development comes into the Valley, it will impact the water quality.
     The group would like to see a more formal relationship between Huntsville and Weber County
        to ensure development doesn’t impact water quality conditions in Huntsville.



                                                                                                       167
      Quantity and Geology-
          Huntsville and other communities are having a difficult time finding additional sources of water.
             Currently, Huntsville relies on the spring by the Monastery, and does not have adequate water
             to manage peak demand (and is out of compliance with regulations).
          Fire Department experiences issues with water supply and access. It is difficult to know if there
             is enough water available, and building codes require significant flows that valley water systems
             can struggle to supply.
          Miranda Menzies provided a handout and explained the geology of the Valley. Ryan Jolley
             contributed with a handout on specific capacity. Because of geological conditions explained by
             Miranda, ground water is not a reliable option for large-scale development. The geology of the
             Valley is not high permeability, except for in the few gravel areas. This means that majority of
             wells draw low flows. The water is there, but it is not highly productive. (handouts are attached)
          Anecdotally, shallow wells are going dry. This may be because of changes in irrigation practices.
             This is contradicted by some other monitoring data, but it isn’t known whether the contradiction
             is because deep and permeable wells are being monitored and not shallow ones.

      How many units can the Valley support?
          This question cannot be answered without data, but Miranda did offer a number of around
            10,000 based on her knowledge.
          What is plan B if we cannot support the level of development occurring? Some indication that
            the simplest solution might be to convert agricultural water into municipal water.
          Look into how much water is stored vs. obligated at Weber Basin. Exchange contracts with
            Weber Basin need to be considered carefully, and within the context of available groundwater.

      What is the situation with “water on paper”?
         We need to collect the number of how many have been issued.
         There is no easy way to show how many are being put to beneficial use.
         Best estimate reported of decree of water rights was 33,000 acre feet.

      Governance
      Best estimate is 83 individual water companies. Water companies are willing and do work together, but
      are not ready to give up individual ownership. Additionally, it was discussed if the reason so many water
      companies exist is because of the way the system is set up impedes smaller companies from joining
      larger ones, or if it is because of the culture.
           One idea: Change in the way the developments are approved at Weber County. A “will-serve”
              letter required before development can occur. This would require some sort of a water
              company moratorium – no more water companies – to be workable.

168                                                                                                  PLAN STUDY
Data
There is no consolidated data repository. It would be valuable to gather quantitative data and at some
point compare it to historical data. The initial study is needed and then a sustainability plan with data.

Action Items and Next Steps
Committee members were asked to volunteer in an effort to produce key information summaries on the
following topics:
     1. Existing Conditions for Water Quantity- Each water company present to write a short one or two
        paragraph summary on their existing conditions.
     2. Existing Conditions on Water Quality- Logan Simpson will contact Dr. Sorenson from USU and
        extract data from the Avery 1994 article suggested by Pen.
     3. Governance- Weber Basin will write up a short summary on how their exchange system works.
        Otherwise, the group felt that is was not necessary to produce a write up on the current
        governance structure.
     4. A comprehensive, valley-wide water balance study like the one in Morgan County is desired.
        There also needs to be a monitoring program to make the initial study trend worthy. This was
        also discussed as a “ground water development plan”. LSD and Weber County to discuss this
        detail.


The Committee will meet again on January 28th at 2:00 pm at the Huntsville Library.




                                                                                                             169
                                                                                                             3
 Handout 1




170          PLAN STUDY
Handout 2




            171
      MEETING SUMMARY
      Ogden Valley General Plan Water Sub-Committee
      Meeting #2

      January 28, 2014
      2:00 – 4:00 pm
      Huntsville Library Auditorium

      Participants
      Bill White, Huntsville Town                                                   Mark Anderson, Weber Basin Water Conservancy District
      Ron Gleason                                                                   Janae Wallace, Utah Geological Survey
      Ted Mickelsen, Jones & DeMille Eng.                                           Mike Lowe, Utah Geological Survey
      Ross Hansen, Division of Water Rights                                         Stefan Kirby, Utah Geological Survey
      Scott Richardson, Huntsville Town                                             Dana Shuler, Weber County Engineering
      Miranda Menzies, Wolf Creek Water & Sewer                                     Charlie Ewert, Weber County Planning
      Kenton Moffett, Ogden City
      Dennis Shaw, Eden Water Works                                                 Consultant Team (Logan Simpson Design)
      Pen Hollist, Liberty Pipeline Company                                         Jim Carter
      Brandon Thueson, Weber Fire District                                          Krissy Nielsen


      1. Follow-up on last month’s action items
      Krissy Nielsen noted that the documents submitted in response to the action items from the Committee’s last meeting that
      were attached to the meeting agenda include: a brief description of water quality; a description of the replacement water
      policy of the Weber Basin Water Conservancy District prepared by Mark Anderson; and a description of the hydrogeology of the
      Ogden Valley prepared by Miranda Menzies. Please see the attached documents provided for this agenda item.

      Dialogue
              The group consensus is that water quality is not a limiting factor for additional development, but that additional
               development could threaten current high water quality if not well managed.
              The group discussed water quantity, noting the differences among physical water, water rights, water service and
               water infrastructure. The consensus is that there currently is abundant physical water* in the Ogden Valley and water
               rights to divert as much as 33,000 acre feet annually. That water, if all converted to culinary uses, could support
               between 40,000 and 60,000 residential units in the valley. The group feels that policies should not encourage
               conversion of water use to culinary purposes in order to continue the agricultural operations that contribute to the
               character of the valley. Administrative constraints would make 100% conversion impossible in any event.
                    *Abundant physical water is mostly in the form of surface water in Pineview Reservoir, and the constraints (legal/water rights and engineering)
                    on using this for culinary purposes are not defined at the moment.
              Replacement water and exchanges are a method for a “Petitioner” to transfer water rights it owns to the WBWCD in
               exchange for a water right to be exercised on or near the petitioner’s property by drilling a new water well. High-
               capacity water wells are difficult to site and complete in the valley due to hydrogeological constraints and the
               administrative process to gain authority from the State Engineer to construct a new well.
              Culinary water service is provided by as many as 83 individual water companies in the valley. Each company has a
               limit on the number of customers it can serve, based on its public water system certification. Wolf Creek Water &
               Sewer reports it is currently serving 1,378 customers out of an authorized 1,589 capacity, and so has another 211
               units available. Eden Water Works is serving 450 customers out of a capacity of 700, leaving 250 units available.
               Huntsville Town is serving 444 customers out of a capacity of 678, with 234 units available. Apart from authorized
               capacity, water service companies are limited by the capacity of their water sources, and several have experienced
172            deliverability problems in the past, despite having fewer customers than their authorized capacity.          PLAN STUDY
         Water service is also constrained by geography (finite service areas) and by groundwater hydrology (high-capacity
          water wells are not a given in many areas of the valley)
         Water service has also been constrained by the cost of infrastructure (wells, diversions, treatment facilities and
          pipelines).

2. Update on Miranda’s research
The committee reviewed the Hydrogeology of Ogden Valley report prepared by Miranda Menzies, and in light of the dialog,
identified the main water supply issues in the Ogden Valley. They include:
         The overall water budget of the valley (inflow, consumption, and outflow) is not well understood.
         The hydrogeology of the valley offers a limited number of areas where new high-capacity water wells are likely to be
          successful.
         The administrative approval process for new high-capacity wells is expected to become more difficult, as the best
          “target” areas are small and generally already have water wells.
         The proliferation of small water companies places the County at risk of having to repair or replace failing systems.
         The proliferation of individual wells and septic systems has the potential to adversely affect both existing and new
          water sources.

Given the constraints and based on currently available information, it was estimated by the group that groundwater might
support a total of 7,000 - 9,000 units in the Ogden Valley. The group generally agreed that water policies should encourage
water service from existing companies rather than new companies; require that new water sources be developed and tested or
that the developer obtain a will-serve commitment from an existing water provider before property is platted; and conduct a
basin-wide water study to quantify the valley’s water budget and identify potential groundwater source areas.

3. Mike Lowe and Stefan Kirby from Utah Geological Survey
Mike and Stefan presented a proposal, the Hydrogeologic Study of Ogden Valley, Weber County, Utah, with Emphasis on
Development of a Water Budget, to:

    (1)    “Characterize the hydrogeology of the Ogden Valley drainage basin as it pertains to the occurrence and flow of
          groundwater, with emphasis on delineating the thickness of the valley-fill aquifer and determining the water-yielding
          characteristics of fractured-rock aquifers in the study area.

    (2) Develop a water budget for the drainage basin that includes components of recharge and discharge.

It was discussed and determined that this study is crucial for Ogden Valley moving forward. Prior studies are out of date and
only considered the Valley floor. This study will use new technology and consider the entire Ogden Valley.

Weber County is working to secure funding to move forward with the study. The study timeline would be July 1, 2015 – June 30,
2017 (two years). In reference to the General Plan preparation, Mike and Stefan reported that they may be able to have some
preliminary information ready September. Moving forward, it was determined that the General Plan will consider water
availability, but will not use it as an ultimate constraint. As soon as the preliminary information is available from Utah
Geological Survey, the draft plan will be revisited to ensure it follows the general baseline information provided.

4. Next Steps and Adjourn
The committee is willing to act as a resource to the General Plan Update process to vet water related content and ideas
through.



                                                                                                                                  173

                                                                                                                                 2
 Handout 1

      Ogden Valley General Plan Water Sub-Committee



      Replacement Water

      January 23, 2015

      By: Mark Anderson

      Assistant General Manager

      Weber Basin Water Conservancy District



      I was asked to write a short summary on how replacement water and exchange process
      works. First of all the concept of replacement water is given in the state code, section
      73-3-23, which in simple terms allows for a junior appropriator to withdraw underground
      water and replace it with another source of water which is released to make whole
      senior appropriators. The junior appropriator must apply and receive approval from the
      state engineer. In all cases replacement shall be at the sole cost and expense of the
      applicant and subject to such rules and regulations as the state engineer may prescribe.

      Weber Basin Water Conservancy District (“District”) considers replacement water
      allotment requests from individuals, or entities such as a mutual water company,
      homeowners association, partnership, corporation, limited liability company or other
      public or private entity (“Petitioner”) for the right to use replacement water for property
      owned or served by the Petitioner. Replacement water contracts obtained from the
      District cannot be used for diversion of water until the Petitioner files and receives an
      approved Exchange of water right from the Division of Water Rights. With the approved
      Exchange water right the Petitioner is authorized to drill a well to divert underground
      water.

      Exchange water rights may become appurtenant to land on approval of the application,
      and the underlining Replacement water contracts are tied to the Exchange approval and
      must be kept current to avoid canceling the Exchange. The District does not sell new
      Replacement water contracts in areas where the Utah State Engineer has issued a
      groundwater moratorium. On a case by case basis when the public is benefited and
      upon compliance with District criteria, the District may consider transfer of Replacement
      water contracts to new service providers, other lands or new owners of the same land.




174                                                                                        PLAN STUDY
Handout 1

 DRAFT DRAFT


 Prepared for the Water Committee of the Ogden Valley General Plan Update Review group

 E. Miranda Menzies; Jan 6, 2015

                                           Hydrogeology of Ogden Valley

 The purpose of this summary is to describe briefly the hydrogeology of the Ogden Valley, in order to aid
 understanding on the limits of groundwater resources in the valley, and how these resources can be best used.
 The hydrogeology of the valley has been described in detail by Lowe and Wallace (1999), Avery (1994) and
 Doyuran (1972). There is also a large amount of information presented in government publications such as
 those from the Utah Board of Water Resources, including Weber River Basin Plans for 1997 and 2009. For
 details and supporting information, the reader is referred to these and other references.

 The Ogden Valley is an enclosed Wasatch “Back Valley” lying approximately 7 miles to the east of Ogden,
 Weber County, Utah See Figure X map. The valley itself is 12 miles long and 3 miles wide with its long axis
 northwest to south east. The valley bottom is at an elevation of 4,800 to 5,300 feet and is surrounded by
 higher elevations which rise to over 8,500 feet; the Wasatch Range separates the valley from the Wasatch
 Front metropolitan area to the west, and the Bear River Range and Durst Mountain rise above the Ogden
 Valley to the east and south. These surrounding highlands are formed mostly from sedimentary rocks dating
 from more than a billion to 245 million years ago. The trough of the valley is filled mainly with 500 to more
 than 750 ft of volcanic ash deposits, dating from widespread volcanic activity approximately 40 million years
 ago (Avery 1994). These deposits are identified as the Norwood Formation on geologic maps.

 The Ogden Valley is an enclosed valley with only one draining canyon to the west – Ogden Canyon. Pineview
 Dam is located at the top end of this canyon, and retains 110,000 acre feet (ac ft) of water in Pineview
 Reservoir when full. The Ogden River, its tributaries (South, Middle and North Forks) and other smaller creeks
 such as Wolf Creek, Geertsen Creek, and Bennett Creek drain the valley and the surrounding mountains.

 The climate of Ogden Valley is semi-arid and temperate, with a mean annual temperature of 44 deg F, and an
 average of 22 inches of water/snow precipitation. More precipitation (up to 40 inches) falls on the uppermost
 parts of the hills and mountains surrounding the valley. The average precipitation for the Weber River Basin is
 26 inches – the wettest river basin in the state.

 The geology can be divided into three categories:

 1) Paleozoic and Proterozoic bedrock (mostly quartzites and carbonates) in the upper elevations and
 underlying the valley trough;
 2) The valley fill, which is mostly volcanic ash at depth; and
 3) Lake and stream deposits within the valley fill. These include “alluvial fans” in some places where creeks
 and rivers from the surrounding highlands reach the valley, and lake deltas from when the valley was a
 backwater of Lake Bonneville 15,000 years ago.
 The dominant flow of water in the valley and the surrounding highlands has four main components. See Block
 Diagram Figure Y:



                                                        Page 1
                                                                                                                   175
  DRAFT DRAFT


      1) Precipitation, much of it winter snows, falls on the surrounding highlands. Some of this water
         recharges underlying bedrock aquifers in the mountains, but the majority of it melts in spring and
         flows down the creeks and rivers to be captured in Pineview Reservoir. Precipitation in the valley
         during damp periods of the year also recharges the valley aquifers.
      2) Water which enters the bedrock aquifers in the upper elevations feeds permanent and seasonal
         springs and “gaining” sections of the creeks and rivers in the mountains, sustaining their flow through
         the year. Some of this water also flows downwards through the rocks and reaches the valley fill
         aquifer and springs along the valley margins by subsurface discharge from the valley trough bedrock
         walls.
      3) As the streams and rivers leave the mountains and enter the valley, they become “losing” streams.
         Water seeping from the bottom of the creeks, rivers and irrigation canals supplies water to aquifers in
         the alluvial fans and the main valley fill aquifer. Water applied in excess for irrigation may be added to
         the groundwater; efficient irrigation by pressurized systems adds less to the groundwater than
         traditional flood irrigation methods.
      4) Flow of groundwater in the main Ogden Valley is towards Pineview Reservoir and dam. The aquifer in
         the volcanic ash and alluvial deposits is drawn upon by hundreds of private wells, and a limited
         number of water company wells.

  The culinary water supply in the valley comes currently from groundwater, drawing from developed
  “permanent” springs (those that flow all year), and hundreds of private wells, most of which are documented
  by water rights. Some of the developed culinary water springs are relatively high on the mountain slopes;
  others are at the edge of the valley fill. Irrigation water supplies come mostly from the creeks and rivers,
  which are diverted into canals and storage ponds. The vast majority of creeks and rivers in the valley are dry
  throughout the irrigation season due to these diversions, which are documented in historical water rights,
  including the Ogden River Decree of 1938. As a result, only winter surface water flows infiltrate the aquifer to
  support groundwater flows.

  Elements of the valley water budget, and flows into and out of the valley fill, have previously been estimated
  by Doyuran (1972), Avery (1994) and Reuben (2011). These studies indicate that the annual flow from the
  valley fill aquifer into the Pineview aquifer is possibly falling. Avery estimated 49,000 ac feet/yr during 1985-
  86, while Reuben estimated 2700 ac ft/yr in 2011, however the methods used by the two studies were
  different. Falling flows to Pineview, or falling levels in the aquifer, would indicate that the ground water
  withdrawals are exceeding the recharge from losing streams, precipitation and irrigation. Both Doyuran and
  Avery studies report water levels in a number of wells, many of which likely still exist and can be revisited.
  There are a few US Geological Survey water level monitoring wells in the valley, two by the lake and one up
  valley in the area south east of Huntsville.

  The groundwater aquifers in the valley are hydraulically interconnected, but have three hydrogeological
  components:

      •   Near and under Pineview Reservoir, there is a confined aquifer of alluvial sand and gravel at depth,
          overlain by a confining bed of stratified lacustrine silts up to 100 feet thick. This is the aquifer drawn
          upon by the Ogden City wellfield.


                                                        Page 2

176                                                                                                            PLAN STUDY
DRAFT DRAFT


    •   A shallow unconfined aquifer is above the confining bed, but is generally less than 60 feet thick. This
        aquifer is assumed to be in hydraulic contact with the Pineview Reservoir.
    •   Beyond the confining layer, i.e. under Eden and northwards, and to the east of Huntsville,
        groundwater in the remaining areas of the valley is generally in unconfined, water table conditions.
        The aquifer is comprised of both the volcanic silts and alluvial deposits. The water table depth in the
        unconfined aquifer fluctuates as much as 30 feet annually.
The water quality in the valley-fill aquifer meets the Utah Water Quality Board Class 1 A – Pristine – the highest
quality classification. During sampling in 1994, one sampled well contained water above the nitrate drinking
water standard (10 mg/L), but otherwise the quality results were excellent. Recently, attention has been
focused on nitrate and phosphates in Pineview Reservoir. These are believed to come mostly from agricultural
sources, and application of fertilizers. Septic systems may also be a source locally.

The limitations on water supply are firstly, the overall quantity of water available for use. The valley is a single,
limited water-shed, but with a very large amount of storage in Causey and Pineview Reservoirs. For a
groundwater supply to be sustainable, wells and developed springs ultimately cannot draw more water than is
added to the groundwater system by recharge during the average annual cycle. The depth to water in drilled
wells, and whether over time this is increasing, is a good indication of whether more water is being drawn
from the system than is being recharged. To understand the data and identify seasonal vs. long term
variations, the water level needs to be measured several times (e.g. quarterly) over several years.

The majority of water in Pineview Reservoir is committed contractually to downstream culinary and irrigation
users, so this needs to be subtracted from the total annual flows. There are substantial flows to the City of
Ogden, from a well field adjacent to the lake. There are also existing commitments of flows to agriculture in
the valley, which sustain the rural values and appearance of the valley (see for example the Wolf Creek
Irrigation Diversion flows for 2014 on attached chart, compared to the summer water right of 9.85 cfs). These
flows have been reducing over the years, as irrigated farmland is converted to residential development, and
the water rights are usually transitioned with the land. Lastly, evaporation removes water from the system,
both as it evaporates from reservoir and ponds, and from growing plants. In the state as a whole 87% of
precipitation evaporates before it reaches streams and lakes. A further 7% of precipitation evaporates from
open water bodies or riparian/wetland vegetation.

The groundwater supply is also limited by geology, which limits how fast water will flow into a well. A good
indicator of this is the “specific capacity” of a well, which is how much the water level in the well drops for
each gallon per minute of water pumped. A permeable aquifer will yield more than 50 gallons per minute per
foot of drawdown (gpm/ft ddn) – i.e. its specific capacity will be 50 or more gpm/ft ddn. In the valley,
considering those wells with more than 100 ft depth (a Division of Drinking Water requirement for new
culinary wells), only a very few have specific capacity of more than 1 gpm/ft ddn, and these are mostly in
locations where there is a localized deposit of alluvial deposits (see Figure Z). The majority of the wells,
including those in the volcanic ash deposits that fills most of the valley away from the reservoir, have specific
capacity less than 1 gpm/ft ddn. The bedrock in the surrounding highland areas, and on the slopes of the
valley also has low specific capacity.

A further limitation is whether the quality of groundwater in the valley can be maintained. The majority of
sewage is managed in the valley through residential septic systems and a few central sewer company ponds
                                                       Page 3

                                                                                                                        177
  DRAFT DRAFT


  and drain-field systems. Water that is discharged from septic systems and other infiltration systems is added
  to the valley fill aquifer as recharge. Calculations of septic system spacing to maintain nitrate concentrations
  have indicated that septic systems cannot be spaced more closely than 1 per 3 acres without potentially
  affecting groundwater quality (Lowe and Wallace 1999).

  Further potential for water supply in the valley is the surface water in the Pineview Reservoir, and tributary
  streams. From a practical standpoint, it would be possible to withdraw water from the lake for irrigation use,
  or culinary use following treatment. To use Pineview water for culinary purposes, the conditions of the
  original contracts with the Bureau of Reclamation, arrangements for access to the lake shore currently owned
  by the Forest Service, and effects of recreational use on water quality, would need to be considered. From a
  “paper water” standpoint, to the extent that this water is contractually committed downstream, water rights
  would need to be purchased lower in the flow system and exchange applications filed. Considering together
  these two elements, surface water use and exchange of water rights from locations below Ogden Canyon, the
  amount of groundwater in Ogden Valley is not a limiting factor to development.

  Suggestions:

      1) A current water balance could be completed and compared to previous ones to understand water
         flows in the valley. This needs to include both “wet water” and “paper water” – i.e. physical water,
         and water documented in water rights. This will indicate what water is available contractually for use
         in the valley, and what is already committed to downstream users, and if there is any limit to future
         water right exchange applications.
      2) In order to find out whether water levels in the valley fill aquifer are dropping, we can compare
         current levels with levels measured in the 1970s and 1980s and reported in published technical papers.
         It would also be useful to request that a water level monitoring well be added to the USGS network in
         the North Fork part of the valley.
      3) Efforts need to be made to understand how to use the limited water resources most efficiently.



  References:

  Avery, C. 1994, Ground-water hydrology of Ogden Valley and surrounding area, eastern Weber County, Utah,
  and simulation of ground-water flow in the valley-fill aquifer: UT Dept of Nat. Res. Technical Publication 99
  (with USGS).
  Doyuran, V, 1972, Geology and ground-water resources of Ogden Valley, Utah, PhD Thesis submitted to
  University of Utah Department of Geological Sciences.
  Lowe, M. and Wallace, J. 1999, The hydrogeology of Ogden Valley, Weber County, Utah, and recommended
  waste-water management practices to protect ground-water quality: Geology of Northern Utah and Vicinity,
  Utah Geological Association field trip guidebook, pages 313-336
  Reuben, T.K, Worwood, B.K., Carrigan, L.D., Sorensen D.L. 2011 Pineview Reservoir Nutrient Loading,
  Unloading, and the Role of Groundwater in the Estimates Transactions of the American Society of Agricultural
  and Biological Engineers, Vol 54(6) 2219-2225


                                                       Page 4

178                                                                                                          PLAN STUDY
                  Proposal
       HYDROGEOLOGIC STUDY OF OGDEN
      VALLEY, WEBER COUNTY, UTAH, WITH
       EMPHASIS ON DEVELOPMENT OF A
               WATER BUDGET


      • Prepared by Mike Lowe, Janae Wallace, and
        Stefan Kirby, Utah Geological Survey




179
180
             The primary goals of the study are:
             (1) To characterize the hydrogeology of the Ogden
                  Valley drainage basin as it pertains to the
                  occurrence and flow of groundwater, with
                  emphasis on (a) pathways of recharge to
                  discharge, (b) groundwater-surface water
                  interactions, (c) delineating the thickness of the
                  valley-fill aquifer, and (4) determining the water-
                  yielding characteristics of fractured-rock aquifers
                  in the study area.
             (2) Develop a water budget for the drainage basin
                  that includes components of recharge and
                  discharge.




PLAN STUDY
181
182
                                       Proposed Tasks
             • Compile geologic map of Ogden Valley drainage basin; refine, as necessary, with
               new mapping; construct three cross sections; construct two stratigraphic columns
             • Assemble existing well data and specific capacity and aquifer tests
             • Measure water levels in selected wells and construct potentiometric surface map
               for principal valley-fill aquifer and, where possible, shallow unconfined and
               selected fractured-rock aquifers
             • Collect groundwater samples and analyze for environmental tracers and
               geochemistry, including total-dissolved solids and nitrate from 20 wells and
               springs
             • Delineate hydrostratigraphy of valley fill and fractured-rock units, and produce up
               to six valley-fill cross sections; isopach and structure-contour maps for valley-fill
               aquifer and, where sufficient information is available, select fractured-rock
               aquifers
             • Produce conceptual model of groundwater flow in Ogden Valley drainage basin
             • Develop water budget showing components of recharge, discharge and change in
               storage including estimates of error for each component
             • Write final report summarizing results of study




PLAN STUDY
                        Proposed Products
      • Hydrostratigraphic map at 1:100,000 scale in GIS format
      • Cross sections, Structure contour maps for valley-fill aquifer and aquitard
        layers and selected fractured-rock aquifers, Isopach map showing
        thickness of valley-fill deposits in GIS format
      • Potentiometric surface map(s) in GIS format
      • Water budget maps that show areal recharge including precip, stream
        seepage and other sources; and discharge including ET, well withdrawal
        and gaining streams
      • Water budget showing components of recharge, discharge and change in
        storage including estimates of error for each component
      • Report, including evaluations of environmental tracer data to delineate
        recharge and discharge, conceptual model of groundwater flow, and
        water budget for Ogden Valley drainage basin




183
184
                 Who benefits from this proposed comprehensive
                 study utilizing state-of-the-art study techniques?
             •   Weber County planners and Ogden Valley citizens will know if groundwater supply is an
                 issue that helps determine total number of lots in Ogden Valley.
             •   Ogden Valley water suppliers will know if new or proposed upland bedrock wells have
                 the potential to impact existing water rights and public supply sources.
             •   Utah Division of Water Rights will understand the potential for proposed upland
                 bedrock wells within or without the Ogden Valley drainage basin to draw ground water
                 across county lines.
             •   Ogden City officials and residents will better understand flow paths to their Pineview
                 Reservoir area well field and the potential for impact of development on their water
                 supply.
             •   Weber Basin Water Conservancy District and the Utah Division of Water Rights will
                 better understand the quantity and distribution of groundwater in the Ogden Valley
                 drainage basin.
             •   Wasatch Front Weber County citizens, Weber County officials, and Utah Division of
                 Water Rights regulators will know if groundwater development in Ogden Valley has the
                 potential to impact east shore area of Great Salt Lake water rights.
             •   After the proposed study is completed, enough information will be available to build a
                 state-of-the-art groundwater flow model if there is desire to do so and funding
                 available.




PLAN STUDY
                      Timeframe and Budget
      • The proposed study would begin July 1, 2015 and would be
        completed by June 30, 2017 (two years).
      • The cost of the project will be $120,000 each year, of which
        the Utah Geological Survey will provide about $60,000 in
        in-kind match each year. $60,000 of outside funding will be
        required each year (Utah Division of Water Rights -
        $10,000, Weber Basin Water Conservancy District -
        $20,000, Weber County- $15,000, Ogden City - $15,000).

                                UGS Project Personnel
       •Mike Lowe – Manager, Groundwater & Paleontology Program – project coordinator
       •Stefan Kirby – Senior Geologist – oversight water budget
       •Janae Wallace – Senior Geologist – geochemistry, co-author
       •Lucy Jordan – Senior Geologist – potentiometric surface mapping, conceptual model of groundwater
       flow, co-author
       •Jon King – Senior Geologist – geologic map and cross sections, co-author
       •Brittany Dame – Geologist – data assembly, potentiometric surface mapping, gechemistry, valley-fill
       cross sections, isopach maps, structure contour maps, water budget, first author
       •Nathan Payne – GIS analyst – GIS work for most study products
       •Zach Anderson – GIS analyst – GIS work on geologic map




185
             Appendix G
      InterPlan Transportation
            Memorandum




186                              PLAN STUDY
                                            MEMORANDUM

Date: August 21, 2015

To: Jim Carter, Logan Simpson Design

From: Tim Sullivan and Charles Allen, InterPlan

Subject: Recommendations for incorporation of Ogden Valley Master Transportation Plan in Ogden
Valley General Plan

InterPlan reviewed the Ogden Valley Transportation Master Plan (TMP) and has the following
recommendations for how to integrate the plan’s findings and recommendations into the Ogden Valley
General Plan. We also have additional recommendations for other transportation-related elements to
include in the General Plan.

Transportation Master Plan Goals

The TMP sets out the following goals for transportation in Ogden Valley:

       Goal 1: Plan for future improvements needed as the county develops
       Goal 2: Identify important corridors for right-of-way preservation
       Goal 3: Improve safety for all roadway users

We recommend including these goals in the General Plan. However, we also recommend adding a few
other goals in light of the feedback received from the General Plan process, the direction of the General
Plan’s recommendations, and other planning studies done in the area and region. The TMP has a limited
scope – it excludes state routes, and it is focused on vehicle capacity and safety. We believe the addition
of other goals is a good way to broaden the scope of the transportation recommendations.

We recommend consideration of the following additional goals:

       Develop a comprehensive strategy to create sustainable, multimodal gateway corridors in and
        out of Ogden Valley
       Explore opportunities for active transportation in Ogden Valley
       Manage demand for transportation away from single occupant vehicle trips, especially those in
        and out of Ogden Valley




                                                    1

                                                                                                              187
      Existing and Future Conditions Analysis

      The TMP includes a summary of transportation-related demographic data. The key demographic
      observations are:

              Nearly 80 percent of Ogden Valley resident workers drive to work
              11 percent carpool
              6 percent work from home
              Very few ride transit (.1 %)
              Very few bike or walk (.9 %)
              Average travel time to work is 34 minutes

      Safety

      The TMP also includes a summary of transportation related safety data for Ogden data, primarily
      including a hazard rating (also known as Safety Index). The key safety observations are:

              Highway 162 through Eden has a 6-7 hazard rating. The high hazard rating is due to the narrow,
               winding character of the road, with many residential accesses.
              State highway accesses to Ogden Valley are of medium level of safety (4.5-6 hazard rating).

      Future Growth Assumptions

      The TMP includes a summary of its growth assumptions for the jobs, population and households that
      provide a foundation for its travel demand model results and hence the plan’s recommendations. It is
      critical to understand the similarities and differences between the TMP assumptions and the more
      recent growth projections generated by Weber County, because these suggest different needs for future
      improvements.

      It is equally critical to understand how General Plan recommendations for future land use and zoning
      will or will not change the assumptions for the TMP, and how its recommendations may need to be
      adjusted.

      The TMP acknowledges that very little future projection exists for future land use and transportation,
      but still makes estimates. The TMP states that there were 3,506 households in Ogden Valley in 2014.
      The TMP predicts that current land uses could grow an additional 14,428 units. That number includes
      10,000 non-resort units. Resort growth would include 1,000 units at Nordic Valley; 981 units at Powder
      Mountain; and 2447 Weber County Snowbasin units (with an additional 2,350 units in Morgan County).

      An important assumption the TMP makes is that open developable land will be one-third built out by
      2040. That would mean the addition of 3,200 additional non-resort units by 2040 and 2,121 resort units
      by 2040 – for a total of 5,321 additional units by 2040. However, the County sees the possibility that the
      valley’s growth could occur more quickly, with a full buildout potentially occurring by 2050. If, for
      example, one assumes that the buildout occurs by 2050 and growth occurs at a constant linear rate, the
      2040 household total would be 12,503. That is over double the TMP estimate.

      The other major growth assumption issue is where the growth will be concentrated. This can be framed
      in two different ways – the specific areas of Ogden Valley where growth will be concentrated; as well as
      the broad growth pattern of the valley, whether units are “clustered” together or near existing
      population centers or scattered in an even distribution of low-density growth. Both have very large

                                                          2
188                                                                                                    PLAN STUDY
implications for the transportation system.

The TMP assumes that growth is distributed more heavily in resorts, in Eden on Wolf Creek Golf Course
along Highway 158, north of Nordic Valley along 162, and southeast of Huntsville. The rest of valley core
around Pineview Reservoir would take on more medium levels of growth.

At a broader level, the TMP predicts the continuation of large lot residential development. However, the
General Plan will likely recommend a more clustered approach near existing communities. The
implications of this are more potential for active transportation and transit reducing the number of trips
on the county roads and state highways.

One critical element missing from the TMP growth assumption discussion is gateway trips. Ogden Valley
has natural mountain geography that restricts the number of ingress/egress points. Similar to Park
City/Snyderville Basin and Heber Valley, this lack of area access puts pressure on what are known as
“gateway facilities” – roads that provide the limited access in and out of the area. For these mountain
valleys, additional factors also combine to put additional pressure on gateway facilities and challenge
their sustainability: In the Wasatch Front the proximity of these valleys to a major cluster of
metropolitan jobs is an additional draw out of the valleys; the scenic beauty and recreational resources
of these mountain valleys draw weekend, holiday, and special event traffic to them; and the
geographical constraints of the mountainous areas the gateway facilities must run through restrict these
roads’ future capacity and operational improvements.

Earlier in the General Plan process InterPlan did a very high-level analysis of future gateway facility
needs in Ogden Valley. Our analysis centered on the number of “gateway trips” – trips in or out of the
Valley using one of the gateway facilities. Currently, Ogden Valley has three gateway facilities – Ogden
Canyon (the major gateway facility); Trappers Loop; and North Ogden Divide. Our analysis found that
currently Ogden Valley has a high proportion of second homes and has about 2.57 daily gateway trips
per housing unit. However, depending on future growth, it could move in the direction of Park
City/Snyderville Basin, which has a higher rate of primary residences and 5.38 daily gateway trips per
unit , which would dramatically increase the impact of new growth on the transportation system. A
higher rate of gateway trips would mean more pressure on the existing gateway facilities, unless more
jobs and services and other amenities were brought into Ogden Valley. The rate of gateway trips per
household could also remain low if second homes, vacation units, small household sizes, and retired
households continue to be prevalent.

Traffic analysis

County and local roads

The TMP focused on analysis and recommendations of non-state roads. It concluded that traffic is in
good shape on these county and local roads in Ogden Valley. It found that the only section of road
operating at less than Level of Service (LOS) A in 2014 is Highway 162 west of intersection with 158.
However, with a 2040 “no-build” scenario:
      Highway 162 east of 158 fails by 2040
      Other sections of Highway 162 deteriorate to B or C
      7800 East north of SR-36 falls to LOS B
If, as the county’s new projections suggest, the buildout of the valley occurs sooner, these segments of
roadway will likely see their levels of service degraded sooner as well.



                                                    3
                                                                                                             189
      State roads

      The TMP does not address state roads. As stated above, InterPlan performed a very high-level analysis
      of gateway facilities – what we believe to be the most critical state highway issue in Ogden Valley. Our
      analysis found that while Ogden Canyon is currently at nearly 60 percent capacity and other gateway
      facilities at less than 20 percent capacity, the projected quickening rate of growth and primary
      residences would lead Ogden Canyon to fail as early as 2020 (30 percent buildout) and others to fail over
      the next decade.

      However, we recommend a more in-depth study of major gateway facilities in and out of Ogden Valley.
      We also recommend including the recommendations of the UDOT Region 1 Ogden Canyon study
      currently being performed.

      Other plan recommendations

      The TMP notes that the Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) created by Wasatch Front Regional Council
      (WFRC) includes a Phase 3 (2030 – 2040) widening of SR-39 including Ogden Canyon. The new WFRC RTP
      has moved the SR-39 widening project to Phase 4 (unfunded projects).

      We also recommend including the UDOT Long Range Plan (LRP) projects affecting Ogden Valley,
      although we may want to note that like the TMP, the UDOT LRP is based on jobs and household
      projections that are lower than the County's latest estimates:

      Projects within Ogden Valley
           SR-39, MP 9 to 22 - Planning Study, Phase 1
           SR-39, MP 9 to 22 - Widening, Phase 4 (unfunded) – this project was previously in Phase 3.
           SR-159, MP 0 to 3.8 - Widening, Phase 2

      Projects affecting Ogden Valley
           SR-167, MP 0 to 1.6, I-84 to Trappers Loop Road, Planning Study, Phase 1
           SR-167, MP 1.6 to 11.1, Trappers Loop Road to SR-39, Widening, Phase 4

      Each of the three following projects are interrelated and most likely only one of the projects will
      ultimately be constructed as each of the projects could negate the need for the others.
           SR-167, MP 1.6 to 11.1, Trappers Loop Rd to SR-39, Widening, Phase 3
           I-84, MP 94, New interchange with southern extension of SR-167, Phase 3
           I-84, Trappers Loop Road Interchange, Replace ½ interchange, Phase 4 (unfunded)

      TMP Recommendations

      The TMP sets out several recommendations. We have summarized those recommendations below and,
      to help distill the aims of the recommendations, grouped them under planning objectives. In general,
      and pending the further development of the complementing General Plan elements, we support these
      recommendations. But as with the goals section, we believe that the General Plan needs to include a
      broader list of recommendations. Also, with the differences in growth assumptions between the TMP
      and Weber County’s more recent projections, we recommend that the county consider moving up some
      of the improvements to an earlier timeframe. Regardless of how growth in the valley ends up occurring,
      the transportation recommendations remain the same, except that phasing and timing of the
      recommended improvements may be different.


                                                           4
190                                                                                                     PLAN STUDY
We have noted below in red suggested edits and additions to the recommendations.

*Lines on the TMP maps representing recommended improvements are general connections, not
necessarily specific alignments for new roads or streets.

Protect capacity of Highway 162
     Widen Highway 162 to three lanes (Phase 2 – 2040 but monitor pace of growth).
     New arterial from SR-158 to 7100 East to provide alternate route through this section of the
        valley (Phase 2 – 2040 but monitor pace of growth).
     New arterial extension of 4100 North to connect with SR-158 to provide alternative to using 162
        (Phase 1 – 2025 but monitor pace of growth).

Fill out the grid to increase overall connectivity
      New road connecting 8600 East to 7900 East north of Huntsville to fill out grid (Phase 2 – 2040)
      New extension of 1300 South outside Huntsville to connect to Ogden Canyon Road (SR-39) to fill
          out grid.
      Consider making some connections immediately in order to create bypass routes around special
          events.

Better support future growth
     Realignment of 8600 East south of 500 East to support future growth.
     Re-routing of 1300 South intersection with 9500 East to support future growth.

Create basic transportation and roadway infrastructure
     Create functional classification system for Ogden Valley
     Implement series of phased future signals

Strengthen alternative transportation modes
     Consider future regularly scheduled bus service as the area develops
     Include bike lanes on all major collectors
     Sidewalks recommended on all local roads but only included where needed depending on
        housing type and density; otherwise six foot paved shoulder.
     Work with Weber Pathways to implement 2010 Weber County Cooperative Pathways Master
        Plan and use this plan as a tool for active transportation
     Pedestrian crossing improvements to reduce pedestrian involved crashes

Work with state and other partners to develop a comprehensive, sustainable, and feasible approach to
Ogden Valley gateway corridors
    Build on the results of Ogden Canyon study
    Emphasize capacity improvements on Trappers Loop rather than in Ogden Canyon
    Encourage small safety and other improvements to Ogden Canyon as recommended in the
       Ogden Canyon study
    Study improvements to other gateway facilities
    Develop ways to manage travel demand in and out of the valley both through jobs-housing-
       amenities balance and alternative transportation modes

Reinforce character of Ogden Valley with location and design of street networks and individual streets.

Build new and improved transportation connections in accordance with public support.


                                                   5                                                      191
