           JMR TRUCKING VEHICLE STORAGE CONDITIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Rafael Pena
                         Meeting Date         January 11, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use and site plan
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        Approximately 4250 N Digital Drive
                          Project Area        Approximately 2.13 acres
                       Existing Zoning        Light Industrial
              General Plan Designation        Commercial
                    Existing Land Use         Vehicle Storage and Food Truck/Tent (unpermitted)
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North Light Industrial          Freedom Trucking School
                                                 South Planned Community Undeveloped
                                                  East Planned Community Rail Trail Corridor
                                                  West Light Industrial          Pool Storage
                     Date of DRC Review       December 13, 2023
                       Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval
                           City Council       No action required


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.


                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest


     PROPERTY HISTORY
March 25, 1996               Property came into the City as part of the Transwest Annexation


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of vehicle storage located at approximately 4250 North Digital Drive. The parcel for
this proposed use is south of the Freedom Trucking School parcel that received approval for Vehicle Storage in De-
cember 2023.

The applicant provided a sketch plan showing the access and vehicle storage areas. They also label the type of vehicles
and show the location of a dumpster. In their narrative and on their site plan they reference a food truck and tent. Most
of the DRC comments relate to these items. The applicant still has not submitted an application for the food truck or
tent. Please include in your motion that approval of this application will allow for the vehicle storage, but not the food
truck or tent. An application must be submitted for these uses or additional enforcement measures will take place.

City Staff originally received a complaint about the vehicle storage which initiated talking to the applicant. The vehicle
storage at that time extended into the neighboring parcels which are zoned Planned Community but not part of the
Traverse Mountain or any other Area Plan. The applicant would need to rezone these properties in order to store
vehicles on them. They are aware of this and agreed to keep the vehicles on the parcel zoned Light Industrial. The
plans they submitted show compliance with this requirement. However, when this report was written vehicles were
still parked on the parcels.

These parcels do not have access to water or sewer which limits the landscaping potential. It also puts some limits on
the conditions that could be placed on the approval.

 The DRC reviewed the application and had the following three comments:
1. Any temporary tent structure intended for general occupancy must posses a tent permit through Lehi City Fire
    Department.
2. The food truck parked on this property needs to submit a temporary use application.
3. Use can only go on these lots that are zoned LI. The parcels that are zoned PC need to be rezoned before any
    other uses can be put on them.

     SCOPE OF APPROVAL
Conditional uses allow for public comment. The comments should focus on the impact of the conditional use of vehicle
storage and any conditions that could help mitigate against potential negative impact to surrounding properties.

The Planning Commission may at their discretion, require reasonable conditions.

     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS
The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed conditional use and site plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
2.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
3.    That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
      and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
      be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
4.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.


                                                                                                                        2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         December 13, 2023

                                                  JMR Truck Conditional Use
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

JMR Trucks and Equipment- requests review of the JMR Truck Conditional Use for storage of vehicles located at
approximately 4250 North Digital Drive.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Ross
    Dinsdale, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney
Representatives of the Applicant Present: N/A
Date of Plans Reviewed: 11/30/23
Time Start: 2:02 pm
Time End: 2:07 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire:
1. Any temporary tent structure intended for general occupancy must posses a tent permit through Lehi City Fire
    Department.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Ross – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
2. The food truck parked on this property needs to submit a temporary use application.
3. Use can only go on these lots that are zoned LI. The parcels that are zoned PC need to be rezoned before any other uses
    can be put on them.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JANUARY 11, 2023




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
