                            NEWBOLD ESTATES ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant         Dave Scoville
                                Meeting Date          January 11, 2024
                     Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                      change
                              Decision Type           Legislative
                                   Location           Approximately 600 North 500 West
                                    Acreage           7.3 acres
                            Existing Zoning           A-1 & R-2
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           LDR & MDR
               Proposed Zoning Designation            R-1-Flex
                          Existing Land Use           Single family residential
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North A-1                 Undeveloped
                                                       South A-1                Single family residential
                                                        East R-2                Single family residential
                                                        West A-1                Railroad ROW
                            Date of DRC Review        December 13, 2023
                              Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                  City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
Accommodate a range of housing and neighborhood types suitable for a variety of lifestyles, ages, affordability
levels, and design options.




Newbold Estates Zone Change
     PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872                 This property is part of the original boundaries of Lehi City.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from A-1 and R-2 to R-1-Flex on 7.3
acres of property located at approximately 600 North 500 West. The General Plan designation of LDR and MDR is
consistent with the zone change request.

The rezone application will allow the applicant to build new single-family homes. This matches the existing residential
area and the applicant decided not to maximize the potential density of the area. They could have asked for more lots
with the R-2 designation, but the applicant was more interested in having quarter acre lots throughout the project.

The DRC reviewed the proposed Zone Change and had two redline comments.

1.    As a condition of recording the zone change ordinance and prior to submission of an application for preliminary
      subdivision, the owner needs to complete the required water dedication for the R-1-Flex Zone. The amount of culi-
      nary water is 1.58 acre feet per acre and irrigation water is 2.11 acre feet per acre.
2.    The proposed zone change is consistent with the General Plan designation of Low Density Residential.

Please consider the DRC comments in the motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes that follow the General Plan must be approved unless there is significant evidence that doing so will have
a negative impact on the health, safety or welfare of residents.

This is a public hearing item, meaning the public can speak on this item. However, the public should realize that the
zone change cannot be denied simply because they do not like the proposed development. Comments should focus on
negative impacts that would take place with the zone change.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
      2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
      3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
           properties;
      4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
           the General Plan;
      5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
           for nearby and adjoining properties;
      6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Newbold Estates Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         December 13, 2023

                                          Newbold Estates Residential Zone Change
                                                 DRC Redline Comments

Dave Scoville- requests review of the Newbold Estates Zone Change, 7.3-acres located at approximately 600 North 500
West, changing the zoning from A-1 & R-2 to R-1-Flex.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Ross
    Brad Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Dave Scoville
Date of Plans Reviewed: 11/30/23
Time Start: 1:06 pm
Time End: 1:18 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey– Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. As a condition of recording the zone change ordinance and prior to submission of an application for preliminary
    subdivision, the owner needs to complete the required water dedication for the R-1-Flex Zone. The amount of culinary
    water is 1.58 acre feet per acre and irrigation water is 2.11 acre feet per acre.
2. The proposed zone change is consistent with the General Plan designation of Low Density Residential.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JANUARY 11, 2023.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
