                             CHAPTER 35 COMMUNITY FORESTRY
                              DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                                    PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant        Lehi City
                           Meeting Date         January 11, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation on proposed amendments to the Lehi City
                                                Development Code
                             Decision Type      Legislative
                       Date of DRC Review       November 8, 2023

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                      Planning Commission       Review and recommendation
                              City Council      Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General Plan.
In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and the City
Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties.
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The City Forester, Jessica Smith, requests review and recommendation of proposed amendments to Chapter 35 of the
Development Code on Community Forestry. Park Staff along with DRC reviewed Chapter 35 of the Development
Code and made some minor changes to increase readability, clarify between public and private regulations, and elim-
inate unnecessary information. The main reasons for changes are for greater consistency and understanding throughout
the chapter when it comes to public trees. Reducing the wording in the chapter along with adjusting sections for better
clarity and organization to the appropriate sections are also part of the reason for the proposed changes.


The DRC reviewed the proposed changes and had some minor text revisions they suggested. See their comments and
Jessica’s response to them in the DRC Comments document included with the packet information for this item.

Please include all DRC comments in your motion.




Chapter 35 Development Code Amendment
  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Development Code Amendments are legislative items and also public hearings. The public can share their opinions
on the amendments and recommend any changes. Ultimately, they would need the Planning Commission to include
the proposed changes into their motion.



  PLANNING DIVISION RECOMMENDATION

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendments to the Lehi
City Development Code. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provi-
         sions of the General Plan and its various elements.
    2.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Chapter 35 Development Code Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          November 8, 2023

                             Chapter 35, Community Forestry Development Code Amendment
                                              DRC Redline Comments

Lehi City- requests review of amendments to the Lehi City Development Code Chapter 35, Community Forestry, clarifying
the City’s regulations for both private and public trees.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Ross
    Dinsdale, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner:
Representatives of the Applicant Present: James
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/16/23
Time Start: 1:15
Time End: 1:35

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Reference NESC paragraph. 8’ is clear space, not centerline.
Add “follow NESC Encroachment Standards and” after shall in the sentence.

Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
2. Change paragraph J to read, "Water or Pressurized Irrigation meter"
Will change this to read Water or Pressurized Irrigation Meter
3. An exception for tree replacement due to conflict with any public utility must be provided in section 35.170.
The exception is noted within the last sentence with approval by the Urban Forester or the Parks Department.
4. conflict with utilities
The current Lehi City Development Code would address the replacement tree and the restrictions. If the tree cannot
be replaced withing the right of way the tree would be placed within the landscape elsewhere following the Design
standards where the Parks Department or Urban Forester has it replaced within the landscape.
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Ross – Engineering: (See Bluebeam Session for the following comments)
5. Change text to "may be"
Will change to may be
6. and section 2 of the Lehi City Design Standards and Public Improvement Specifications
? Not sure what section. I don’t have Bluebeam to see the location of the comments.
7. Update Item I to strike the reference to fire hydrant and add “power cabinet or power equipment”. We should allow
     trees within 10’ of driveway, this doesn’t seem to be a conflict.
Fire hydrants and transformers have been in the ordinances with the 10’ clearance of a tree and with some shrubs
get very large at maturity so that is why they are being added. With the Hydrant in emergencies clearance can be
crucial to time saved and a 15’ height above the hydrant is needed and larger tree branches. The transformer a 10’
clearance of trees and shrubs are noted on the transformer and is the National Standard. The 10’ from the Driveway
I did not catch. It is supposed to be 5’ from a driveway. This planting restriction is in the permit and is meant to
protect the drive approach and the curb where they meet from the tree’s root flare. I will add another line separate
for the Driveway restriction of 5’.
8. Update Item J to say “water or pressurized irrigation meter, fire hydrant or blowoff”.
Will change this to read Water or Pressurized Irrigation Meter
9. Change to A.A.S.H.T.O
Will Change the spelling to the correct abbreviation.
10. and section 2 of the Lehi City Design Standards and Public Improvement Specifications
? Not sure what section. I don’t have Bluebeam to see the location of the comments.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          November 8, 2023

11. On the restriction of planting trees in park strips less than 7’, recommend adding some flexibility on a case-by-case
     basis as approved by the Forester. Maybe restrict all trees in park strips less than 4’, and then allow the flexibility
     between 4’ and 7’ and refer to the Public Tree Selection Guide for guidance.
The last sentence does give the ability to the parks department the exceptions to change the location/species in the
park strip. Trees are not rarely denied and are added back to the park strips even as wide of 3’.
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
12. Question on 35.030A - do we have a permit system in place for public tree planting? This will require a lot of
     management to keep track of.
The permit system has been in place since June 2020. The permit is used as education to help the homeowner choose
a better tree and placement for the park strip along with notifying them of certain restrictions for planting, the
unacceptable tree list, and that they are planting on city property. It’s a simple form filled out online and submitted
to the Urban Forester. It takes very little time to approve and send back the permit that notes those restrictions
again, how they can reach the forester with questions or concerns and attached are proper planting and basic care
for establishment of the tree. The permit is added to the tree inventory system and attached to that address.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON DECEMBER 14, 2023




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
Proposed Changes to Chapter 35 – Community Forestry

The reasons for changes are for greater consistency and understanding throughout the chapter when it
comes to public trees. Reducing the wording in the chapter along with adjus ng sec ons for be!er
clarity and organiza on to the appropriate sec on are the main reasons for these proposed changes.

Some of the more noted changes are. (Note- There was something up with the forma'ng)

   •   Change street trees to all being referred to public trees throughout the en re chapter.
   •   35.020 Adding A.A.S.H.T.O. was added.
   •   35.080F-Changing the spacing of tree to just referring to the design standards instead of having
       the spacing for size listed.
   •   35.080 – Changing the tle to Public and Private Guidelines from Street tree Guidelines
   •   35.080.D- Changed the spacing of the public trees to the current design standards guidelines
       instead of no ng the spacing and size of trees to be consistent to the spacing now being the
       same.
   •   35.080.F- Added placement of private trees and placement of proper es that abut a public
       sidewalk or trail.
   •   35.080.G- Added Private trees and placement on proper es that abut a Power sta on.
   •   35.080.H- Changed the height of vegeta on to 24” within the clear view triangle to be consistent
       with traﬃc laws and the Flip a Strip Program.
   •   35.080.J- added vegeta on planted within 5’ of a water meter.
   •   35.089 changed to 35.090.
   •   35.100 – Changed from Street Trees to Private Property Owners Responsibili es
   •   35.100 En re sec on was adjusted for improved clarity and responsibility when it pertains to
       public trees .
   •   35.110 – En re sec on was adjusted for improved clarity and responsibili es of vegeta on and
       public right of ways.
   •   35.150- Adding that all contractors shall be cer ﬁed to work on trees around power lines.
   •   35.190 Hazardous tree and a meline and consequences of not mi ga ng the hazards a=er
       no fying the party.
   •   35.220 – Removed the appeal
Community Forestry                                                                             Adopted 04/22/08

CHAPTER 35

COMMUNITY FORESTRY
(Revised 07/14/20)


Section 35.010.         Purpose
Section 35.020.         Definitions
Section 35.030.         Applicability
Section 35.040.         Coordination between Departments
Section 35.050.         Trees Advisory Board
Section 35.060.         Annual Plan of Work
Section 35.070.         Public Tree Care Specifications and Standards
Section 35.080.         Street Tree Guidelines
Section 35.090.         Street Tree and Public Tree Care
Section 35.100.         Street Trees – Private Owner Responsibility
Section 35.110.         Street, Sidewalk and Corner Clearance
Section 35.120.         Tree Preservation
Section 35.130.         Injuring Trees
Section 35.140.         Appraisal of Trees
Section 35.150.         Power Line Clearance Standards
Section 35.160.         Resolution of Conflicts Between Trees and Structures
Section 35.170.         Replacement of Street Trees
Section 35.180.         Dangerous or Hazardous Conditions Which are Declared a Public Nuisance
Section 35.190.         Abatement or Removal of Dangerous or Hazardous Trees on Private Property
Section 35.200.         Interference with Maintenance and Removal Unlawful
Section 35.210.         Penalty for Violation
Section 35.220.         Appeals

Section 35.010 Purpose.
The City of Lehi recognizes that trees are a valuable community resource that need to be protected and enhanced
through proper management, education, and stewardship. Healthy trees reduce air and noise pollution, provide
energy- saving shade and cooling, furnish habitat for wildlife, enhance aesthetics and property values, and are an
important contributor to community image, pride, and quality of life. This chapter is not intended to resolve or
regulate any disputes over trees or any vegetation on private property that do not affect public safety. The
provisions of this chapter are enacted to:

     A. establish, preserve and maintain the maximum amount of quality tree cover on public and private lands
        within the boundaries of Lehi City to enhance the City’s environmental, economic and social character
        with mature trees;

     B. encourage site and utility planning, building and development practices to prevent indiscriminate re-
        moval or destruction of trees and avoid unnecessary disturbance to trees within the City and its area of
        impact;

     C. protect public safety, health and welfare by maintaining public trees in a healthy and non- hazardous
        condition through appropriate arboricultural practices;

     D. provide for the planting, maintenance, and removal of dead, dying or hazardous trees on City lands, and
        on private lands as needed;

     E. inform and educate property owners and City staff of new and existing guidelines for dealing with pub-
        lic trees adjacent to their property, and hazardous trees on private properties;

     F.   establish and maintain appropriate diversity of tree species and age classes to provide a stable and sus-
          tainable community forest;

Lehi City Development Code                                                                             Page 35-
Community Forestry                                                                                   Adopted 04/22/08


    G. provide for the preservation, marking and maintaining of historic or notable trees through an initial in-
       ventory of trees within the City;

    H. develop and maintain a tree selection guide;

    I.   develop and maintain an Annual Urban Forestry Plan of Work;


    I.J. protect the City’s electric power system and promote public health and safety, and protect, as much as
         possible, the health and vigor of the trees adjacent to or under power lines within the City while prevent-
         ing tree-related electric power outages; and

    J.K. implement the goals and objectives of the general plan.

Section 35.020 Definitions.
For the purpose of as used in this Chapter:

    A. “Arboricultural Standards and Specifications” shall refer to the standards and specifications in this chap-
          ter.
    B. “Adjacent Property Owner” means any person owning property adjacent to a public right-of-way.
    C. “American National Standards Institute” or “A.N.S.I.” refers to a current set of nationally established
          standards for tree care operations and maintenance adopted by the City of Lehi in this chapter.
    D. “A.P.P.A.” shall refer to the American Public Power Association.
    D.E. “A.A.S.H.T.O” shall refer to The American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
    E.F. “Best Management Practices” or “BMP” shall refer to the ISA series developed for the purposes of in-
          terpreting tree care standards and providing guidelines to those working with trees, as adopted by Lehi
          City.
     G. “Community Forest Program” shall mean the program and staff of all departments in Lehi City charged
          with the care and management of public trees.
     H. “Hazardous Tree(s)” shall mean public or private dead or dying trees, dead parts of a live tree, or unstable
          live trees, either due to structural defects or other factors, that are within striking distance of either people
          or public property and that have the potential to cause damage, personal injury, or a fatality in the event
          of a failure.
     F.I. “Heritage Trees” refers to any tree or group of trees so designated by the Utah Division of Forestry, Fire
          and State Lands in accordance with the criteria given in Utah Code Ann. 65A-8-302., A Heritage Trees
          Advisory Committee composed of five persons appointed by the division.
    G.J. “International Society of Arboriculture” or “I.S.A.” shall refer to the internationally recognized organi-
          zation for arboriculture whose mission is to foster a greater appreciation for trees and to promote the re-
          search, technology, and practice of professional arboriculture.
    H. “Invasive Species” shall mean a species of tree, vegetation, or pest that is likely to cause economic or
          environmental harm to either the environment or human health.
    I. “Hazardous Trees” shall mean dead or dying trees, dead parts of a live tree, or unstable live trees, either            Formatted: Font: 10 pt
          due to structural defects or other factors, that are within striking distance of either people or property and
          that have the potential to cause damage, personal injury, or fatality in the event of a failure.                    Formatted: Justified, Indent: Hanging: 0.26", Right:
    J.K. “Heritage Trees” refers to any tree or group of trees so designated by the Utah Division of                          0.08", Space Before: 0.1 pt
         Forestry, Fire and State Lands in accordance with the criteria given in Utah Code Ann. 65A-8-
         302., A Heritage Trees Advisory Committee composed of five persons appointed by the
         division.
    K. “Non-Public Trees” shall mean trees on private property.
    L. “Planter Strip” or “Park Strip” shall mean the area between the curb and the sidewalk, or publicly
       owned land adjacent to a publicly owned street or sidewalk.
    L.M.      “Private tree” shall refer to trees growing on private property.
    M.N.      “Public Right-of-Way” refers to improved or unimproved public property owned by, dedicated to,                  Formatted: Justified, Indent: Hanging: 0.27"
       or deeded to the public or for public use for the purpose of providing vehicular, pedestrian, or other public
       use. Such public property provides circulation and travel to abutting properties and includes, but is not
Lehi City Development Code                                                                                    Page 35-
Community Forestry                                                                            Adopted 04/22/08

        limited to streets, sidewalks, bike lanes, landscaping, provisions for publicpublic utilities, cut and fill
        slopes, and open public space.
   N.O.         “Public Tree” or “Street Tree” shall mean a tree in any public place or, located on Lehi City
        property, in- cludingincluding but not limited to planter strips, and thea Ppublic Rright- of- Wway..
   O.P. “Public Utility” refers to any company, or municipal department, duly authorized to furnish under pub-
        lic regulation, electricity, gas, telephone, internet, transportation, and water or sewer service.
   P.Q.         “Tree Advisory Board” refers to a board consisting of the Urban Forester and other City
        departments that serves and collaborates about citywide matters pertaining to the planting, health, and
        care of the community urban forest. The primary functions of the Board are to make an Arbor Day
        Proclamation.




Lehi City Development Code                                                                             Page 35-
Community Forestry                                                                              Adopted 04/22/08

    Q.R.“Top” or “Topping” shall mean the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs within the tree’s crown to such
         a degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree or severely alter the species’ genetic
         structural characteristics.
    R.S. “Tree Litter” refers to any plant material or debris such as leaves, bark, needles, twigs, cones/seeds or
         fruit that has fallen to the ground
    S.T. “Tree City USA” shall mean a designation by the National Arbor Day Foundation recognizing cities that
         effectively manage their tree resources based on four main standards which include: a tree committee, a
         community tree ordinance, a community forestry program with an annual budget of at least $2 per capi-
         ta, and an annual Arbor Day observance and proclamation.
    T.U.          “Tree Permit” shall refer to a permit obtained from the City to install a new tree within any
         PublicCity Rright- of-Wway.
    U.V.          “Urban Forester” shall mean the City arborist responsible for the care and management of the
         urban canopy.
    V.W.          “Vegetation” shall include trees, bushes, shrubs, hedges and any other vegetation coming under
         the pro- visions of this chapter.

Section 35.030 Applicability.
This chapter applies to all trees, shrubs and other vegetation in Lehi City located on public property or in the
Ppublic Rrights-of-Wways, along with public and private trees or vegetation that are a public nuisance or hazard.
In the case of any discrepancy between this chapter and, the current Lehi City Munic-ipalMunicipal Code and ,
Design Standards and Public Improvement Specifications, this chapter shall take precedence.

Section 35.040 Coordination between Departments.
There shall be close coordination between the Parks Department andDepartment and otherall city departments
when necessary corrective action is needed on public trees.public trees are affected to take the necessary corrective
action. Sight distance concerns for stop signs, traffic signals and , other regulatory signs ,or and clear view areas
at street intersec- tionsintersections or heaving sidewalks shall be referred to the Streets Engineer or Street
Department Supervisor. who shall coordinate with the Urban Forester to take the necessary corrective action. Plans
for all lighting, power transmission and distribution shall be referred to Lehi City Power Department., sewerSewer,
irrigation, water, street and other public works projects shall be referred to the Public Works Department.
considered -with reference to their effect upon trees on public property prior to the beginning of work on such
projects.C The various city department heads shall coordinate all projects and programs with the Parks Department
and follow ISA and BMP to minimize damage to trees on all projects. and follow all ISA and BMP protocols.


Section 35.050 Trees Advisory Board.
The Trees Advisory Board shall serve as an advisory body to the Parks Department and other cCity dDepartments
inmaking decisions pertaining to this Chapter. The Tree Advisory Board shall:

    A. assist the Parks Department in the development and administration of a community tree management
       program;

    B. review development applications that includes elements pertaining to community forestry, and provides
       recommendations to the Parks Department, Planning Commission and City Council regarding the
       applications;

    C. assist the Parks Department in establishing educational and information programs;

    D. in cooperation with the Lehi City Historic Preservation Commission, assist the Urban Forester in mark-
       ing notable or historic trees for preservation; and

    E. assist the Urban Forester in scheduling and planning an annual Arbor Day observance.



Lehi City Development Code                                                                               Page 35-
Community Forestry                                                                              Adopted 04/22/08

Section 35.060 Annual Plan of Work.

    A. An annual plan of work shall be prepared by the Urban Forester with communication and guidance from
       each department involved with the care, planting, maintenance, or removal of trees. The plan shall be
       updated every year and prepared in such a way that it meets the criteria for Tree City USA designation.
       The plan may address items such as species diversity, planting needs, Hhazardous Ttrees, insect and dis-
       ease problems, and a pattern of regular care such as pruning and watering.

    B. An updated inventory of Ppublic Ttrees, work performed, maintenance and future plans shall be kept by
       the Urban Forester and Parks Department and may be modified by the Urban Forester at any time.

    C. The Lehi City Tree Selection Guide, the Unacceptable PublicStreet Tree List, and the Landscape
       Specifica- tions and Standards shall be reviewed each year and may be modified by the Urban
       Forester.Parks Department

Section 35.070 Public Tree Care Specifications and Standards.

    A. A permit shall not be required for work performed by the city during their duties. The Urban ForesterParks
       Department shall direct all work being performed on any Ppublic Ttree. An ISA certified arborist must
       be on site when any pruning work is performed of any Ppublic Ttree unless otherwise approved by the
       Urban Forester. In- adequate or improperly trained personnel shall not be utilized for any work on trees
       beyond their capacity or ability.

      1.    Warning devices on streets and sidewalks shall be used as required by sthe State and cCity laws while
            work on Ppublic Ttrees or shrubs is being performed.

      2.    All work on Public Ttrees shall be performed according to the latest revision of the following national
            stand-ards and BMP’s:
           (a) A.N.S.I. A300 Tree Care Operations – Tree, Shrub and Other Woody Plant Maintenance – Stand-
                ard Practices;
           (a) ANSI Z133 Safety Standards – Arboricultural Operations – Safety Requirements;
           (b) Tree Care Operations Standard A.N.S.I. Z-133.1, Pruning, Trimming, Repairing, Maintaining, and
                Removing Trees, and Cutting Brush – Safety Requirements;
           (c) I.S.A. Tree Pruning Guidelines;
           (d) A.P.P.A. Safety Manual as adopted by the Lehi City Power Department; and
           (e) Lehi City Arboricultural Standards and Specifications.

    B. It is unlawful for any person to allow, permit or cause an entire Public or Private tree to be cut down or
       felled upon, over or across any public street, thoroughfare, sidewalk or alley without first obtaining
       writtena permissiont from Public Works. The Public Works Director may require a bond prior to
       commencement of work.

    C. All stumps of street and Ppublic Ttrees shall be removed no less than six inches below the surface of the
       ground. Any holes remaining in the ground shall be backfilled to the surrounding grade.
                                                                                                                        Formatted: List Paragraph, Space Before: 0 pt

    D. All debris generated from any tree maintenance operation shall be removed promptly. The work area shall
       be kept safe until all cleanup is completed. It shall be the obligation of the homeowner or contrac- tor to
       clean up any debris including any branches, trunks, chips, tree litter, soil, and gravel, etc. from thee work
       area and to dispose of such debris in such manner that it will not remain on city streets, sidewalks, gutters
       and storm drains; so that it will not flow into city sewers;, or that it will not have to be hauled off by the
       Ccity.

Section 35.080 Street Public and Private Tree Guidelines.

All street tree plantings shall be in conformance with the provisions of this Chapter and as follows:

Lehi City Development Code                                                                               Page 35-
Community Forestry                                                                            Adopted 04/22/08

   A. Public Tree Planting Permit Required. No person shall plant a street tree, Ppublic Ttree or other vegetation
      , or water wise landscape within the Public Right-of-Waya City right-a-way or City owned property
      without first obtaining a permit from the Parks Department.




Lehi City Development Code                                                                            Page 35-
Community Forestry                                                                                                 Adopted 04/22/08

        1.     Permits shall be free of charge.

        2.     Any Public Tree or vegetation planted contrary to the provisions of this chapterchapter or in violation
               of a permit, or any permit issued hereunder maybe removed by the City.

        3.     A permit shall not be required for work performed by the City or its agents during their duties.

   B. The Parks Department shall have the authority and it shall be its duty to inspect and approve all pro- posed
      Publicstreet Ttree plantings for residential and , commercial subdivisions and developments within the
      City.
                                                                                                                                               Formatted: Font: 9.5 pt
   C. Street tree planter strips shall conform to the current Lehi City Design Standards, Development Codes, and
      Public Improvement Specifications.                                                                                                       Formatted: List Paragraph, Justified, Indent: Hanging:
   B.                                                                                                                                          0.25", Right: 0.1", Space Before: 0 pt, Numbered +
   D. Street trees shall have a minimum caliper size of two inches.                                                                            Level: 1 + Numbering Style: A, B, C, … + Start at: 1 +
                                                                                                                                               Alignment: Left + Aligned at: 0.32" + Indent at: 0.58",
   E.C.The Parks Department shall develop and maintain a Tree Selection Guide that includes a list of allowed                                  Tab stops: 0.58", Left
       trees for planting along streets in three size classes based on mature height: small, under 25 feet; or me-
       diummedium between, 25 andto 40 feet;; and large, over 40 feet. Tree species shall be selected from the
       Tree Selection Guideand shall be appropriate to their location. Drought tolerant and pest resistant species
       are encouraged whenever possible and appropriate.

   F.D.        The spacing of Publicstreet Ttrees shall conform to Chapter 12 of the Lehi City Development
       Code. be in accordance with the tree species size classes listed in the Tree Se- lection Guide, and shall
       be spaced a t t h e e q u i v a l e n t o f a t l e a s t o n e ( 1 ) t r e e p e r 3 0 f e e t o f s t r e e t f r o n t a g e a n d
       may be clustered or spaced linearly by approval by the Lehi Parks Department                                                            Commented [RW1]: There's some funky formatting thing
       according to the following; small trees, 20 feet; medium trees, 30feet; large trees, 40 feet, except that                               going on here with this font.
       trees may be spaced closer together in special plantings designed or approved by a landscape
       architect.when required,. The Parks Department shall give special considerations and may change the
       spacing and species requirements to accommodate any utilityies obstructions or signage.

   E.        In order to minimize damage to public improvements, the distance that trees may be planted from curbs
             and sidewalks will be in accordance with Tree Selection Guide. Private trees shall not be planted within
             4 feet of sidewalk or curb. All all trees shall be centered in the park strip.
                                                                                                                                               Formatted: Font: 10 pt
   F.        Private Trees located on private property that abut any public sidewalk shall not be planted within 4’ of a
             public sidewalk, or public trail.                                                                                                 Formatted: Justified, Indent: Left: 0.33", Hanging:
                                                                                                                                               0.25", Right: 0", No bullets or numbering, Tab stops:
   G. Private Trees located on private property shall not be planted within 8’ of a pPower sSubstation wall .                                  Not at 0.58"
                                                                                                                                               Formatted: Font: 10 pt
   H.        No street trees or any , shrub or vegeitation that matures over 24” shall be planted within the clear view
             area at street intersections, nor shall a tree canopy extend within the clear view area as defined in Chapter                     Formatted: Justified, Indent: Left: 0.33", Hanging:
             12.070 D.. The clear view area is a triangular area formed by the streets at the property lines and a line                        0.25", Right: 0", No bullets or numbering, Tab stops:
             connecting them at points 35 feet from the intersection of the street right-of- way lines. The clear view                         Not at 0.58"
             measurement area may increase or be adjusted by the Traffic Engineer to meet the A.A.S.H.O.T.A.
                                                                                                                                               Formatted: Font color: Auto
             specifications.
                                                                                                                                               Formatted: Font: 10 pt
    I. No Public street Ttree or shrub shall be planted within ten 10’ feet of any fire hydrant, power transformer
       or driveway.
                                                                                                                                               Formatted: Font: 10 pt
    I.J. No Public Ttree or shrub shall be planted within 5’ of a water meter.
                                                                                                                                               Formatted: Justified, Indent: Left: 0.33", Hanging:
    J.K.            No Public street Ttree shall be planted within 35’ feet of a street warning sign.                                          0.25", No bullets or numbering, Tab stops: Not at 0.58"

   K.L. No Public street Ttree shall be planted in park strips less than seven seven feet wide. The Parks
        Department may may give special considerations and approve Public Ttrees in planter strips less than
        seven feet wide 7’.

Lehi City Development Code                                                                                                   Page 35-
Community Forestry                                                                           Adopted 04/22/08

   L.M.       It shall be unlawful to plant within any public right-of-way any Public Ttree on the current
       Uunacceptable PublicStreet Tree List.that is provided with a tree permit application obtained by Lehi City
       and found also on Lehi City’s website. Every Any person who shall plants any sucha prohib-ted a
       prohibited tree shall be required to remove it and plant an approved species at their own expense. .

Section 35.09089 Street Tree and Public Tree Care.

   A. The City shall have the right to plant, prune, spray, maintain, and remove trees and, vegetationplants and
      shrubs withinthe Publicstreet Rright-of-Wway and other public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure
      public safety or to pre- serve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public areas.

   B. Following consultation and recommendation by the Urban Forester, City employees may be authorized
      to maintain, remove, or cause to be removed any Ppublic Ttree, vegetation, or part thereof, including
      roots, which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is, or may become injurious to
      public utilities, sewers,




Lehi City Development Code                                                                           Page 35-
 Community Forestry                                                                              Adopted 04/22/08

      B. storm drains, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements, is an invasive
         species orf is infected with any injurious fungus, insect, or another pest. The City shall also have the
         authority to remove any Ppublic Ttree or other vegetation that has been planted in violation of this
         Code or any other ordinance of the City. The removal or cutting down of any Public Ttree on public
         property shall not be allowed without a city employee first ob- tainingobtaining written permission from
         the Urban Forester or designeeParks Department. Verbal or writtenWritten notice shall also be given to
         the affected adjacent property owner prior to commencement of work.

 Section 35.100 Street Trees – Private Property Owner Responsibility.
 Any property owner owner, citizen, occupant, and their agents of private property abutting a City planter strips
 inupon which Publicstreet Ttrees or other vegetation are located shall have the following responsibilities for the     Formatted: Not Highlight
 protection and maintenance of the park strip, Ppublic Ttrees, other landscaping, and sidewalks unlessexcept in those
 areas that are maintained by Lehi City :;:                                                                             Formatted: Not Highlight
                                                                                                                        Formatted: Not Highlight
     A. Oobtain a permit and follow current planting restrictions a planting permit before panting installing any
        new Public Ttree, waterwise landscape, or a re-landscape of any exist-ing park strip; ;                         Formatted: Not Highlight

      B. WPprovide periodic watering, fertilizeation, and minor pruneing of Publicstreet Ttrees when necessary
         to maintain clearance of limbs, good structure, healthhealth, and vigor in accordance with Lehi
         Development Code Sections 35.070 and 35.110; ;

      C. Pprotect Publicstreet Ttrees against damage caused by lawn mowers, weed trimmers, snow blowers, and
         similar equipment or attachment of any item such as signs, nails, wires, ropes, and chains etc. in
         accordance with 35.130by maintaining a ring around the tree free from grass, weeds, or other vegetation;
         and;

     D. Mmaintain the Ppublic Rrights-of-Wways and park strips, in a neat, clean, orderly, and healthyhful
        condition;. This is meant to include weeding, removal of tree litter, mowing of lawns, replacement of
                                                                                                                        Formatted: Font: 10 pt
        dead trees and plants and the regular watering of all plantings.;
                                                                                                                        Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.33", Hanging: 0.25", Right:
     E.   Maintain all vegetation either horizonal or vertical from obstructing pedestrian traffic onf a public         0", No bullets or numbering, Tab stops: Not at 0.58"
          sidewalk, alleyway, or trailway;.
                                                                                                                        Formatted: Font: 10 pt
     F.   Cleanup and remove fallen leaves or other debris so that these do not to impede storm drain systems.          Formatted: Normal, No bullets or numbering

     D. Trees and other vegetation located on private property are the responsibility of the respective private         Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.58", No bullets or
        property owner.                                                                                                 numbering
                                                                                                                        Formatted: Indent: Left: 0"
Section 35.110 Street, Sidewalk, and Corner Clearance.
                                                                                                                        Formatted: Body Text, Indent: Left: 0", Right: 0", Tab
The City shall have the right to require Tthe property owner abutting the Public Right-of-Way a city planter strip,
                                                                                                                        stops: Not at 0.58"
public sidewalk, street, or intersection is required to prune or remove any tree or shrub when it interferes with the
pedestrian use of a sidewalk, visibility of any traffic control device, traffic sign or the clear view area at          Formatted: Font: 10 pt
intersections in accordance with A.A.S.H.T.O. and the following provisions: ;
                                                                                                                        Formatted: Font: 10 pt
     A.    Any tree or shrub planted within a clear view triangle shall follow and be planted and maintained in         Formatted: Tab stops: 0.63", Left + Not at 0.58"
           accordance with the Lehi Development codes in Chapter 37 and 35.080.code.
                                                                                                                        Formatted: Font: 10 pt
     B.     EveryEvery adjacent property owner of any tree overhanging any Public Right-of-Waystreet or
           right-of-way within the cCity shall prune the branches so that such branches do not obstruct the light       Formatted: Font: 10 pt
           from any streetlamp, the view of any street intersection, or the ability of pedestrians to use the
                                                                                                                        Formatted: Left, Tab stops: 0.63", Left + Not at 0.58"
           sidewalk.
     C.    There shall be no tree planted within 35’ of an oncoming traffic regulatory or warning sign. V All           Formatted: Font: 10 pt
           vegetation such as weeds, trees, shrubbery, and other materials such as maintenance, utility materials
                                                                                                                        Formatted: Font: 10 pt
           and equipment shall not obscure the face of the sign or object marker.
     D.    There A shall be a clear space free of any vegetation or obstructions shall be maintained space of 14        Formatted: Font: 10 pt
           feet feet’ above the street surface and 8 eight feet above the sidewalk surface.
                                                                                                                        Formatted: Tab stops: 0.63", Left + Not at 0.58"
     E.    Property owners abutting a Public Right-of-Waycity plater strip or city street shall Rremove any
           Pprivate Ttrees or tree limbs that have fallen upon a Public Right-of-Waycity street or sidewalk.            Formatted: Font: 10 pt
 Lehi City Development Code                                                                               Page 35-
Community Forestry                                                                               Adopted 04/22/08

   F.   SuchProperty owners abutting a Public Right-of-Waycity planter strip or city street owners shall
        remove all dead, dangerous trees, broken or de- cayeddecayed limbs that constitute a dangermenace to
        the safety of the public within five days of notification of the obstruction.The City shall have the right
        to require the property owner to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with the
        pedestrian use of a sidewalk, visibility of any traffic control device or sign or clear view area at
        intersections. The property owner may be charged with the cost of removal or pruning.
   A.   Failure of a property owner abutting a Public Right-of-Waycity planter strip or city street to remedy any
        of the requirements found in this section may be The property owner may be assessedcharged with the
        cost of removal or pruning.remedying the issue.
   G.
        Violation of this Section may be prosecuted as a Class C Misdemeanor.
   H.                                                                                                                    Formatted: List Paragraph, Left, Space Before: 0 pt,
                                                                                                                         Numbered + Level: 1 + Numbering Style: A, B, C, … +
Section 35.120 Tree Preservation.                                                                                        Start at: 1 + Alignment: Left + Aligned at: 0.32" +
                                                                                                                         Indent at: 0.65", Tab stops: 0.63", Left
   A. Protection near Construction Activities. Any Public Tree tree on City property in the immediate vicinity
      of any ex- cavation, fill, soil compaction, demolition, renovation or construction activity site of any
      building, structure, or street work, which in the Urban Forester’s opinion has any potential for injury or
      damage, shall be pro- tected according to Arboricultural Standards and Specifications. Public TProtected
      trees shall be guarded with a substantial fence, frame, or box. Such protective structure shall be not less
      than four feet high and eight feet square, or at a distance in feet from the tree equal to two times the
      diameter of the tree trunk in inches measured 4½ feet above ground, whichever is the greater distance
      from the tree. All building ma-terials, vehicles, extra dirt, or other debris shall be kept outside the barrier.
      Tree protection shall be co- ordinated with the Parks Department both pre-and post-construction to
      mitigate damage to the tree and danger to the public. It shall be unlawful to engage in any construction
      work without first taking the steps to protect the tree(s) and any injury or death to the tree may result in
      reimbursement to the City. The value of the tree shall be pre-determined by the Urban Forester and made
      known to the contractor before con- struction begins in accordance withof Chapter 35.140.

   B. State of Utah Heritage Trees. Heritage trees are governed by the State of Utah and designated by the Utah
      Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands and the Utah Community Forest Council. Lehi City en-
      courages the protection of accepted and recognized ‘Heritage Trees according to Utah Code 65A-8-301
      et seq.




Lehi City Development Code                                                                               Page 35-
Community Forestry                                                                              Adopted 04/22/08

Section 35.130 Injuring Public Trees.
    A. Abuse orf Mutilation of Trees. It shall be unlawful for any person to:

      1.   dcut, carve, break, transplant, remove, mutilate, or otherwise damage or kill any Public Ttree on city
           property unless authorized by the City as part of an approved tree care or tree maintenance project;

      2.   attach any rope, hammock, straps, wire, nails, advertising poster, or other contrivance to any Ppublic
           Ttree;

      3.   allow or to place in or upon any Public Right-of-Wayparking strip, parking area, or public plat any
           gaseous, liquid, or solidsubstance which is harmful and damagingeleterious to the soil or vegetation
           andthat maycould come in contact with any tree, shrub or turf on city propertPublic Tree or vegetationy.

      4.   negligently, intentionally or, maliciously or through negligence to injure or destroy any vegetation in
           any Public Right-of-WayCity Park, street me- dian,median, planter strip, or other landscaped portions
           of a public right-of-way under the City’s jurisdiction, except as authorized by the Parks Department.

    B. City Property – Placing Materials Thereon. No person shall deposit, place, store, or maintain upon any
       Public Right-of-Waypublic property any stone, brick, sand, concrete, or other material which may prevent
       the passage of wa- ter, air, or nutrients to the roots of any Public Ttree growing therein, other than
       decorative rock gardens or other planned and approved landscaping materials. No unsightly materials
       shall be placed, stored, or kept on the planter strip within the Ppublic Rrights-of-Wway.

    C. Tree Topping. Topping of any Publicstreet Ttree, park tree or any tree on public property shall be
       prohibited. Public un-less specifically coordinated with the Parks Department. TTrees severely damaged
       by storms or other causes or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning
       practices are im- practical may be exempted from this section of the Chapter through a determination of
       the Urban For- ester.

    D. Replacement – Compensation. In the event any person removes, destroys, or damages any Ppublic Ttree
       except as otherwise required by Lehi Development Code Sections 35.089, 35.100 or 35.110law, that
       person shall be required to replace such tree with a tree of equivalent dollar value on public property,
       unless otherwise determined by the Urban Forester. If no suitable location exists in the vicinity of the
       tree removed or if the replacement tree is of lesser value, the person causing the tree to be removed shall
       make a compensatory payment to the City equal to the difference in value between the tree removed and
       any replacement tree.

    E. Devaluation. Any Ppublic Ttree that is determined by the Urban Forester to be damaged, but not
       sufficient-ly damaged to justify removal, shall be considered to be devalued. The amount of devaluation
       as determined by the Urban Forester in accordance with Lehi Development Code Section 35.140 and
       shall be paid to the City by the person causing the damage.

Section 35.140 Appraisal of Trees.
Anyone who causes damage or destruction to a Ppublic Ttree without proper in violation of this Chapterwritten
permission, shall compensate the City for such damages. The damages shall be determined by the City using the
methodology of the I.S.A. andCouncil of Landscape Appraisers at full appraised value. The cCity aAttorney, or
designee, may take whatever action is neces- sary in a court of competent jurisdiction to collect such damages
thatas are not voluntarily paid after assessment. Any funds collected for tree damage shall be earmarked for use
for tree replacements or enhancements. The val- ue of the tree(s) shall be determined by the Urban Forster by using
the methods of the most recent edition of the Guide for Plant Appraisals, published by ISA.

Section 35.150 Power Line Clearance Standards.
Rules in this subsection relating to the health and care of the trees and other vegetation within the A.P.P.A. Safe-
ty Manual as adopted by the Lehi City Power Department . All work on trees shall be performed in conformance
Lehi City Development Code                                                                              Page 35-
Community Forestry                               Adopted 04/22/08

with the BMP standards listed in this Section.




Lehi City Development Code                             Page 35-
 Community Forestry                                                                              Adopted 04/22/08


    A. As it relates to power line clearance work, a notice shall be provided to the property owner before any
       pruning or removal of private trees or other vegetation located on private property is performed. In cases
       of an emergency when time is not available to provide prior notice, effort to make written or oral
       notification of work performed will be done as soon as practical, after the fact.

    B. The power line clearance tree trimming crews shall have the right to enter private property in order to
       conduct work as described in the provisions stated in this chapter. Apart from pruning and removal efforts,
       all private proper-ty will be left in the condition it was found.

    C. When the property owner refuses trimming or removal of a tree that is necessary to ensure proper line or
       facilities clearance, any damage that is caused by the conflicting tree or vegetation to the Lehi City Power
       Department power system shall be the responsibility of the property owner. Any damage to pub- lic or
       private property and any bodily injury or death due to the property owner refusing trimming or removal of
       a tree shall also be the responsibility of the property owner. The property owner shall be re- quired to pay
       all monetary and legal damages and the repair costs incurred.

    D. Public Utility Companies. All public utility companies shall notify the Urban Forester or designeeParks
       Department prior to prun- ing any Public Ttree located on City-owned property for the purpose of
       maintaining safe line clearance and shall have a current ISA Utility Specialist Certification, carry out such
       work in accordance with ANSI A-300, ANSI - Z133 and , BMP Utility Pruning, and BMP arboricultural
       standards.

 Section 35.160 Resolution of Conflicts Between Trees and Structures.
 Where sidewalk or curb damage due to Public Ttree roots occurs, every effort shall be made to correct the problem
 with- out removing or damaging the tree. The Urban Forester or designeeParks Department shall be responsible
 for developing or coordinating corrective measures in consultation with the Public Works Director, City Engineer,
 and Streets Superintendent. The Urban Forester shall have the authority and jurisdiction of regulating the removal
 of trees and vegetation that cannotbe corrected without removal.

 Section 35.170 Replacement of PublicStreet Trees.
 Whenever Publicstreet Ttrees are removed from any Ppublic Right-of-Waystreet, avenue or planter strip, an
 adequate replacement shall be made by the person to whom permission for such removal was given
 installedreplaced within 1 year if it conforms to. The new trees shall conform to the Street Tree Selection Guide,
 Lehi Development Codes, and the Lehi Landscape Standards and Specifications. The replacement trees shall be
 planted within one year of the former trees’ removal . If a Publicstreet Ttree cannot be replaced due to current
 Lehi City Development Codes or the , Lehi Landscape Standards and Specificationsconflict with utilities, street
 signs or line of sight issues, a suitable tree may be planted within the Public Right-of-Wayithin the property with
 the approvalrecommendation offrom the Urban Forester or designee.

 Section 35.180 Dangerous or Hazardous Trees Conditions Which are Declared a
 Public Nui-sance.

A.         It shall be prohibited to knowingly keep or maintain a public tree, or private tree, shrub, or other         Formatted: Font: 10 pt
vegetation that is a danger or a hazard to other trees, other vegetation, structures , or plants or to humansthe
general public. because the tree is host to a communicable or destructive disease or because of the size, location,     Formatted: Normal, No bullets or numbering
or other characteristics of the tree..

      A. The following are hereby defined and declared to be a public nuisance:
                                                                                                                        Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.58", No bullets or
        B.1. Hazardous Trees;                                                                                           numbering

        1.2. any vegetation on public or private property that is dead, partially uprooted or blown over so as to be    Formatted: Font: 10 pt
             in danger of falling, or which serves as a host to a communicable or destructive disease or other pesti-   Formatted: Tab stops: Not at 0.58"
             lence and constitutes a potential threat to other trees;
 Lehi City Development Code                                                                               Page 35-
Community Forestry                                                                         Adopted 04/22/08


     2.3. the roots of any tree which cause the surface of a public street, curb, or sidewalk to be upheaved or
          otherwise disturbed or which cause damage to sewers, storm drains, electric power lines, gas lines,
          water lines, or other public utility lines; and




Lehi City Development Code                                                                         Page 35-
 Community Forestry                                                                                Adopted 04/22/08

       3. any public or privatenon-public tree or portion thereof which by reason of location or                           Formatted: Indent: First line: 0.45"
condition, interferes with any power transmission line, public street, sidewalk, or signage, or constitutes
an imminent dan- gerdanger or hazard to the health, safety or well-being of the public.


         4.        keep or maintaining a tree, shrub, or other vegetation that is a danger or a hazard to other trees,     Formatted: Body Text, Indent: First line: 0.45", Right:
other vegetation, structures, or the general public.                                                                       0", Space Before: 0.45 pt, No bullets or numbering, Tab
                                                                                                                           stops: Not at 0.7"
 Section 35.190 Abatement or Removal of Dangerous or Hazardous Trees on Private
 Property.
 Where a dangerous or Hhazardous Ttree is located on private property, the following provisions shall apply:

      A. Upon the determination by the Urban Forester or designeeParks Department or Risk Management that a
         dangerous or Hhazardous Ttree exists and that such a tree constitutes a public hazard, the Urban Forester
         or designee shall give written notice to the owner of the property upon which the Hhazardous Tree exists
         to trim, remove, or otherwise control such tree in such a manner as will abate the hazard.

      B. Property owners are responsible for tTrimming within 14 days of delivery of notice and shall bear the
         cost of trimming.or removal shall be done by the property owners at their expense within 30 days after
         the dateof service of notice. Failure to comply with such written notice within 30 days thereafter is a
         violation of this section. Once in violation, the City shall have the right to cause the trimming or removal
         of any trees deemed to be a public hazard on private property or procure abatement thereof and may
         charge thecost of removal or corrective action to the owners of record on the property tax notice.                Formatted: Not Expanded by / Condensed by

      C. Property owners are responsible for removalRemoval of a Hhazardous Tree tree shall be done by the                 Formatted: Font: 10 pt
         property owner at their expense within 14 days after the delivery of notice and shall bear the cost of            Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.58", No bullets or
         removal.date of service of notice.                                                                                numbering

      B.D.        Failure to comply with such written notice iss are a violation of this section. Once in violation, the   Formatted: Font: 10 pt
          City shallshall have the right to cause the trimming or removal of any Hazardous Ttrees deemed to be a           Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.58", No bullets or
          public hazard on private property or procure abatement thereof and may charge the cost of removal or             numbering
          corrective action to the owners of record on the property tax notice.
                                                                                                                           Formatted: Font: 10 pt
      C.E. Notwithstanding subsections 35.190.(A-D and BB, and C), if the tree is deemed to be an immediate hazard
           or an immi- nentimminent danger to life or property, the City may take immediate action to trim or
           remove the Hazardous Ttree and charge the cost of re- movalremoval or trimming to the owners of record
           on the property tax notice on the property tax notice..

 Section 35.200 Interference with Maintenance and Removal Unlawful.
 No person, firm, or corporation shall interfere with the City or persons acting under the applicable department
 head’s authority while engaged in planting, mulching, pruning, or removing any tree, shrub or plant along any
 Public Right-of-Way.street, right-of-way or public place in the City.

 Section 35.210 Penalty for Violation.
      A. Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter or fails to comply therewith, or who violates or
         fails to comply with any order made there under, shall be guilty of a Class C Mmisdemeanor, punishable
         by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment for not more than 180 days, or by both such fine
         and imprisonment. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation or permit
         it to continue. All such persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a
         reasonable period. When not otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions are main- tained
         shall constitute a separate offense.

      B. In addition to any criminal penalties that may be imposed, Lehi City may pursue civil penalties and res-
 Lehi City Development Code                                                                                 Page 35-
Community Forestry                                                                     Adopted 04/22/08

       titution for actual damages.
                                                                                                             Formatted: Font: 9.5 pt
   Section 35.220 Public Appeals.
                                                                                                             Formatted: List Paragraph, Right: 0.1", Space Before:
   B. Any decision of the City regarding this Chapter may be appealed to and heard by the City
                                                                                                             0.05 pt, Numbered + Level: 1 + Numbering Style: A, B,
       Council, following review and recommendation regarding the appeal by the Urban Forester and
                                                                                                             C, … + Start at: 1 + Alignment: Left + Aligned at: 0.33"
       Tree Commission. To be effective, a written appeal must be filed with the City Recorder within
                                                                                                             + Indent at: 0.58", Tab stops: 0.58", Left
       30 days after the decision of the City. The appeal shall clearly specify the reasons for which a
       hearing is requested. After the City Council has received a recom- mendation from the Urban           Formatted: List Paragraph
       Forester and Tree Commission, the City Council shall have the matter placed on its agenda for         Formatted: List Paragraph, Left, Right: 0.1", Space
       hearing and shall thereafter render its decision in writing. The decision of the City Council shall   Before: 0.05 pt, Numbered + Level: 1 + Numbering
       be final.                                                                                             Style: A, B, C, … + Start at: 1 + Alignment: Left + Aligned
                                                                                                             at: 0.33" + Indent at: 0.58", Tab stops: 0.58", Left




Lehi City Development Code                                                                     Page 35-
