                                CLARK TWO-LOT SUBDIVISION
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                            Applicant         Gary Clark
                         Meeting Date         January 11, 2024
            Requested Action/Purpose          Approval of a proposed two-lot subdivision
                        Decision Type         Administrative
                             Location         1460 North 1700 West
                          Project Area        0.92 acres
                      Existing Zoning         RA-1
    General Plan Land Use Designation         VLDRA
                    Existing Land Use         Single family residential
       Adjacent Zoning and Land Use              North R-1-22                Single family residential
                                                 South R-1-22                Single family residential
                                                  East R-1-22                Single family residential
                                                  West RA-1                  Single family residential
                     Date of DRC Review       December 13, 2023
                       Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                           City Council       Chief Building Official authorized to sign final plat


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

    Section 11.060. Two (2) Lot Subdivision with an Existing Home
    Two (2) Lot Subdivision Criteria. For the purposes of this section a two (2) lot subdivision is defined as a subdivi-
    sion which includes an existing home (at least five (5) years old) and where both lots can meet the criteria outlined
    under the “Urban” category of Table 12-060 and are in compliance with all other development requirements and
    standards with the following exceptions:
    1. The lot with an existing home shall be exempt from the curb and sidewalk improvements. However, this ex-
         emption does not apply to a 2 lot subdivision with a flag lot.
    2. Both lots shall be exempt from the Right to Farm mitigation requirements specified in Section 18.030 of this
         Code, including the agricultural no climb fence.
    3. In determining whether connection to the City sewer and water systems are required, the additional 150 feet
         (sewer) in Note 1 and the additional 250 feet (water) in note 3 of Table 12-060 shall not apply for the lot with
         an existing home.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

December 11, 1978          This property was annexed into Lehi City as part of the Lehi Meadows Addition.
August 22, 2023            This property was rezoned to the RA-1 designation by the City Council.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Clark Two-Lot Subdivision located 1460 North 1700 West in the RA-1 zone.

The proposed two-lot subdivision is not a flag lot, and both lots will need to meet the 100-foot frontage requirement of




Clark Two-Lot Subdivision
the zone, as well as the minimum 15,000 square foot lot size. The lot with the existing home is proposed to be 20,071
square feet and the new lot is 20,071 square feet. As part of the DRC comments, it was noted that Lot 102 will need to
meet the 100 foot frontage requirement of the RA-1 zone.

The DRC reviewed the proposed subdivision and had three redline comment, included below.

1.        Include final plat with the 2-lot subdivision.
2.        Lot 102 needs to meet the frontage requirement of 100 feet at the 25-foot front setback.

Please consider including the DRC comment in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Subdivisions are an administrative item that must be approved if they meet the Code requirements. The proposed subdi-
vision does meet the requirements. The Planning Commission reviews them to ensure all Code requirements are met.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed two-lot subdivision. Any motion should in-
clude findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed two-lot subdivision does/ does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
      gards to two-lot subdivision approvals.
2.    Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Clark Two-Lot Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         December 13, 2023

                                                     Clark 2-Lot Subdivision
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Gary Clark- requests review of the Clark Subdivision, a 2-lot subdivision with an existing home located at 1460 North 1700
West.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Arnie Hunt, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Gary Clark
Date of Plans Reviewed: 12/5/23
Time Start: 1:49 pm
Time End: 1:56 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
    1. RMP asset transfer required.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Arnie – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning:
2.      Include final plat with the 2-lot subdivision.
3.      Lot 102 needs to meet the frontage requirement of 100 feet at the 25-foot front setback.


PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)
PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
    Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
2. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
    improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
3. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
    supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
    necessary supplies for the development.
4. Prior to Preconstruction Comment - A Payment in Lieu of Detention will be required for lot 102
5. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
6. Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).
7. When lot 102 develops, a common plan SWPPP will be required
8. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
9. Address any comments or conditions from Planning Commission approval.
10. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Submit a title report to be reviewed by Lehi City Attorney.
4. Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
   property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         December 13, 2023

5.   Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
6.   All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JANUARY 11, 2023.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
