                             TABLE 37.080 OFF-STREET PARKING
                             DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant        Lehi City
                           Meeting Date         January 11, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation on proposed amendments to the Lehi City
                                                Development Code
                            Decision Type       Legislative
                      Date of DRC Review        November 8, 2023

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                             City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General Plan.
In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and the City
Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties.
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  REPORT ANALYSIS
Staff recommends amending Table 37.080 Off-Street Parking Requirements to remove the proximity requirement for
townhome parking, when townhomes are adjacent to on-street parking. The proximity requirement was added last
year to ensure that visitor parking is spread out throughout a development. However, Staff realized it does create some
challenges with space for power equipment and amenities. Staff also realized the parking proximity requirement does
not have the same need when on-street parking is available. This will not remove the proximity requirement when on-
street parking is not provided, and will also not remove the number of off-street parking stalls required. This just
allows more flexibility in the location of the off-street parking.

This item was tabled at the December 14, 2023 meeting.

The DRC had one comment to update the wording which was updated in the Planning Commission packet.




Off-Street Parking Requirements Development Code Amendments
 SCOPE OF APPROVAL
Development Code Amendments are legislative items and also public hearings. The public can share their opinions
on the amendments and recommend any changes. Ultimately, they would need the Planning Commission to include
the proposed changes into their motion.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendments to the Lehi
City Development Code. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed Development Code amendment will reduce the burden of requiring off-street parking near all
         of the units when the units already have on-street parking available.
    2.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provi-
         sions of the General Plan and its various elements.
    3.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Off-Street Parking Requirements Development Code Amendments
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          November 8, 2023

                      TBL 37.080 Off-Street Parking Requirements Development Code Amendment
                                               DRC Redline Comments

Lehi City- requests review of an amendment to the Lehi City Development Code, Table 37.080 Off-Street Parking
requirements, eliminating the proximity requirement for parking with on-street parking provided.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Ross
    Dinsdale, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner:
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/30/23
Time Start: 1:35pm
Time End: 1:40pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Ross – Engineering:
1. Change wording to read “This additional off-street parking must be within 250 feet of the assigned units.”
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEUDLED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON DECEMBER 14, 2023




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Chapter 37 Design Standards


                                          TABLE 37.080
                          TABLE OF OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
                 (Amended 12/12/00; 05/08/01; 10/25/05; 12/14/10; 01/13/15; 01/26/16; 08/09/16; 06/09/20; 08/23/22; 11/15/22)



                              USE                                                 PARKING SPACES REQUIRED

  RESIDENTIAL USES

  Single-Family Dwelling                                           2 stalls per dwelling unit, not in tandem configuration, and
                                                                   both stalls must be within a fully enclosed garage. Lots with
                                                                   less than 50’ of frontage shall provide additional off-street
                                                                   parking stall(s) at a rate of one space for every three dwelling
                                                                   units.

  Two-Family Dwelling                                              2 stalls per dwelling unit, not in tandem configuration.
  (see Sec. 12.130 B)                                              1 stall per unit to be within a fully enclosed garage.

  Three-Family Dwelling                                            2 stalls per dwelling unit, not in tandem configuration.
  (see Sec. 12.130 B)                                              1 stall per unit to be within a fully enclosed garage.

  Four-Family Dwelling                                             2 stalls per dwelling unit, not in tandem configuration.
  (see Sec. 12.130 B)                                              1 stall per unit to be within a fully enclosed garage.

  Multi-Family Dwellings – One bedroom or less (>4                 1 stall per dwelling unit which must be within an enclosed
  dwelling units)                                                  garage or parking structure
  (see Sec. 12.130 B)                                              1 additional parking stall per 3 dwelling units.
                                                                   All additional off-street parking must be within 300 feet of
                                                                   the assigned units.
                                                                   2 stalls per dwelling unit, not in tandem configuration, one of
  Multi-Family Dwellings – Two or more Bedrooms                    which must be within an enclosed garage or parking
  (>4 dwelling units)                                              structure.
  (see Sec. 12.130 B)
                                                                   1 additional parking space per 3 dwelling units.
                                                                   All additional off-street parking must be within 300 feet of
                                                                   the assigned units.
  Townhouses                                                       2 stalls per dwelling unit, not in tandem configuration, one of
  (see Sec. 12.130 B)                                              which must be within an enclosed garage or underground
                                                                   parking structure.
                                                                   1 additional parking space per 3 dwelling units if unit is
                                                                   adjacent to on street parking.
                                                                   1 additional parking space per 2.5 dwelling units if unit is not
                                                                   adjacent to on street parking.
                                                                   All additional Ooff-street parking must be within 250 feet of
                                                                   the assigned units with no adjacent on street parking.




                                                       37-111 Off-Street Parking
