                          WILLOW PARK CHURCH ZONE CHANGE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        Uncommon Architects
                                  Meeting Date         January 25, 2024
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                       change
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          Approximately 1500 North 2600 West
                                      Acreage          10.92 acres
                              Existing Zoning          TH-5
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          R-1-22
                 Proposed Zoning Designation           R-1-22
                            Existing Land Use          Agrarian
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North R-1-12             Single-family residential
                                                        South R-1-22            Single-family residential
                                                         East R-1-22            Single-family residential
                                                         West TH-5              Agriculture
                              Date of DRC Review       January 10, 2024
                                Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should
consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Willow Park Church Zone Change
     APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES




     PROPERTY HISTORY

February 21, 2018                   Property transferred to the LDS Church.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from TH-5 to R-1-22 on 10.92 acres
of property located at approximately 1500 North 2600 Wets. The General Plan designation of VLDRA is consistent
with the zone change request.

This zone change application is to facilitate the construction of an LDS Stake Center. Churches are a permitted use
within the R-1-22 zone, and would therefore match the proposed zoning.

The DRC reviewed the proposed Zone Change and had one redline comment pertaining to water dedication:

1.    Water dedication will be required as a condition of recording the zone change ordinance. The rate would be 0.79
      acre/feet per acre of culinary water and 2.9 acre/feet per acre of irrigation water.




Willow Park Church Zone Change
Please consider the DRC comment in the motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes that follow the General Plan must be approved unless there is significant evidence that doing so will
have a negative impact on the health, safety, or welfare of residents.

This is a public hearing item, meaning the public can speak on this item. Comments should focus on negative impacts
that could take place with the zone change.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Willow Park Church Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          January 10, 2024

                                        Willow Park Church Residential Zone Change
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Uncommon Architects- requests review of the Willow Park Church zone change, 10.92-acres located at approximately
2600 West 1500 North changing the zoning from TH-5 to R-1-22. Need envelopes

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Katie
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Darin Mano, Jae Hyun
Date of Plans Reviewed: 01/02/2024
Time Start: 3:46 PM
Time End:

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey– Public Works: No comments.
Brad – Engineering: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
1. Water dedication will be required as a condition of recording the zone change ordinance. The rate would be 0.79
    acre/feet per acre of culinary water and 2.9 acre/feet per acre of irrigation water.

Consistency with the elements of the Lehi City General Plan.

This area has a proposed VLDRA designation on the General Plan that has been filed concurrently.

Effect of the proposed amendment on the existing goals, objectives, and policies of the Lehi City General Plan.

From the Lehi City General Plan Land Use Element the following goals and policies related to development should be
considered:

    1.   Maximize opportunities to create an overall pattern of planned and orderly development with a system of land uses,
         adequately and efficiently served by a balanced and energy-efficient system of transportation, and community
         services that are sensitive to the natural physical qualities of the area.

    2.   Provide diverse economic and employment opportunities and encourage multiple scales of commercial development
         to serve the needs of the region, the community, and individual neighborhoods.

    3. Promote variety in commercial spaces, densities, and locations.


THIS ITEM BE SCHEUDLED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JANUARY 25TH.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                                      LEHI WILLOW PARK HER 23-2
                                      CONCEPT REVIEW NARRATIVE




DEVELOPMENT OVERVIEW
The proposed development sits on a 10.92 acre site within the TH-5 (Transitional Holding) zone. This
project proposes a 2-phase site development. The first phase is a Stake Center that hosts religious worship,
recreation, and administrative functions for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. The second
phase of the project will be the construction of an additional Meeting house on an adjacent lot. Phase 1 of
the proposed development is being submitted for review. Phase 2 is preliminary and subject to change.
Though we are happy to receive early feedback on the Phase 2, we are currently only applying for review
and approval of Phase 1.


PROPOSED BUILDING
The proposed building is roughly 24,000 SF and adheres to the typical vernacular of an LDS church meeting
house. The exterior is composed primarily of brick and features a variety of coursings. Additionally, the
exterior features minimal accents of EIFS. Capping the building is a roof that is to receive asphalt shingles
and a steeple that reaches roughly 70’ in height.


PROPOSED CC&R’S
The site currently causes two streets - 1400 North and 2550 West - to dead end at the bounds of the site.
The proposed development aims to connect those roads so that they meet and provide connection back to
1500 North. The addition of these street extensions would improve the connectivity and growth opportunity
of the neighborhood. The landowner would like to discuss the construction and ownership of the new
roadway. Please provide feedback on the preferred scenario for Lehi City (public right of way, private road,
etc.)
In the merging of 1400 North and 2550 West, the east side of the site becomes segmented and creates
areas of land that would be most suitable for residential development. The development proposes
subdividing that land into 6 plots that would be sold for future homes to be built. These proposed
residential plots would connect to the residential development directly east of the site and provide an
appropriate transition to the church.


SITE AMENITIES
Phase 1 of the proposed development features 360 parking spaces with 8 of those being ADA parking.
There is a sidewalk proposed along 1500 North that connects to the site walkways and building entries.
Large landscape buffers outline the site and building as well as break up the parking lot. The site also
features a pavilion on the west side of the site for added outdoor amenity. Lastly, there is a small utility
shed and trash enclosure proposed on the south side of the phase 1 development.


The intent is to connect phase 1 and phase 2 so that they are consistent with one another. In addition to
similar landscaping and utility features, phase 2 is to be provided with the necessary driving aisles and
street connections as needed. Review of the proposed connection and street access to phase 2 are desired.
