                         WILLOW PARK CHURCH CONCEPT PLAN
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant        Uncommon Architecture
                          Meeting Date         January 25, 2024
              Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and consideration of proposed concept plan
                         Decision Type         Administrative
                               Location        Approximately 1500 North 2600 West
                           Project Area        10.92 acres
                        Existing Zoning        TH-5
      General Plan Land Use Designation        R-1-22
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North R-1-12            Single-family residential
                                                  South R-1-22            Single-family residential
                                                   East R-1-22            Single-family residential
                                                   West TH-5              Agriculture
                      Date of DRC Review       January 10, 2024
                        Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission       Review and recommendation
                             City Council      Final Approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.

Section 37.010. Chapter 37 Design Standards – Nonresidential
        a. Architectural standards:
             i. Street facades:
                  1. The facade facing the street frontage shall include large clear glass windows on the street level
                      and smaller windows may be allowed on the upper floors. Opaque, heavily tinted, or reflective
                      glass is inappropriate at the street level, and shall not be used on the first floor of a building
                      facing the street (see Figure 117). When glass is tinted, it shall allow for a minimum 60 percent
                      light to pass through the window into the building.
                  2. A minimum of 20 percent of the facade area on the first floor facing the street shall consist of
                      glass. Where a building is located on a corner lot of two local streets, a minimum of 20 percent
                      of each facade on the first floor shall consist of glass.

             ii. Building materials:
                  1. Brick, stone, split face CMU, tilt-up concrete, architectural grade metal (see Figures 126 and
                      127), fiber cement, and wood may be used for exterior materials.
                  2. Stucco and EIFS may be used up to 40 percent of each wall area excluding windows and doors
                      as a secondary material only. Stucco and EIFS shall not be used on hierarchal architectural




Willow Park Church Concept Plan
                          features, pop-outs in a facade, or for wainscots, but shall be allowed on recessed wall areas,
                          walls between entrances, and between hierarchal architectural features (see Figure 128).

         b.      Site design standards:
               i. Building orientation
                       1. Buildings shall be oriented toward the adjacent public or private street with no off-street parking
                           or drive aisles located between the building and street sidewalk (see Figure 131).
                       2. Buildings located on corner lots shall be oriented to both streets with no parking located
                           between the building and the sidewalk of either street.
                       3. Buildings on properties with more than two street frontages shall be placed on the corner most
                           conducive to pedestrian travel. An area with a higher expected rate of pedestrian traffic could be
                           toward a transit stop or across the street from a complimentary use such as an office building
                           across the street from a restaurant.

    2.   Exceptions:

    Exceptions to Section 37.010 may be approved by the Planning Commission provided the following:

               i. The applicant shall provide evidence that the exception to the design standards improves the design
                  quality, walkability/bike-ability, or ability conduct the proposed use on the subject property, as
                  determined by the Planning Commission.

              ii. The applicant shall provide justification on how the proposed project fits in with the purpose and vision
                  of the design standards district in which it is located.

           iii. Exceptions may be granted to allow parking between the building and street, however in the Historic,
                Roller Mills, Urban Village, Mill Pond and Urban Tech Mixed Use Districts, any exception shall be
                limited to a maximum of one module of parking. In all cases where an exception is granted to allow
                parking between the building and the street, an ADA compliant pedestrian access shall be
                accommodated from the building entrance to the street sidewalk.

              iv. Buildings located on corner lots shall only be allowed an exception to the building orientation on one
                  side of the building with the other side of the building maintaining no parking between the building and
                  the street within the Historic, Roller Mills, Urban Village, Mill Pond, and Urban Tech Mixed Use
                  Districts.

  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Willow Park Church Concept Plan located at approximately 1500 North 2600
West. The proposed use is an LDS Stake Center and future meeting house. Currently, the applicant is only proposing
the Stake Center, and the meeting house will be completed in a future phase. The Stake Center will be 24,000 square
feet. The applicant is requesting exceptions to the Chapter 37 Nonresidential Design Standards for the 20% glass
requirement and the building orientation. The Planning Commission should consider the site layout, the elevations,
and the DRC comments.

Site Layout
The proposed layout shows two accesses off of 1500 North and one future access of 2550 West when it will be
constructed. It was determined there can only be one access off 1500 North to meet the 350’ spacing requirements
for a major collector. It is highly recommended by staff the applicant construct 2550 West to create another access.

Furthermore, the building is oriented toward the middle of the parcel along 1500 North rather than on the corner of
1500 North and 2550 West. The Chapter 37 Nonresidential Design Standards requires a building to be oriented to
both streets with no parking located between the building and the sidewalk if located on a corner lot. The applicant
is requesting an exception to this standard because of concerns over the parking lot layout. If the building were to be




Willow Park Church Concept Plan
oriented to the corner, the applicant feels there would be an overwhelming amount of parking placed on both 1500
North and 2550 West, and would not be aesthetically pleasing. The Planning Commission will need to determine if
an exception is warranted in this case.

Elevations
The applicant has provided architectural elevations of the proposed Stake Center. The north elevation facing the
street does not have 20% glass as required by Chapter 37. An exception is being requested for this by the applicant
as well. The layout of the building has the chapel facing the street, so it would be difficult to add additional glass to
the chapel. The Planning Commission will need to determine if there is enough justification to provide exceptions to
the design standards for the elevations.

Many of the architectural features comprise of EIFS finish. EIFS is allowed on recessed wall areas as shown on the
side and north elevations of the Stake Center. It is recommended by staff, however, that a different material be used
for the architectural feature on the northern elevation due to its visual prominence from the street. This would not
require an exception because the features are recessed, which meets code.

DRC Comments
The DRC had 22 redline comments, many of which were informational to the applicant. Some of note include:
1. Minimum access spacing on a major collector is 350' measured centerline to centerline. The proposed 2550 W
    road connection to the east will only leave space for a single access onto 1500 N.
2. Noting the access challenges along 1500 North, it appears the best scenario would be to construct 2550 West (or
    at least the western portion of the roadway).
3. 20% of the facade area of the first floor facing the street shall consist of glass.
4. Provide sidewalk connectivity between the two buildings and within the parking lots.
5. The building needs to be oriented to both public streets, so it would need to be shifted to the corner of 1500 N and
    2550 W. Unless an exception is granted.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a concept for a site plan or subdivision, this is an administrative item. If it meets the Code it must be approved.
The applicant asks for exceptions to the Chapter 37 Nonresidential Design Standards, including an exception to the
20% glass requirement and an exception to the building orientation. The Planning Commission has some level of
discretion to grant these exceptions.

This is a public hearing item. Comments focused on specific concerns and ways to mitigate them are the most
beneficial. The public should also be aware that the Planning Commission can only require those items listed in the
Development Code.



  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may provide a positive or positive with modifications recommendation to the City Council
on the proposed concept plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
    2. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Willow Park Church Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           January 10, 2024

                                               Willow Park Church Concept Plan
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Uncommon Architects- requests review of the Willow Park Church concept plan on 10.92-acres located at approximately
2600 West 1500 North.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Darin Mano, Jae Hyun
Date of Plans Reviewed: 01/02/2024
Time Start: 3:50 PM
Time End: 4: 20 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Line extension required.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
2. 14'' PI main and 12'' culinary main must be extended down 1500 north.
3. 6'' culinary main 8'' PI main 8'' sewer main 12'' storm drain on 1400 north.
4. 8'' PI main, 6'' culinary main, 8'' sewer main, 15'' storm drain.
5. Piping of the existing ditch will need Lehi Irrigation Approval. Existing pipe is 30'' RCP
6. Extension of utilities in 1400 North and 2550 West will be required to service future development and establish a
    looped water/PI system.
7. A fire hydrant loop line will be required around the State Center, design of loop line should make provisions for
    connection to future development.
8. Water, PI, sewer, and storm drain utilities must be extended in 1500 North to service this property. Water main will be
    a 12", PI main will be a 14", Storm drain appears to be a 30" (size to be verified) Sewer main is an 8".
James – Parks:
9. Suggestion: Consider moving the pavilion and recreation space to a more centralized area between the two buildings
    to contribute to a larger usable area, better visibility from both buildings, and fewer pedestrians crossing through the
    parking lots for activities.
Gary – Building/Inspections:
10. Soil report required if this moves past concept.
Shelbey – Public Works:
11. LTSWMP and Agreement will be required if this goes to site plan.
12. SWPPP will be required prior to precon at site plan.
13. Must meet 80th percentile retention requirement.
Brad – Engineering:
14. Noting the access challenges along 1500 North, it appears the best scenario would be to construct 2550 West (or at
    least the western portion of that roadway).
Luke- Traffic:
15. Minimum access spacing on a major collector is 350' measured centerline to centerline. The proposed 2550 W road
    connection to the east will only leave space for a single access onto 1500 N.
Kim – Planning:
16. One parking stall for every 4 seats in the assembly area. How many seats in the assembly area?
17. Stucco and EIFS shall not be used on hierarchal features, pop-outs in a facade, or for wainscots, but shall be allowed on
    recessed wall areas, walls between entrances, and between hierarchal architectural features.
18. 20% of the facade area of the first floor facing the street shall consist of glass.
19. Provide sidewalk connectivity between the two buildings and within the parking lots.
20. Recommend that access points to a public street utilize a flared approach.
21. Short-term bike parking will be required at one space per 8 seats in the assembly area. Include in parking tabulation.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           January 10, 2024

22. The building needs to be oriented to both public streets, so it would need to be shifted to the corner of 1500 N and 2550
    W. Unless an exception is granted.



DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JANUARY 25TH.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
                                      LEHI WILLOW PARK HER 23-2
                                      CONCEPT REVIEW NARRATIVE




DEVELOPMENT OVERVIEW
The proposed development sits on a 10.92 acre site within the TH-5 (Transitional Holding) zone. This
project proposes a 2-phase site development. The first phase is a Stake Center that hosts religious worship,
recreation, and administrative functions for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. The second
phase of the project will be the construction of an additional Meeting house on an adjacent lot. Phase 1 of
the proposed development is being submitted for review. Phase 2 is preliminary and subject to change.
Though we are happy to receive early feedback on the Phase 2, we are currently only applying for review
and approval of Phase 1.


PROPOSED BUILDING
The proposed building is roughly 24,000 SF and adheres to the typical vernacular of an LDS church meeting
house. The exterior is composed primarily of brick and features a variety of coursings. Additionally, the
exterior features minimal accents of EIFS. Capping the building is a roof that is to receive asphalt shingles
and a steeple that reaches roughly 70’ in height.


PROPOSED CC&R’S
The site currently causes two streets - 1400 North and 2550 West - to dead end at the bounds of the site.
The proposed development aims to connect those roads so that they meet and provide connection back to
1500 North. The addition of these street extensions would improve the connectivity and growth opportunity
of the neighborhood. The landowner would like to discuss the construction and ownership of the new
roadway. Please provide feedback on the preferred scenario for Lehi City (public right of way, private road,
etc.)
In the merging of 1400 North and 2550 West, the east side of the site becomes segmented and creates
areas of land that would be most suitable for residential development. The development proposes
subdividing that land into 6 plots that would be sold for future homes to be built. These proposed
residential plots would connect to the residential development directly east of the site and provide an
appropriate transition to the church.


SITE AMENITIES
Phase 1 of the proposed development features 360 parking spaces with 8 of those being ADA parking.
There is a sidewalk proposed along 1500 North that connects to the site walkways and building entries.
Large landscape buffers outline the site and building as well as break up the parking lot. The site also
features a pavilion on the west side of the site for added outdoor amenity. Lastly, there is a small utility
shed and trash enclosure proposed on the south side of the phase 1 development.


The intent is to connect phase 1 and phase 2 so that they are consistent with one another. In addition to
similar landscaping and utility features, phase 2 is to be provided with the necessary driving aisles and
street connections as needed. Review of the proposed connection and street access to phase 2 are desired.
