                        SYLVESTER HORSES CONDITIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Nick Sylvester
                         Meeting Date         February 8, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        196 West 2875 North
                          Project Area        0.59 acres
                       Existing Zoning        R-1-15
              General Plan Designation        Very Low Density Residential (VLDR)
                    Existing Land Use         Single Family Home
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North R-1-15                    Single Family Homes
                                                 South R-1-12                    Single Family Homes
                                                  East R-1-15                    Single Family Homes
                                                  West R-1-12                    Single Family Homes
                     Date of DRC Review       January 24, 2024
                       Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval
                           City Council       No action required


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.


                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest

Section 12.120. Supplementary Requirements for Agriculture and Residential Districts.
    1. Category Two Farm Animals. Category Two animals include horses, donkeys, mules, and burros. Other an-
    imals of similar size and impact may be allowed on a case-by-case basis with approval of the Zoning Adminis-
    trator. The keeping of Category Two animals is permitted limited to the following:
       (a) Stallions shall be adequately contained within a secure enclosure as to prevent escape from the owner’s
            property.
       (b) For properties located in the A-5 and properties of five acres or larger within the TH-5 and A-1 Districts,
            the keeping of Category Two animals is permitted with no defined maximum number.
       (c) Two Category Two animals may be kept for every half acre of lot area for properties located in the A-1,
            RA-1, R-1-22, and TH-5 Districts.
         (d) Two Category Two animals may be kept for every half acre of lot area located in any Residential Zoning
         District, subject to approval of a Conditional Use Permit. The following conditions may be required:
                (i) Corrals, pens, and barns shall be located in the rear yard of the lot.
               (ii) Screening from adjacent properties with the installation of a solid fence of six feet in height.
              (iii) Subject to all setback and maintenance requirements listed in this section of the Development Code.
              (iv) Any other conditions deemed necessary by the Planning Commission to mitigate negative impacts
              on a case-by-case basis.

    2. Setback Requirements. The purpose of these setback requirements is to buffer neighboring dwellings and
    public roads from animal facilities. These setbacks are as follows:
        (a) All pens and corrals less than 500 square feet in size and all barns, stables, stalls, and other roofed struc-
        tures used for the shelter and keeping of Category One, Two, or Three animals permitted shall be located at
        least 60 feet from residential dwellings or other buildings used for human occupancy located on separate
        adjoining lots, 30 feet from the residential dwelling of the person occupying the lot upon which the barn, pen
        or corral is located, and at least 25 feet from any public road.
        (b) No setback shall be required for any pen, corral, pasture, or other fenced, un-roofed, enclosure used for
        the containment of Category One, Two, or Three animals permitted that is greater than 500 square feet in
        size.
        (c) Coops shall be located at least 30 feet from any neighboring dwelling, or other building used for human
        occupancy and at least 25 feet from any public road.

    3. Maintenance. All coops, corrals, barns, and other animal facilities shall be maintained and kept clean as to
    prevent nuisances to neighboring property owners. See Title 6, Chapter 4, Article E: Miscellaneous Animal Reg-
    ulations of the Lehi City Municipal Code.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

January 20, 2005           Property came into the City as part of the Eagle Ridge Annexation

May 24, 2005               The City Council approved Eagle Ridge Phase 1 Subdivision


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Sylvester Horses Conditional Use located at 196 West 2875 North in the R-1-
15 zone.

The City Council recently approved changes to animal rights, allowing horses on all lots over a half an acre. Horses
were not allowed in the R-1-15 and smaller zones before this amendment. This application is the first to come through
since the amendment.

The applicant provided information that they desire to board two horses on their 0.59-acre lot. The horses will be kept
in a corral and a lean-to structure. The applicant provided images on what the lean-to structure might look like.


                                                                                                                        2
 Setback requirements exist for corrals and structures under 500 square feet in size. The corral does not need to meet
the setback, but the lean-to structure will need to be located 60-feet from residential buildings on other properties and
30-feet from the owner’s home. It appears that they will be able to meet this setback, but it will require it to move the
location from where it was shown on the application.

This property also has the unique challenge of a high-pressure gas line running diagonally through it. DRC informed
the applicant that they will need to make sure they are outside of the gas line easement where they put the structure,
the corral can be over the easement. The applicant also should easily be able to locate it outside of the easement. It
will just require coordination with the gas company.

The DRC reviewed the proposed conditional use and had the two comments previously discussed. Please consider
including all DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional uses are allowed uses under State Law. They must be approved as long as reasonable conditions can be
placed upon them to mitigate potential negative impacts to surrounding properties. Any conditions should be logically
connected to the horse use and mitigate negative impacts.

This is a public hearing item; the public can speak to negative impacts. Comments that include possible solutions
provide the most benefit. Any conditions would need to be included in the Planning Commission motion to be re-
quirements.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or approve with conditions the proposed horse conditional use.
Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed use can be located away from neighboring residential buildings and outside of the high-pressure
      gas line.
2.    The proposed use can/cannot have reasonable conditions placed on it to mitigate against the negative impacts.
3.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
4.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
5.    That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
      and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
      be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
6.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                        3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         January 24, 2024

                                                      Sylvester Horses CUP
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Nick Sylvester – requests review of a conditional use permit for two horses in the R-1-15 zone on a 0.59-acre parcel located
at 196 West 2875 North.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Ross
    Dinsdale, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney
Representatives of the Applicant Present: None
Date of Plans Reviewed: 1/16/2024
Time Start: 1:00 PM
Time End: 1:10 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections:
1. Work with Dominion Energy on the location of the structure on the property. Supply a letter from Dominion Energy
   with their approval of the location of the structure and approval to build, along with any restrictions, if given.
   Pauline M Caraveo LAND AGENT, QGC PROPERTY & RIGHT OF WAY pauline.caraveo@dominionenergy.com
   801-324-3437. Bradley Brown ENGINEER III, QGC HIGH PRESSURE DESIGN & PROJECT MGMT 801-324-
   3487




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         January 24, 2024

Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Please ensure that you meet the following requirement from Chapter 12 of the Development Code:
    All pens and corrals less than 500 square feet in size and all barns, stables, stalls, and other roofed structures used
    for the shelter and keeping of Category One, Two, or Three animals permitted shall be located at least 60 feet from
    residential dwellings or other buildings used for hu-man occupancy located on separate adjoin-ing lots, 30 feet from
    the residential dwelling of the person occupying the lot upon which the barn, pen or corral is located, and at least 25
    feet from any public road.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON FEBRUARY 8th




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
To Whom it may concern,

A conditional use permit is being sought to board 2 horses on the property at 196 W 2875 N in Lehi
which is a 0.59-acre lot. Per the new zoning, this lot exceeds the ½ acre minimum requirement to house
2 horses. These horses will be used for personal and family use only, not for any commercial or business
purposes. There are no expected patrons, employees, or hours of operation. The occasional vet visit is
expected as needed and about every 6 weeks we expect a Ferrier to shoe the horses, which will take
about 30 min.

These horses will be used for equine therapy and potentially for our children to participate in 4H or
rodeo. The primary purpose of said property will be for boarding. The horses will be transported
frequently to the North County Equestrian Park, which is only 2.4 miles away, for regular exercise.

Our home has a RV concrete pad on the east side where a horse trailer is parked behind a gate. The
horses will be loaded in the trailer from the RV pad to be transported to the Equestrian Park. No
additional parking will be required other than what is available in the driveway and RV pad.

We plan to build a 45 ft x 45ft corral in the northwest corner of our lot with a small lean-to structure for
protection from the weather. The lean-to structure will also include a small room to store tack and hay.
The lean-to structure will include 2 stalls to separate the horses as needed. The wind predominantly
blows from west to east across our yard so the opening of the lean-to structure will face toward the east.
Some grass will be removed, sprinkler heads/lines will be moved and adjusted, and the corral area will
be graded with screened soil / sand.

The location of the corral in the northwest corner of our lot is an ideal location to not disturb the general
welfare or convenience of any of the surrounding neighbors (shown in image 1). The lot directly to the
north sits about 2 ft higher than our lot and has a concrete retaining wall with a 6.5 ft fence on top. The
height of this fence will help protect the horses from weather as well as hide them from view. The lean-
to shelter will be built along the west fence line where we share a fence with 2 neighbors. One of the
neighbors has a large 2 story garage right up against the fence line spanning about 15 ft of the proposed
lean-to structure and the other neighbor has 2 large trees spanning the other 10ft, both of which will
hide them from view.

The lean-to structure will be constructed of treated lumber and metal siding, trim and roof. The
structure will be less than 200 square feet so no additional permits will be required. See images 2 & 3
below for examples of what it will look like. The corral area will be topped with a screened soil and sand
mixture to help with moisture absorption. A French drain will be installed in front of the lean-to-
structure to help reduce water from pooling. The corral will be surrounded by metal fence paneling from
Powder River.
Image 1. Location of the corral in the yard. The horse trailer is parked on the East side of the house
behind the gate and horses will be loaded / unloaded there. The lean-to-structure will be 15ft from the
northwest corner of the lot as shown by the blue box in the image below. This will keep the structure
outside the gas easement that exists. It will be directly behind the neighbors shed which will hide it from
neighbors view.
Image 2. Example of what the lean-to structure will look like. The opening will face East.




Image 3. The tack / hay room will be on the left side instead of in the middle as shown in this picture.
