                              SKYRIDGE SUBDIVISION CONCEPT
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant        Brent Ventura
                          Meeting Date         February 8, 2024
              Requested Action/Purpose         Review and approval of a proposed conceptual subdivision
                         Decision Type         Administrative
                               Location        260 East 2700 North
                           Project Area        4.07 acres
                        Existing Zoning        RA-1
      General Plan Land Use Designation        Very Low Density Residential (VLDR)
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North PF               Skyridge High School Baseball Field
                                                  South RA-1             Single Family Homes
                                                   East PF               Skyridge High School Driving Range
                                                   West RA-1             Single Family Homes
                      Date of DRC Review       January 31, 2024
                        Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission       Review and approval
                             City Council      No Action Needed


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.




Skyridge Subdivision Concept Plan
  REPORT ANALYSIS
The applicant requests approval of the proposed Skyridge Subdivision located at approximately 260 East 2700 North.
A previous concept plan came for review with the General Plan Amendment in April 2023. This updated concept plan
shows five lots instead of seven. The applicant also requests an exception to the standard cross section.

All the proposed lots exceed the minimum lot size for the RA-1 zone of 15,000 square feet. The frontages were not
provided but appear to meet the 100-foot width requirement, which will be verified with a preliminary subdivision.
With the previous concept plan the applicant asked for an exception to the maximum cul-de-sac length with the other
areas developed around it, this exception was granted.

The applicant now seeks an exception to the standard road cross section that includes a 7-foot planter and a 5-foot
sidewalk. The owner’s concept shows the 5-foot sidewalk integral (next) to the street. They ask for this exception to
providing planters because all the streets adjacent to it do not have the park strip. However, this is our current road
cross section that we require for all new developments.

The applicant also seeks an exception to the required sidewalk on the west side of the property next to the driving
range for the high school. They request this because no houses front the sidewalk, and the driving range is fenced off.
City Staff recommend working with the school district to allow access for students walking to school. Staff is happy
to start this conversation with the district. Staff recommend that the sidewalk continue all the way down lot 5.

The applicant provided two concept plans, one that shows their requests and one that shows the subdivision if it
meets the requirements with the planter strip and sidewalk. The Planning Commission as the approval body will
determine if these exceptions will be granted or not.

The DRC reviewed the proposed conceptual subdivision and had the following comments:
1. A 10’ PUE is required on both sides of all roads, public and private. A 15’ PUE is required where there is no park
    strip for water meters, hydrants and blow-offs.
2. The parks department does not want a tiny parcel to maintain.
3. Local roadway cross section must show 32' pavement, 2' curb and gutter, 7' planter and 5' sidewalk
4. On the park strip issue, Planning Staff would support the exception on the western edge, where there is no adjacent
    private ownership, but the rest of the cul-de-sac must meet the City's current standards of a 7' park strip.
5. On the remnant southwest corner parcel, recommend approaching the adjacent homeowner (BURDETT,
    DONALD L & JANICE J) to see if they are willing to accept it and extend their back yard. Another option could
    be to install a small neighborhood patio space. The group mailbox could be located there, maybe a shade structure.
6. Show a pedestrian connection to the Skyridge campus. The proposed layout requires an exception to the
    connectivity index, and exceptions call for a bike/ped access where a street doesn't punch through.

Please consider including all DRC comments in your motion.

  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a concept plan for a subdivision, this is an administrative item. If it meets the Code, it must be approved. However,
this one does have some exceptions they are requesting. The Planning Commission has discretion in granting the
exceptions or not.

The public may also speak to this concept plan. Comments about the impact of approving the exceptions or not would
provide the most benefit.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve or approve with modifications the proposed concept plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:




Skyridge Subdivision Concept Plan
    1. The proposed concept should/should not receive the requested exceptions because of the adjacent existing
       development.
    2. The proposed concept will still provide pedestrian connection to the high school.
    3. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
    4. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    5. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Skyridge Subdivision Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           January 31, 2024

                                              Skyridge Subdivision Concept Plan
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Brent Ventura requests review of the updated Skyridge Subdivision Concept Plan located at approximately 260 East 2750
North.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Brent Ventura
Date of Plans Reviewed: 1/24/2024
Time Start: 1:55 pm
Time End: 2:24 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
1. 8'' pi main and 6'' culinary main 8'' sewer main. no storm drain connection. 260 east.
Glade – Power:
2. A 10’ PUE is required on both sides of all roads, public and private. A 15’ PUE is required where there is no park strip
    for water meters, hydrants and blow-offs.
James – Parks:
3. The parks department does not want a tiny parcel to maintain.
4. It seems like having a sidewalk on the West side connecting the subdivision to Skyridge High School is in alignment
    with the connectivity standards and beneficial to the community.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering:
5. Local roadway cross section must show 32' pavement, 2' curb and gutter, 7' planter and 5' sidewalk. The City Council
    and City Engineer would both have to approve any exception to the road cross section.
6. Sidewalk should be installed and tied into the high school property.
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
7. On the park strip issue, Planning Staff would support the exception on the western edge, where there is no adjacent
    private ownership, but the rest of the cul-de-sac must meet the City's current standards of a 7' park strip.
8. On the sidewalk issue, the sidewalk needs to be installed along the entire length of the cul-de-sac, per City standards.
9. On the remnant southwest corner parcel, recommend approaching the adjacent homeowner (BURDETT, DONALD L
    & JANICE J) to see if they are willing to accept it and extend their back yard. Another option could be to install a
    small neighborhood patio space. The group mailbox could be located there, maybe a shade structure.
10. The proposed layout requires an exception to the connectivity index, and exceptions call for a bike/ped access where a
    street doesn't punch through.
11. Planning Staff prefers the "Current Cross Section" Concept Plan that meets the City's standards for sidewalk and
    planter strip. We don't see a reason this subdivision would not need to meet our typical current standards for public
    street improvements.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON FEBRUARY 8, 2024




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                                    Skyridge Parcel
                     Jason Mandelaris – Subdivision Revised Concept

                                     Request for Review of Revisions

The original concept that we presented to DRC and City Council was based solely on the existing Lehi City
Standard roadway section and the maximum number of lots possible. It did not incorporate any project
specifics. Now that we own the property and have begun to finalize the purpose of the subdivision and
some of its design details, we have seen a need to clarify the final number of lots and to request two
specific exceptions to standard designs. The exceptions we are requesting are an exception to installing
parkstrip and an exception to installing sidewalk along the west side. All of the clarifications are detailed
below.

    1) Our final subdivision will have only 5 lots (instead of the 8 original). As such, we will provide a
       subdivision with more open space than even the surrounding area. We are not selling lots to
       outside buyers to make a profit. We, the owners of the parcel, will build our own homes there
       which will constitute likely four homes to begin with and a potential fifth home in the future.

    2) Exception to installing parkstrip. As we have looked at the design, the road section that we are
       tying into does not have parkstrip. As we looked further, nothing in the immediate area has
       parkstrip including several new cul de sac developments directly to the east. In addition, our
       new road entering the subdivision will be directly adjacent to Alpine School District property (the
       Driver’s Training lot) and will have no homeowner that would take care of or own parkstrip. As
       such, Lehi City would own the parkstrip along the west side and would have to maintain it.
       Instead, we would like to request to not only eliminate the parkstrip on the west side, but the
       rest of the subdivision since it matches the surrounding neighborhood, we are providing
       extraordinary open space, we have to tie into a section with no parkstrip. Additionally, utilities
       can be installed in the road and/or PUE for every property. The City standards provide for this
       exception by requiring a 15’ PUE where there is no parkstrip.

    3) Exception to installing sidewalk on the west side. As we have considered our final design and
       the connectivity from the subdivision to other City infrastructure as well as the school facilities,
       it seems that a sidewalk on the west side of the road would be superfluous to construct for just 3
       lots. There would be no through-traffic on the street and no real safety issue with children who
       might live in these homes traversing the cul de sac and using the sidewalk on the east side. We
       have felt that putting in a sidewalk on the west side might create a similar maintenance issue for
       the City since it is not the frontage to anyone’s property.
