                      HIPPOCRATES SUBDIVISION ZONE CHANGE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        Kraig Johnson
                                  Meeting Date         February 22, 2024
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                       change
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          Approximately 3333 West 1500 North
                                      Acreage          8 acres
                              Existing Zoning          TH-5
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          Neighborhood Commercial and LDR
                 Proposed Zoning Designation           Neighborhood Commercial and R-1-Flex
                            Existing Land Use          Single-family residential
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North PF                  Future high school
                                                        South R-1-8              Future River Point phase
                                                         East TH-5               Protected natural area
                                                         West PF                 Fire Station 84
                              Date of DRC Review       January 17, 2024
                                Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should
consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES




Hippocrates Subdivision Zone Change
  PROPERTY HISTORY

December 16, 2020                   Kraig Johnson bought the property.

January 25, 2022                    Lehi City General Plan adopted by City Council.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from Transitional Holding (TH-5)
to R-1-Flex and Neighborhood Commercial. Specifically, five acres of the property are being proposed to change to
R-1-Flex to facilitate the construction of a 12-lot single-family subdivision, and three acres will remain on the west
of the property to be changed to Neighborhood Commercial. This is consistent with the General Plan as a portion of
the property is designated as Low Density Residential (LDR) and the other is designated as Neighborhood Commer-
cial. R-1-Flex falls within the General Plan designation of Low Density Residential. LDR has a maximum density of
4 units an acre, while R-1-Flex has a maximum density of 3.5 units an acre. Therefore, the requested zone change
meets the General Plan.

DRC Comments
There was one DRC comment pertaining to water dedication. Please consider this in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes that follow the General Plan must be approved unless there is significant evidence that doing so will
have a negative impact on the health, safety, or welfare of residents.

This is a public hearing item, meaning the public can speak on this item. Comments should focus on negative impacts
that could take place with the zone change.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS



Hippocrates Subdivision Zone Change
The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Hippocrates Subdivision Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          January 17, 2024

                                                 Hippocrates Cove Zone Change
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Kraig Johnson requests review of the Hippocrates Cove Zone Change, changing 8-acres located at approximately 3400
West 1500 North changing the zoning from TH-5 to Neighborhood Commercial and R-1-Flex.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Katie
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Kraig Johnson, Hua
Date of Plans Reviewed: 1/8/24
Time Start: 1:45 PM
Time End: 1:47 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey– Public Works: No comments.
Brad – Engineering: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
1. Water dedication will be required as a condition of recording the zone change ordinance. The rates will be:
            a. R-1-Flex
                     i. Culinary – 1.58 acre feet/acre
                    ii. Irrigation – 2.11 acre feet/acre
            b. Neighborhood Commercial
                     i. Culinary – 1.35 acre feet/acre
                    ii. Irrigation – 1.25 acre feet/acre

Consistency with the elements of the Lehi City General Plan.

This area has a proposed LDR designation on the General Plan that has been filed concurrently.

Effect of the proposed amendment on the existing goals, objectives, and policies of the Lehi City General Plan.

From the Lehi City General Plan Land Use Element the following goals and policies related to development should be
considered:

    1.   Maximize opportunities to create an overall pattern of planned and orderly development with a system of land uses,
         adequately and efficiently served by a balanced and energy-efficient system of transportation, and community
         services that are sensitive to the natural physical qualities of the area.

    2.   Provide diverse economic and employment opportunities and encourage multiple scales of commercial development
         to serve the needs of the region, the community, and individual neighborhoods.

    3. Promote variety in commercial spaces, densities, and locations.


THIS ITEM WILL MOVE FORWARD TO PLANNING COMMISSION WHEN CONCURRENT CONCEPT PLAN IS
READY.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
             Request for Zoning Change and Planned Unit Development (PUD) for Johnson Farm

This zoning change and PUD request is for the Johnson Farm located at 3333 West 1500 North, Lehi. The
parcel number is 58:025:0036 with total acreage of 8.35 and TH-5 zoning. The western 3 ac is proposed
zoned NCN (neighborhood commercial) and the eastern 5 ac is proposed zoned LDR under current general
plan. We request zoning changes for western 3 ac to NCN, eastern 5 ac to LDR (R-1-Flex) and approval of
PUD for the eastern 5 ac. We have been discussing the eastern 5 acres PUD with Lehi City Planning
Commission and considering this is an INFILL project. The north of proposed site is 1500 North Road, the
east and south of site is Jordan River, the west project site is NCN and Edge Homes River Point. A total of
11 lots are proposed with minimum lot size of 8937 sq ft and maximum lot size of 37280 sq ft. The
proposed pavement is 0.4 ac, open space is approximately 1 ac. The unit per acre is roughly 2.2. The
proposed project does not exceed the density allowed by the underlying zoning district (R-1-Flex). This is
a secluded subdivision with private gate and open space for residence enjoy the beauty of Jordan River.
With fast development of Lehi City, newly constructed Intermountain Primary Children Hospital is less
than one mile away, and future University of Utah Hospital in a short distance, this subdivision is a unique
site, providing modern high quality of residential houses as shown in the enclosed pictures. All proposed
11 lots are not within the 100-Year flood plain as shown on FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map. Lots 1 – 6
are in the Jordan River Protection Overlay Zone, and we are aware no permanent buildings shall be placed
within 50 feet of the top of riverbank. The provided open space is roughly 1 ac as shown in preliminary
site plan green, which is approximately 20% of the proposed site and will be maintained as the Jordan
River natural looking. The street will be gated and is privately owned by Hippocrates Home Owner
Association (HHOA). HHOA is responsible for maintaining open space, private street, 6’ walkway and the
dock of Jordan River. No public parking and access will be provided.

This PUD development (Hippocrates Cove Subdivision) will proceed in two phases. The street, and all
utilities, as well as lots 1 through 7 will be part of Phase 1. Lots 8 through 11 will be Phase 2.

Modern style architecture will be outlined in the CCR’s. It is anticipated that each home will have a unique
architectural design.

In summary, we request the western 3 ac change from TH-5 to NCN and request eastern 5 ac to change
zoning from TH-5 to R-1-Flex and approval of a Planned Unit Development.

Sincerely,




January 5, 2024

KraigJ@gmail.com

Cell # 801-808-7110

Enclosed maps:

Utah County Parcel Map

Hippocrates Cove Subdivision Site Plan
