              WHITMORE VEHICLE STORAGE CONDITIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        James Whitmore
                         Meeting Date         February 22, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        Approximately 4300 N Digital Drive
                          Project Area        Approximately 2.13 acres
                       Existing Zoning        Light Industrial
              General Plan Designation        Commercial
                    Existing Land Use         Vehicle Storage and Food Truck/Tent (unpermitted)
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North Light Industrial          Freedom Trucking School
                                                 South Planned Community Undeveloped
                                                  East Planned Community Rail Trail Corridor
                                                  West Light Industrial          Pool Storage
                     Date of DRC Review       January 24, 2024
                       Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval
                           City Council       No action required


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.


                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest


     PROPERTY HISTORY
March 25, 1996              Property came into the City as part of the Transwest Annexation


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of vehicle storage located at approximately 4300 North Digital Drive. The parcel for
this proposed use is south of the Freedom Trucking School parcel that received approval for Vehicle Storage in De-
cember 2023 and east of the JMR Vehicle Storage that received approval in January 2024. This is a similar use by a
different land owner.

The applicant provided a sketch plan showing the access and vehicle storage areas. They also label the type of vehicles
and show the location of a dumpster.

City Staff originally received a complaint about the vehicle storage which initiated talking to the applicant. The vehicle
storage at that time extended into the neighboring parcels which are zoned Planned Community but not part of the
Traverse Mountain or any other Area Plan. The applicant would need to rezone these properties in order to store
vehicles on them. They are aware of this and agreed to keep the vehicles on the parcel zoned Light Industrial. The
plans they submitted show compliance with this requirement. However, when this report was written vehicles were
still parked on the parcels.

These parcels do not have access to water or sewer which limits the landscaping potential. It also puts some limits on
the conditions that could be placed on the approval. Staff recommends including conditions that the vehicles are moved
off of the parcels not zoned for vehicle storage and that a fence or some sort of marker should be placed to delineate
the property line where vehicle storage is allowed from the other parcels.

The DRC reviewed the application and had the following three comments:
    1. Provide protection at existing power pole. (i.e. Jersey Barrier)
    2. Vehicle storage use cannot extend outside of this parcel boundary. Recommend a condition of putting up a
         boundary marker.
    3. Also include as a condition, that all vehicles being stored on the Planned Community property need to be
         removed.
Please consider including all DRC Comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional uses allow for public comment. The comments should focus on the impact of the conditional use of vehicle
storage and any conditions that could help mitigate against potential negative impact to surrounding properties.

The Planning Commission may at their discretion, require reasonable conditions.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed conditional use. Any motion should in-
clude findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed use is/is not very similar to other uses previously approved on surrounding parcels.
2.    Reasonable conditions can/cannot be placed on this property to mitigate against potential negative impacts.
3.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements


                                                                                                                        2
     in the vicinity.
4.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
     of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
5.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
     and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
     be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
6.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                       3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           January 24, 2024

                                                    Whitmore Vehicle storage
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

James Whitmore- requests review of Whitmore Vehicle storage located at approximately 4300 North Digital Drive in the
Light Industrial Zone.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney
Representatives of the Applicant Present: James Whitmore
Date of Plans Reviewed: 1/17/2024
Time Start: 1:10 PM
Time End: 1:20 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Provide protection at existing power pole. (i.e. Jersey Barrier)
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
2. Vehicle storage use cannot extend outside of this parcel boundary. Recommend a condition of putting up a boundary
    marker.
3. Also include as a condition, that all vehicles being stored on the Planned Community property need to be removed.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON FEBURARY 22nd

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
