         UTILITIES CHAPTER 39 DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant        Lehi City
                           Meeting Date         February 22, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation on proposed amendments to the Lehi City
                                                Development Code
                            Decision Type       Legislative
                      Date of DRC Review        February 7, 2024

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                             City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General Plan.
In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and the City
Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties.
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

Staff recommends a Development Code Amendment to Chapter 39 of the Development Code. Specifically, the pro-
posed amendment includes minor modifications to the definitions related to utilities/telecommunications. This up-
date is meant to clarify the allowance of telecommunications and update the Public Utility Building use to be con-
sistent with Chapter 5 of the Development Code.

These changes were requested by Lehi City Power as part of the Citywide Fiber project. These updates will serve to
prevent confusion over fiber and telecommunications. Additionally, the definition of Public Utility Building is being
updated to reflect what is already in Chapter 5 of the Code. Public Works and Power have utilized sites zoned for
Public Facilities and had Public Utility Buildings for storage and shops in the past.

We believe this will help clarify the interpretation of the Code by removing confusing or contradictory text. There
were no DRC comments on this item.
 SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Development Code Amendments are legislative items and also public hearings. The public can share their opinions
on the amendments and recommend any changes. Ultimately, they would need the Planning Commission to include
the proposed changes in their motion.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendments to the Lehi
City Development Code. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provi-
         sions of the General Plan and its various elements.
    2.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           February 7, 2024

                                                      Chapter 39 Definitions
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Lehi City- requests review of a Development Code amendment to Chapter 39, Definitions to include telecommunications as
a utility and clarify uses allowed in a public utility building.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Shaye R
Date of Plans Reviewed: 1/25/24
Time Start: 2:30 pm
Time End: 2:32 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON FEBRUARY 22, 2024.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
 Community Development Department –
 Planning Division



 Office




January 30, 2024

Narrative –Chapter 39 Development Code Amendment

The Planning Division is proposing a Development Code Amendment to Chapter 39 of the
Development Code. Specifically, we are proposing minor modifications to the definitions related
to utilities/telecommunications. This update is meant to clarify the allowance of
telecommunications and update the Public Utility Building use to be consistent with Chapter 5 of
the Development Code.

These changes were requested by Lehi City Power as part of the Citywide Fiber project. These
updates will serve to prevent confusion over fiber and telecommunications. Additionally, the
definition of Public Utility Building is being updated to reflect what is already in Chapter 5 of
the Code. Public Works and Power have utilized sites zoned for Public Facilities and had Public
Utility Buildings for storage and shops in the past.

We believe this will help clarify the interpretation of the Code by removing confusing or
contradictory text.

Please contact the Planning Division if you have any questions.

Thank you,

Jacob Curtis, AICP
Planner 3
Chapter 39 Definitions                                                                      Adopted 09/24/96


loans money on deposits of personal property or deals     Portable Storage Container – Generally a repur-
in the purchase, exchange or possession of personal       posed intermodal shipping container, which are avail-
property, on condition of selling the same back again     able in various modular sizes that can be conveniently
to the pledgor or depositor, or who loans or advances     moved, and not exceeding 8 feet in width by 40 feet
money on personal property by taking chattel mort-        in length or a total enclosed area of 320 square feet.
gage security thereon and takes or receives such per-     This definition does not include truck trailers, used
sonal property into his possession, and who sells the     semi boxes or other similar containers that have been
unredeemed pledges together with such new mer-            modified from a previous use.
chandise as will facilitate the sale of the same.
                                                          Portable Storage Container Sales- a location where
Permitted Use - A use of allowed by right under the       portable storage containers are sold.
provision of the Code.
                                                          Preliminary Plat - The preliminary drawing or draw-
Personal Services - A business which provides a ser-      ings, described in this Code, indicating the proposed
vice, such as a beauty salon, a barbershop, hair, nail,   manner or layout of the subdivision.
massage services and tanning salons. Also includes
microblading, fine line tattoos, henna tattoos, perma-    Preliminary Site Plan - The preliminary drawing or
nent cosmetics, and body piercings. Personal services     drawings, described in the Code, indicating the pro-
does not include Sexually-oriented Businesses or          posed manner or layout of a proposed nonresidential,
Body Art Facilities; except that a licensed and ap-       attached residential or mixed-use development.
proved personal services business may include body
art as a portion of provided services, so long as body    Premises - Land and/or buildings or other improve-
art does not comprise more than ten percent of the to-    ments thereon.
tal business and the body art facility is located to-
wards the rear of the establishment in an area sepa-      Principal Use - The main use of land or a building
rated from the rest of the business by a door that can    (as distinguished from an accessory use).
be shut.
                                                          Printing and Publishing Facility - An establishment
Pet Grooming Facility – A business dedicated to the       devoted to the processing, binding, or distribution of
grooming and care of household pets, including dogs,      reading materials including newspaper, periodical,
cats, birds, and other similar animals. This use does     book publishing, commercial printing, business
not include overnight boarding (kennel) or medical        forms, greeting card manufacturing, book-binding,
care (veterinary office) for animals.                     printing, typesetting and similar uses.

Pharmacy – A business where medicinal drugs and           Private School - An educational institution, not op-
medicine are prepared, preserved, dispensed, and          erated by a political entity of the State for which en-
sold.                                                     trance or tuition fees are charged for attendance.

Plat Amendment - A change in a map of an approved         Private Utilities - Includes power, telephone, natural
or recorded subdivision plat if such affects any street   gas, cable television, telecommunications, and pri-
layout in such map or area reserved thereon for public    vate water supply service.
use, or any lot line; or if it affects any map or plan
legally recorded prior to the adoption of any regula-
                                                          Public Improvement - Any drainage ditch or system,
tions controlling subdivisions.
                                                          roadway, parkway, sidewalk, pedestrian way, tree,
                                                          lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement, water
Plant Nursery – A business where plants are grown         or sewer system, or any other facility for which the
for transplanting or for sale.                            City may ultimately assume the responsibility for
                                                          maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
Point Source - Any discernible confined and discrete      improvement for which City responsibility is estab-
conveyance, including but not limited to any pipe,        lished. All such improvements shall be properly
ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, fissure, con-      guaranteed and installed as per City codes, specifica-
tainer, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding op-    tions and regulations.
eration, or vessel or other floating craft, from which
pollutants are or may be discharged.                      Public/Civic Use - A building or structure primarily


Lehi City Development Code                                                                         Page 39-12
Chapter 39 Definitions                                                                        Adopted 09/24/96


used for the provision of services by governmental or
public agencies, including the city, state or federal      Research and Development Facilities – An estab-
agencies. Typical uses include public administrative       lishment or complex of structures located in a build-
offices, animal shelters, maintenance facilities, active   ing whose dimension are intended to foster physical,
open space owned and operated by a public entity, fire     chemical, and biological research and/or experimen-
stations, police stations, utility buildings and similar   tation involving but not limited to controlled simula-
services.                                                  tion of factors, development of prototypes, chemicals,
                                                           commodities, pharmaceuticals, information technol-
Public Use - A use operated exclusively by a public        ogy, electronics and instrumentation for academic
body, or quasi-public body, such use having the pur-       and industrial purposes. Light manufacturing may be
pose of serving the public health, safety, or general      included as an ancillary use depending on the impact
welfare, and including uses such as public schools,        of activity on neighboring property and scale of the
parks, playgrounds, and other recreational facilities,     premises.
administrative and service facilities.
                                                           Restaurant - A building in which food is prepared
Public Utility - Any company, or municipal depart-         and served for consumption within the premises.
ment, duly authorized to furnish under public regula-      Typical uses include buffets; cafes; cafeterias; cater-
tion, electricity, gas, steam, telephonetelecommuni-       ers; coffee shops; dairy bars; diners; dining rooms;
cations, and transportation,. water, or sewer service.     dinner theaters; fast food restaurants; food bars; fro-
                                                           zen custard, ice cream and yogurt stores; luncheon-
Public Utility Building - Any buildings or premises        ettes; pizza parlors and pizzerias; sandwich bars; and
used for the administration of public utility repair,      snack shops. Alcohol may be served on the premises;
maintenance and installation crews, including park-        however revenue from food sales shall constitute at
ing for vehicles not to exceed two tons rated capacity.    least 50 percent of the total business revenue.
Can also include shops and storage areas as specified
in Chapter 5 of this Code., but not including ware-        Retail Sales, General - An establishment primarily
houses or storage yards.                                   engaged in the sale or rental of commonly used goods
                                                           and merchandise for personal or household use, but
Recreation, Private - A recreation facility operated       excluding those classified more specifically in this
on private property and not open to the public, includ-    section. Typical uses include department stores,
ing recreation facilities owned by a homeowner or          sporting goods stores, home furnishings, electronics
home owners association for private use by members.        and appliances, wallpaper, indoor powersports and
                                                           marine vehicle sales (See Section 12.130 (M)), car-
Recreation, Public - A recreation facility or service      peting and floor-covering, or automotive parts and ac-
provided through the use of recreational facilities,       cessories excluding service and installation.
systems or improvements operated by a public agency
and open to the public with or without a fee.              Ridgeline - An area including the crest of a hill or
                                                           slope and a vertical, perpendicular distance of 150
Recycling Center - A building, structure or land area      feet on either side of the crest.
used for the collection, processing or transfer of recy-
clable materials such as glass, paper, plastic, cans, or   Right-of-Way - Land acquired and owned by a gov-
other household scrap materials.                           ernmental agency or public utility and reserved for
                                                           public use.
Recycling Collection Station – A building or struc-
ture used for the collection of recyclable materials       Rock, Sand, Gravel, and Topsoil Storage and Dis-
such as glass, paper, plastic, cans, or other household    tribution - a facility that stores and sells rock, sand,
scrap materials.                                           gravel, and topsoil. This use includes all associated
                                                           screening, transportation, and distribution infrastruc-
                                                           ture, but does not include mining.
Rehabilitation and Treatment Facility, Drug and
Alcohol - A 24-hour group living environment for in-
dividuals unrelated to the owner or operator that of-      School - Any building or part thereof that is designed,
fers room or board and specialized treatment, rehabil-     constructed or used for education or instruction,
itation, or habilitation services for persons with cur-    whether public or private, in any branch of
rent chemical dependencies.


Lehi City Development Code                                                                           Page 39-13
