                                        PINEDA ZONE CHANGE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        Rose Alvarado
                                  Meeting Date          February 22, 2024
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                       change
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          59 N 500 W
                                      Acreage          .65 acres
                              Existing Zoning          RA-1
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          Commercial
                 Proposed Zoning Designation           Commercial
                            Existing Land Use          Residential
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North RA-1              Residential Agricultural
                                                        South MU                Commercial/ Residential
                                                         East RA-1              Residential Agricultural
                                                         West A-1               Agricultural
                              Date of DRC Review       February 7, 2024
                                Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should
consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES




Pineda Zone Change
  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872- This property was incorporated with the original boundaries of Lehi City.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from RA-1 (Residential Agriculture)
to Commercial on 0.65 acres located at 59 N 500 W. This will allow the property to facilitate and explore future
redevelopment opportunities. This zone change request is in line with the City’s General Plan designation for the
property. This change is consistent with the surrounding area as well, which has a mix of residential and commercial
uses.

There were no DRC comments.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes that follow the General Plan must be approved unless there is significant evidence that doing so will
have a negative impact on the health, safety, or welfare of residents.

This is a public hearing item, meaning the public can speak on this item. Comments should focus on negative impacts
that could take place with the zone change.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.



Pineda Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           February 7, 2024

                                                      Pineda Zone Change
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Rose Alvarado- requests review of the Pineda Zone Change, changing the zoning on 0.65 acres of property at 59 N 500 W
from RA-1 to Commercial.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, Trent Dyer
Assigned Planner: Jacob
Representatives of the Applicant Present: None
Date of Plans Reviewed: 1/30/24
Time Start: 1:05 pm
Time End: 1:10 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON FEBRUARY 22, 2024.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
