         HOMESTEAD ESTATES SUBDIVISION PLAT AMENDMENT
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant        Garrett Cammans
                          Meeting Date         February 22, 2024
              Requested Action/Purpose         Approval of a proposed plat amendment
                               Location        1403 N 2020 W
      Existing General Plan Designation        VLDRA
                        Existing Zoning        A-1
                     Existing Land Use         Single family residential
                  Number of Lots/Units         3 lots
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North A-1                   Single family residential
                                                  South R-1-22                Staten Farms Plat A Subdivision
                                                   East RA-1                  Scottfield Acres Subdivision
                                                   West A-1                   Single family residential
                     Date of DRC Review        January 31, 2024
                       Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission         Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.330. Vacating, Altering, or Amending a Recorded Subdivision Plat. (Amended 01/23/24)

The Planning Commission, following review by the Reviewing Departments, shall be the Land Use Authority for
approving any proposed vacation, alteration, or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision
plat, or any road or lot contained in a subdivision plat. The Planning Commission shall follow all requirements
and procedures identified in Utah State Code Section 10-9a-608.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

December 11, 1978           Property was included as part of the Lehi Meadows Addition.

October 12, 2023            The Homestead Estates 2-Lot Subdivision was approved by the Planning Commission.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval of a plat amendment to the Homestead Estates Plat B subdivision. This plat
amendment is being proposed to change the subdivision from two lots to three lots. The addition of the lot resulted
in the needed extension of 2020 West to the property line of the existing home and a bulb temporary turnaround.
Like the original subdivision, it will still be required that the road continues to the west and north if any additional
subdividing occurs.

These parcels are designated as A-1, meaning the lot size must be a minimum of one acre. Lots 103 and 101 both
meet that requirement. At DRC, staff realized that a zone change was needed for Lot 102 to change it to R-1-22
zoning because the lot size was below the one-acre threshold. The zone change will need to be approved by the City
Council and recorded at the County before the plat amendment can be recorded.
The DRC had eight redline comments, including the following:

1.    On the road dedication note on the roadway area, remove the words "to be" since the dedication will take place as
      part of the plat recording process.
2.    More detailed survey information should be shown on lot 102 to establish the location of the temporary turn around
      easement - Final Plat
3.    Update notes for setbacks on Lot 101. Show front and rear setbacks. 30’ rear and 25’ front.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed plat amendment. Any motion should include
findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The proposed subdivision meets/does not meet the requirements of the Development Code.
      2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public meeting.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           January 31, 2024

                                                       Homestead Estates
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Garrett Cammans- requests review of a Plat Amendment for the Homestead Estates, creating three lots to replace the two
existing lots.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Garrett Cammans
Date of Plans Reviewed: 01/24/24
Time Start: 2:45 pm
Time End: 3:25 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments. Prior to pre-con: need load sheets for services.
Garion – Fire:
1. Insert temp turnaround detail.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
2. 2% slope per lehi city standards.
3. label all utilities stub sizes on plan set for lot 102, 103
4. Add note to plans that temporary curb in turn around needs to be Modified Curb.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Brad – Engineering:
5. More detailed survey information should be shown on lot 102 to establish the location of the temporary turn around
    easement - Final Plat
6. Update notes for setbacks on Lot 101. Show front and rear setbacks. 30’ rear and 25’ front.
7. Change note to read:
    "Temp. turn around easement (3" thick asphalt or 6" thick concrete sidewalk with 6" Roadbase req'd)." - Site Utility
    Plan
Luke- Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
8. On the road dedication note on the roadway area, remove the words "to be" since the dedication will take place as part
    of the plat recording process.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON FEBRUARY 22, 2024 PENDING
SUBMITTAL OF ZONE CHANGE.

PRIOR TO PRECONSTRUCTION AND RECORDING
   1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
      Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
   2. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and
      private improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
   3. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water
      system supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can
      order all necessary supplies for the development.
   4. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
   5. Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).
   6. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
      scheduled
   7. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
   8. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
