                                          JDXIII ZONE CHANGE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        Mark Skousen
                                  Meeting Date         February 22, 2024
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                       change
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          Approximately 1070 West State Street
                                      Acreage          1.01 acres
                              Existing Zoning          MU
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          C-H
                 Proposed Zoning Designation           C-H
                            Existing Land Use          Undeveloped
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North MU                    I-15
                                                        South R-1-8                Gateway Subdivision Plats
                                                         East MU                   I-15
                                                         West C                    UDOT Park and Ride
                              Date of DRC Review       January 31, 2024
                                Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should
consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES




JDXIII Zone Change
     PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872 – This property was incorporated as part of the original boundaries of Lehi City.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from MU (Mixed Use) to C-H
(Heavy Commercial) on 1.01 acres located at approximately 1070 West State Street. The applicant would like to
develop three properties into automobile service and repair and in order to do that they need to rezone the properties.

The proposed zone change is consistent with the General Plan designation of Heavy Commercial.

The DRC reviewed the proposed zone change and had three comments, including the following:

1.    Update narrative to clarify that zone change is to C-H (Heavy Commercial)

Please consider DRC comments in the motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes that follow the General Plan must be approved unless there is significant evidence that doing so will
have a negative impact on the health, safety, or welfare of residents.

This is a public hearing item, meaning the public can speak on this item. Comments should focus on negative impacts
that could take place with the zone change.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
      2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
      3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
           properties;
      4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
           by the General Plan;
      5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
           uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
      6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




JDXIII Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           January 31, 2024

                                                      JD XIII Zone Change
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Mark Skousen- requests review of the JD XIII zone change on 1.01-acres located at approximately 1070 West State Street
changing the zoning from Mixed Use to C-H (Heavy Commercial).

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob
Representatives of the Applicant Present: None
Date of Plans Reviewed: 1/22/24
Time Start: 2:26 pm
Time End: 2:30 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering:
1. Right of Access must be confirmed with UDOT at the time of Site Plan Development
2. Informational Only - we have a corridor agreement with UDOT for a future signal at 1800 N @ State St if
    redevelopment on the northeast justified. (Luke)
Kim – Planning:
3. Update narrative to clarify that zone change is to C-H (Heavy Commercial)



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON FEBRUARY 22, 2024.

(NEED ENVELOPES BEFORE SCHEDULING)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
