                   CHAPTER 11 DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                                     PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                 Applicant        Lehi City
                             Meeting Date         February 22, 2024
                  Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation on proposed amendments to the Lehi City
                                                  Development Code
                              Decision Type       Legislative
                        Date of DRC Review        February 7, 2024

                                                 REQUIRED ACTION
                       Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                               City Council       Final approval


     APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General Plan.
In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and the City
Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

      1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
      2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
      3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
           properties.
      4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
           the General Plan;
      5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
           for nearby and adjoining properties;
      6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
           and
      7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

Lehi City proposes a change to Chapter 11, Application Requirements, of the Development Code to specify that for
townhome and condominium plats all the limited common areas, streets and drives are designated as public utility
easements.

The DRC reviewed the proposed change and had one redline comment:

1.    Do we need to add some wording in here to include our Public Utility and Roadway Construction Easement
      (PU&RCE) annotations? I don't know of any other location where we indicate that we are requiring these.

This change is being incorporated by staff.
 SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Development Code Amendments are discretionary items. Meaning the Planning Commission and ultimately City
Council can request any changes or deny the proposed changes.

The public also can comment on these changes and request changes to be made. The Planning Commission or City
Council would have to include the changes in their motion.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendments to the Lehi
City Development Code. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed Development Code Amendment codifies the requirement for easements throughout a site to
         service with utilities and roadways.
    2.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provi-
         sions of the General Plan and its various elements.
    3.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           February 7, 2024

                                             Chapter 11 Application Requirements
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Lehi City- requests review of a Development Code amendment to Chapter 11, Application Requirements to include all
common and limited common areas in condo and townhome projects as public utility easements to allow access for
fiber/telecommunications.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Kim
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Shaye R
Date of Plans Reviewed: 1/30/24
Time Start: 2:32 pm
Time End: 2:35 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering:
1. Do we need to add some wording in here to include our Public Utility and Roadway Construction Easement
    (PU&RCE) annotations? I don't know of any other location where we indicate that we are requiring these.
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON FEBRUARY 22, 2024.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Chapter 11 Development Application Requirements                                           Adopted 9/24/96


    5. a notation of any adjoining plats or certifi-       open space, created by the subdivision with their
    cates of survey and titles thereto;                    boundary, bearings, lengths, widths, name, num-
                                                           ber, or purpose, including for curved boundaries,
    6. the exterior boundaries of the platted area,        the curve radius, central angle, and length of arc;
    giving lengths and bearings of the boundary
    lines, and if the subdivision is bounded by a wa-      11. an indication of lot areas in square feet;
    ter body or watercourse, a closing meander trav-
    erse of that boundary;                                 12. lots consecutively numbered or lettered in
                                                           alphabetical order;
    7. where curving boundaries are used, suffi-
    cient data to establish the boundary on angle, and     13. proposed addresses shown on each lot, with
    arc length, showing proper closures in all bound-      corner lots showing two addresses, as obtained
    aries of the subdivision, and no final plat will be    from the Lehi City Planning Division;
    approved that shows a plus or minus distance for
    closure;                                               14. all proposed new streets named or numbered
                                                           in accordance with the street naming and num-
    8. location of existing easements or rights-of-        bering system of the City;
    way, including those contiguous to the platted
    area, their nature, width, and the book and page       15. location and names of adjacent properties
    number of their recording in the County's rec-         and property owners and platted subdivisions;
    ords;
                                                           16. location of zoning boundary lines within and
    9.   location of proposed easements including:         adjacent to the proposed subdivision;
                                                                                                                 Formatted: List Paragraph, Left, No bullets or numbering,
         (a) any required easements for water,             17. location of all existing homes or buildings       Tab stops: Not at -1" + -0.5" + 0" + 0.5" + 0.75"
         sewer, drainage or irrigation, telecommuni-       within the proposed subdivision that are to re-       Formatted
         cations,                                          main;
         (b) temporary turnaround easements and
         (c) a ten-foot public utility easement shown      18. all existing monuments found during the
         along front lot lines and any rear or side lot    course of the survey, including a physical de-
         lines adjacent to a public right-of-way, or as    scription such as "brass cap";
         otherwise required by the City to accommo-
         date necessary public utilities;                  19. all monuments erected or to be erected, in-
         (d) A fifteen foot public utility easement        cluding corners and other points established in
         shall be required on both sides of a private      the field, with the monuments made of brass and
         roadway, alley, or access way where there is      the legend indicating the diameter, length, and
         not a planter strip.                              weight of the monuments, and all exterior bound-
         (e) Adequate building set-back distance to        ary angle points of the subdivision and lot cor-
         accommodate code mandated clearances to           ners marked in accordance with the Lehi City
         various utilities is required. The public util-   Design Standards and Public Improvements
         ity easement shall be free and clear of per-      Specifications including brass pins in the back of
         manent structures including but not limited       curb for all front property lines;
         to: building footings, foundation walls, win-
         dow wells, retaining walls, retention and de-     20. location, type, and height of any new fenc-
         tention facilities, geotextile reinforcing, and   ing, berming, or other buffering to be installed as
         tie-backs.                                        part of the development, including any fencing
         9.(f) All common areas, limited common ar-        required to comply with Chapter 18, Right to
         eas, and streets or drives in townhome or         Farm indicating new fencing on the Final Plat
         condominium projects shall also be desig-         and new and existing fencing on the construction
         nated as to serve as public utility easements.    drawings;
         This easement requirement does not pre-
         clude the ability to construct amenities in       21. a notation of the distance from the asphalt
         common areas such as a clubhouse, pavilion,       centerline of each existing road to the new prop-
         pool, etc.                                        erty line of the subdivision;

    10. all lots, blocks, and rights-of-way, including     22. a detail diagram showing typical setbacks

Lehi City Development Code                                                                         Page 11-8
