                     HIPPOCRATES SUBDIVISION CONCEPT PLAN
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant        Kraig Johnson
                          Meeting Date         February 22, 2024
              Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed concept
                         Decision Type         Administrative
                               Location        Approximately 3333 West 1500 North
                           Project Area        4.96 acres
                        Existing Zoning        TH-5
      General Plan Land Use Designation        LDR
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North PF                Future high school
                                                  South R-1-8             Future River Point phase
                                                   East TH-5              Protected natural area
                                                   West PF                Fire Station 84
                      Date of DRC Review       January 31, 2024
                        Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission       Review and recommendation
                             City Council      Final Approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.

Section 36-B.060. River Buffer.
A. The Jordan River Overlay Zone implements a river buffer as identified on the Lehi City General Plan Land Use
    Map. The final boundary of the river buffer will be determined on a case-by-case basis at the time of development
    based on existing site features.

B. Single family homes shall not be located within the river buffer and no permanent buildings shall be placed
   within 50 feet of the top of the riverbank, with the exception of any flood control or river-related facilities.

Section 36-B.070. Concept Plan.
A. A Concept Plan is required for all development within the Jordan River Protection Overlay Zone before a
    preliminary subdivision or site plan may be submitted. The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning
    Commission, and City Council an opportunity to discuss the project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can
    use the Concept Plan meetings to receive direction on project layout as well as discuss the procedure for
    approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of streets, drainage, water,
    sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed preliminary subdivision
    plat. Sections 11.010 through 11.030 of the Development Code identify the requirements for a Concept Plan.

B. In addition to the concept requirements set forth in Chapter 11 of the Development Code, the required Concept
   Plan shall include:
        a. topographic contours at two feet or closer intervals may be required to determine river buffer;
        b. limits of all floodplains;




Hippocrates Subdivision Concept Plan
         c.   water supply source protection areas;
         d.   proposed trail and open space locations; and
         e.   significant trees and vibrant areas of native vegetation

Section 36-B.080. Site Features Map.
A. Concurrent with the submission of a Concept Plan application, the applicant shall prepare and submit a site
    features map. The applicant is only required to map site features located within the Jordan River Overlay Zone
    and areas located within 50 feet of the Overlay Zone to help finalize the river buffer location.

B. The purpose of the site features map is to identify and locate site features to facilitate creation of a site
   development design that mitigates impacts to the natural and cultural resources of the development area, and
   reduce risks associated with flooding, high ground water, and unstable soils. The site features map shall identify
   and locate:
       a. the Jordan River, streams, tributaries, ponds, wetlands, and other hydrologic features;
       b. riparian areas;
       c. known habitat of endangered, threatened, or State sensitive species;
       d. existing public and recreational access and uses; and
       e. cultural and historical resources.



  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of the Hippocrates Subdivision Concept Plan, a 12-lot single-
family residential subdivision located at approximately 3333 West 1500 North. A zone change application was
submitted concurrently with this concept plan to change the zoning from TH-5 to R-1-Flex to meet the General Plan
designation. This report will discuss the density, the Jordan River Protection Overlay requirements, and the DRC
comments.

Density and Site Layout
The subdivision is located on 4.96 acres of property. There will be twelve single-family lots within the subdivision,
seven of which fall within the Jordan River Protection Overlay Zone. The lots range in size. The smallest is 8,044
square feet, while the largest is 40,572 square feet. The R-1-Flex zone has a minimum lot size requirement of 8,000
square feet, and a maximum density of 3.5 units an acre. Both requirements are met as the smallest lot is over 8,000
square feet, and the density of this subdivision is 2.4 units an acre. There is also a public road that connects to the
future River Point subdivision to meet Lehi City’s connectivity requirements, and a master planned trail that will
connect the subdivision to River Point, the future neighborhood commercial site to the west, and 1500 North.

Jordan River Overlay Protection Zone
As mentioned previously, seven of the lots fall within the Jordan River Protection Overlay Zone. There are certain
requirements that must be met when development occurs within this zone. There can be no permanent structures built
within 50 feet of the top of bank, which the applicant has identified on the concept plan. Further, a site features map
was required to be submitted with this concept plan to identify any significant site features that warrant preservation.
The applicant provided this and stated they will protect the riparian habitat and encourage habitat growth for sensitive
species such as the Monarch butterfly, the Ute ladies’-tresses plant, and the Yellow-billed Cuckoo bird.

DRC Comments
There were five comments from the DRC, including:
1. Provide a letter of agreement on who will build the trail on the east side of the property.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Concept plans are administrative items, meaning if they meet the code they must be approved. This is a public hearing
item as this is a required concept plan per the Jordan River Overlay Protection Zone. Comments should focus on any




Hippocrates Subdivision Concept Plan
potential negative impacts to the surrounding area.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS
The Planning Commission may provide a positive or positive with modifications recommendation to the City Council
on the proposed concept plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
    2. The proposed concept does/does not conform to the requirements of the Jordan River Protection Overlay
       Zone.
    3. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    4. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Hippocrates Subdivision Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           January 31, 2024

                                                Hippocrates Cove Concept Plan
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Kraig Johnson requests review of the Hippocrates Cove Concept Plan, an 11-lot subdivision on 5 acres located at
approximately 3400 West 1500 North.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Kraig Johnson, Hua
Date of Plans Reviewed: 1/23/24
Time Start: 4:10 PM
Time End: 4:37 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments (see informational comments).
James – Parks:
1. Is it possible to move the trail to follow the edge of the Jordan river so it meets up with the pedestrian bridge at 1500
    N?
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments (see informational comments).
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments (see informational comments).
Brad – Engineering:
2. Curb / Gutter and trail should be extended along the entire frontage of lot 1.
3. New City Standard requires only 32' of pavement, not 34' of pavement. Transition to this new pavement section at the
    mid-block crossing - Preliminary Site Plan
4. Provide a standard roadway cross section (32' pavement, 2' c&g, 7' Planter, 5' s/w) - Preliminary Site Plan
Luke- Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
5. Provide letter of agreement on who will build the trail on the east side of the property.



DRC INFORMATIONAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).
2. Engineering - Show the location of the easement and storm drain utilities being installed as part of the fire station 84
3. Engineering - Confirm that the proposed curb and gutter location shown on these plans matches that shown on the fire
    station plans.
4. Engineering - Lehi City will reimburse for pavement and property widening for the master-planned roadway
5. Building - A soil report will be required if this moves past concept.
6. Public works - 12'' Culinary and 12'' Pi main will be extended to end of property line with Hydrant and Blow off.
7. Public works - 15'' storm drain will be installed with station 84 plans and end at the Jordan river.
8. Public works - 24'' sewer main in 1500 north.
9. Public works - SWPPP will be required prior to precon.
10. Public works - If this moves forward, a LTSWM plan and agreement will be required prior to precon
11. Planning - Final trail design will need to meet design criteria, which includes a minimum 40' centerline radius and 7'
    turn radius at trail intersections.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON FEBRUARY 22ND.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                     Site Assessment for Hippocrates Subdivision
                                        3333 W 1500 N
                                             Lehi UT


The project site is located at the western bank of the Jordan River and south of 1500 N. There are no
other streams, tributaries, ponds, wetlands or other hydrologic features on the subject site. The
riparian zone of subject property can be the habitat for Monarch butterfly, Ute ladies'-tresses, and
Yellow-billed Cuckoo. We will protect the riparian habit for these endangered, threatened or State
sensitive species. There is no existing public and recreational access and uses, no cultural and
historical resources on subject property.



Wetland

Source: https://geology.utah.gov/apps/wetlands/index.html

No wetlands are found on subject property.




           Project Site
Hydric Soils Classes

Not hydric for subject property.




                         Project Site




Threatened and endangered species

According to the website of Center for Biological Diversity – Map for U.S. Threatened and
Endangered Species by County, there are total 9 threatened and endangered species in the County
of Utah. For the subject property bordering the Jordan River, we analyze the impact of the
development on these 9 species.

Source

https://www.biologicaldiversity.org/programs/population_and_sustainability/T_and_E_map/



Common Name            Bonytail

Scientific Name        Gila elegans

Listing Status Endangered

County Utah

State    Utah

Subject Property: Jordan River is a seasonal flow river. There is no flowing water in the river bottom
during the winter months. This river management plan is not conducive to native fish.
Common Name             Canada Lynx

Scientific Name         Lynx canadensis

Listing Status Threatened

County Utah

State   Utah

Subject Property: This animal is adapted to boreal forest zone into the subalpine forest of the
western United States. Jordan River riparian zone is not this animal’s natural habitat.



Common Name             Clay phacelia

Scientific Name         Phacelia argillacea

Listing Status Endangered

County Utah

State   Utah

Subject Property: Jordan river at 4496 feet above sea level is too low of an elevation for this plant.




Common Name             June sucker

Scientific Name         Chasmistes liorus

Listing Status Threatened

County Utah

State   Utah

Subject Property: Jordan River is a seasonal flow river. There is no flowing water in the river bottom
during the winter months. This river management plan is not conducive to native fish.



Common Name             Mexican spotted owl

Scientific Name         Strix occidentalis lucida

Listing Status Threatened

County Utah
State   Utah

Subject Property: according to the map from U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service
(https://ecos.fws.gov/ecp/species/8196), this animal’s range is in the southeast portion of Utah.




Common Name            Monarch butterfly

Scientific Name        Danaus plexippus

Listing Status Candidate

County Utah

State   Utah

Subject Property: Monarch butterflies require milkweed plants. We will encourage growth of
milkweed plants in riparian zone.



Common Name            Razorback sucker

Scientific Name        Xyrauchen texanus

Listing Status Endangered

County Utah

State   Utah

Subject Property: Jordan River is a seasonal flow river. There is no flowing water in the river bottom
during the winter months. This river management plan is not conducive to native fish.




Common Name            Ute ladies'-tresses

Scientific Name        Spiranthes diluvialis

Listing Status Threatened

County Utah

State   Utah

Subject Property: We will encourage the growth of this plant in the riparian zone.



Common Name            Yellow-billed Cuckoo
Scientific Name        Coccyzus americanus

Listing Status Threatened

County Utah

State   Utah

Subject Property: The riparian zone may provide habitat for this bird. Its status in Utah is not
determined by the existing information. Proposed development will not change any potential
habitat.



FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) Panel 145 of 1450 for Utah County, Utah, Map Number
49049C0145F, Effective date: June 19, 2020

Subject property is in zone x, the areas determined to be outside of the 0.2% annual chance flood
plain.




          Project Site
