                                  WILLOW PARK ZONE CHANGE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        Lehi City
                                  Meeting Date         February 22, 2024
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                       change
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          Approximately 3250 West 300 North
                                      Acreage          13.22
                              Existing Zoning          A-5
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          Open Space
                 Proposed Zoning Designation           Public Facility
                            Existing Land Use          Willow Park Campground
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North Public Facility       Willow Park
                                                        South A-5                  Single-family residential, wetlands
                                                         East A-5                  Wetlands
                                                         West Planned Com-         Cold Springs Ranch
                                                                munity
                              Date of DRC Review       February 7, 2024
                                Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should
consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES




Willow Park Zone Change
  PROPERTY HISTORY

October 13, 1998           Property was annexed into Lehi City from Utah County.

January 25, 2022                    Lehi City Council adopted the General Plan.



  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from A-5 to Public Facility (PF).
During 2022, several parcels that had been owned by the city or by a public entity were re-zoned as Public Facility.
These two parcels are part of Willow Park, which is owned by Utah County but maintained by Lehi City, and they
were missed during that change.

Changing the zone of these parcels is consistent with the General Plan as they are designed as Open Space. The
Public Facility zone includes uses like public parks. Furthermore, changing these parcels to Public Facility is com-
patible with the surrounding uses as they are a part of Willow Park.

There were no comments from the DRC.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes that follow the General Plan must be approved unless there is significant evidence that doing so will
have a negative impact on the health, safety, or welfare of residents.

This is a public hearing item, meaning the public can speak on this item. Comments should focus on negative impacts
that could take place with the zone change.




Willow Park Zone Change
  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Willow Park Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           February 7, 2024

                                                    Willow Park Zone Change
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Lehi City- requests review of the Willow Park Zone Change, changing the zoning from A-5 to Public Facility.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie
Representatives of the Applicant Present: N/A
Date of Plans Reviewed: 1/31/2024
Time Start: 1:10 PM
Time End: 1:10 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Brad – Engineering: No comments.
Luke- Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning: No comments.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON FEBRUARY 22ND.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
 Community Development Department –
 Planning Division

 153 North 100 East
 Lehi, UT 84043
 Office 385.201.1030
 lehi-ut.gov




January 29, 2024

Narrative – Willow Park Zone Change

The Planning Division is proposing a zoning map amendment for two parcels located within
Willow Park. Specifically, we are proposing to change the zone from A-5 to Public Facility (PF).

During 2022, several parcels that had been owned by the city or by a public entity were re-zoned
as Public Facility. These two parcels are part of Willow Park, which is a city owned park, and
they were missed during that change.

Changing the zone of these parcels is consistent with the General Plan as they are designated as
Open Space. Changing these parcels to Public Facility is compatible with the surrounding uses as
it is part of Willow Park, and it will not cause any undue impact the general public health, safety,
and welfare.

Please contact the Planning Division if you have any questions.

Thank you,

Katie Bussell
Planner 1
