                                     CAMMANS ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant         Garrett Cammans
                                Meeting Date          February 22, 2024
                     Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                      change
                              Decision Type           Legislative
                                   Location           1403 N 2020 W
                                    Acreage           0.61 acres
                            Existing Zoning           A-1
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           VLDRA
               Proposed Zoning Designation            R-1-22
                          Existing Land Use           Single family residential
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North A-1                 Single family residential
                                                       South R-1-22             Staten Farms Plat A Subdivision
                                                        East RA-1               Scottfield Acres Subdivision
                                                        West A-1                Single family residential
                            Date of DRC Review        February 7, 2024
                              Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                  City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
Accommodate a range of housing and neighborhood types suitable for a variety of lifestyles, ages, affordability
levels, and design options.




Cammans Zone Change
     PROPERTY HISTORY

December 11, 1978             Property was included as part of the Lehi Meadows Addition.

October 12, 2023              The Homestead Estates 2-Lot Subdivision was approved by the Planning Commission.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from A-1 to R-1-22 on 0.61 acres of
property located at approximately 1403 North 2020 West. The General Plan designation of VLDRA is consistent with
the zone change request.

At DRC, Staff realized that a zone change was needed on the Lot 102 portion of the Homestead Estates Plat amendment
so that each lot met the zoning requirements. That lot was not over an acre, which made this zone change request neces-
sary. The City Council will need to approve this zone change, water will need to be dedicated, and the zone change be
recorded with Utah County before the plat amendment can also record.

The DRC reviewed the proposed zone change and had two redline comments.

1.    As a condition of recording the Zone Change Ordinance and as a condition of recording the plat amendment, the
      owner needs to complete the required water dedication for the R-1-22 Zone. The amount of culinary water is 0.79
      acre feet per acre and irrigation water is 2.90 acre feet per acre.
2.    We will need a legal description for this since the plat amendment will record after the zone change so right now it
      is still part of the larger lot- lot 101

Please consider the DRC comments in the motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes that follow the General Plan must be approved unless there is significant evidence that doing so will have
a negative impact on the health, safety or welfare of residents.

This is a public hearing item, meaning the public can speak on this item. However, the public should realize that the
zone change cannot be denied simply because they do not like the proposed development. Comments should focus on
negative impacts that would take place with the zone change.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
      2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
      3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
           properties;
      4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
           the General Plan;
      5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses




Cammans Zone Change
        for nearby and adjoining properties;
   6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Cammans Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          February 7, 2024

                                             Cammans Zone Change
                                            DRC Redline Comments
Garrett Cammans- requests review of the Cammans zone change, changing the zoning on 0.61 acres of property at 1403 N
2020 W from A-1 to R-1-22.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob
Representatives of the Applicant Present: None
Date of Plans Reviewed: 1/31/24
Time Start: 1:02 pm
Time End: 1:05 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey– Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. As a condition of recording the Zone Change Ordinance and as a condition of recording the plat amendment, the owner
    needs to complete the required water dedication for the R-1-22 Zone. The amount of culinary water is 0.79 acre feet
    per acre and irrigation water is 2.90 acre feet per acre.
2. We will need a legal description for this since the plat amendment will record after the zone change so right now it is
    still part of the larger lot- lot 101


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON FEBRUARY 22, 2024
(NEED ENVELOPES BEFORE SCHEDULING)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
