                       MEADOW POINTE SUBDIVISION PLAT B
                                        PLAT AMENDMENT
                               PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant      Kimley-Horn
                         Meeting Date       March 14, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose       Approval of a proposed plat amendment
                              Location      2202 North Ashton Blvd
     Existing General Plan Designation      C (Commercial)
                       Existing Zoning      CR (Regional Commercial)
                    Existing Land Use       Auto Sales
                 Number of Lots/Units       7 lots
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use           North C                     I-15
                                               South LI                    2100 N
                                                East C                     I-15
                                                West PC                    Pointe Meadow Subdivision
                    Date of DRC Review      February 14, 2024
                      Assigned Planner      Jacob Curtis

                                          REQUIRED ACTION
                  Planning Commission       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.330. Vacating, Altering, or Amending a Recorded Subdivision Plat. (Amended 01/23/24)

The Planning Commission, following review by the Reviewing Departments, shall be the Land Use Authority for
approving any proposed vacation, alteration, or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision
plat, or any road or lot contained in a subdivision plat. The Planning Commission shall follow all requirements
and procedures identified in Utah State Code Section 10-9a-608.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

February 28, 1996         Property was included as part of the H. Keith Bushman Annexation.

April 1, 2019             The Meadow Pointe Final Subdivision was approved by the City Council.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval of a plat amendment to Meadow Pointe Subdivision Plat B. This plat amend-
ment is being proposed to change the subdivision from four lots to seven lots. The primary purpose of this plat
amendment is to accommodate the development of a new project for Ken Garff Porsche on Lot 5.

The plat amendment shows the addition of a new road connection from the frontage road to Ashton Blvd. The
commercial zone does not have a minimum lot size requirement, but each lot in the subdivision meets the 60 foot
frontage requirement.

The DRC had six redline comments, including the following:
1.    Add language that it is amending lots 1 & 2 of Meadow Pointe Plat B Subdivision. Make updates as shown on the
      plat.
2.    Cross-Access Easement required between lots 6 & 7.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed plat amendment. Any motion should include
findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The proposed subdivision meets/does not meet the requirements of the Development Code.
      2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public meeting.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 14, 2024

                                     Plat Amendment Meadow Point Subdivision Plat B
                                                DRC Redline Comments

Kimley-Horn – requests review of a Plat Amendment for the Meadow Point Subdivision Plat B, creating seven lots to
replace the four existing lots.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Chris Bick
Date of Plans Reviewed: 2/6/2024
Time Start: 3:20 pm
Time End: 3:22 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering:
1. Replace the Plat in this set of plans with the final plat shown in the 353 page set of plans
         • Change the Power Easement label to read "10' PU&RCE typ." - Final Plat
         • Show a dimension on the plat indicating the 52' ROW Public Street - Final Plat
         • Label the Public Street on the Plat - Final Plat
         • Add detention comment to final plat
2. For readability, add additional Detail sheets so that no more than two standard details are shown per page (typ) all
    sheets. - All Detail Sheets
3. UDOT Approval required for access onto the Frontage Road prior to moving beyond the DRC process
4. Cross-Access Easement required between lots 6 & 7
Kim – Planning:
5. Add language that it is amending lots 1 & 2 of Meadow Pointe Plat B Subdivision. Make updates as shown on the plat.
Glade – Power:
6. A 10’minimum PU&RCE is required on both sides of all roads, public and private. Where there is no landscape strip
    for water meters, hydrants or blow-offs, a 15’ easement is required. Required easements are not shown on the Plat.


PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (NONE)
PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 14, 2024

5.   Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
     and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6.   All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7.   All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
     being granted.
8.   The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
     by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9.   Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
     be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
     provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
     loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
     construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION (FINAL APPROVAL) ON MARCH 14, 2024.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
                                 Meadow Pointe Subdivision Narrative

Ken Garff proposes to subdivide the overall parcel of land that is divided by Ashton Boulevard to
accommodate the development of a new project. The project is known as “Ken Garff Porsche”. The
existing “Ken Garff Jaguar Land Rover” property will also be included in the plat as well as the remainder
lot that currently has no immediate plan for development. The Ken Garff Jaguar Land Rover will be on
Lot 5 and the Ken Garff Porsche will be on Lot 6 and the remainder lot will be on Lot 7.
