                                    LAKEVIEW LAND AND ROCK
                                  GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        Cole Peck
                                  Meeting Date         March 14, 2024
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation for an amendment to the General
                                                       Plan
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          600 S 600 E
                                      Acreage          12.81
                              Existing Zoning          Not Annexed
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          LDR (Low Density Residential)
               Proposed Land Use Designation           Heavy Commercia(C-H)/Commercial(C)
                            Existing Land Use          Vehicle Storage
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North R-1-10          Single Family Residential
                                                        South Not Annexed Residential and Agriculture
                                                         East A-1            Residential and Light Industrial
                                                         West R-1-Flex       Single Family Residential
                             Date of DRC Review        February 21, 2024
                               Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval
The Planning Commission should consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a General Plan
amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES



Lakeview Land and Rock General Plan Amendment
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (LDR) The Low Density Residential (LDR) classification provides for predomi-
nantly single family residential areas and single family dwelling units with an overall neighborhood density not to
exceed 4 units per acre.

COMMERCIAL (C) The Commercial (C) land use classification is to provide controlled and compatible locations
for retail, office, business, and other commercial activities. The classification is intended to enhance employment
opportunities, encourage the efficient use of land, enhance property values and the City tax base, and ensure high
quality design and function of commercial areas. The Commercial classification may typically include retail sales
and services, offices and institutional uses.

HEAVY COMMERCIAL (C-H) The Heavy Commercial (C-H) classification is intended to provide appropriate
locations for warehousing, auto and truck services, and light manufacturing that do not impact existing and planned
residential areas. Typical uses include office/warehouse, light manufacturing, auto and truck service and repair, dis-
tribution centers, and some retail/ office.

PLACEMAKING: Strategy 2- Ensure that different uses are integrated in a way to transition with existing
residential neighborhoods.

Impacts on existing residential neighborhoods should be minimized to the greatest extent practicable. One way to
help reduce these impacts is by requiring a transition from less intense uses to slightly more intense uses. For exam-
ple, existing neighborhoods can be transitioned to a slightly more intense use, such as townhomes or neighborhood-
scale commercial, which can transition to more intense uses including mixed use or transit-oriented developments.
Another approach to minimizing impacts is to create a physical buffer between uses, through such means as land-
scaped buffers or screening.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting to amend the General Plan land use designation of this property from Low Density Res-
idential (LDR) to Heavy Commercial (C-H) and Commercial (C) on 12.18 acres located at 600 S 600 E.

The property is not currently annexed into the City but the applicant submitted for a General Plan Amendment with
the intent of requesting a development agreement with the City. Potential development of the property would be
heavy commercial with office warehouse with storage areas along the east side on 600 S. That use would be consistent
with properties to the east. The west side, which would be adjacent to existing single family residential is proposed
to be commercial with office spaces. The applicant expects a development agreement would be needed to clarify
buffering and architectural requirements to help define the transition to the residential neighborhood.

The Planning Commission should consider the allowed uses in the Heavy Commercial and Commercial classification
and if the proposed uses are appropriate on the property.

The DRC had no redline comments on the General Plan amendment.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a legislative item the Planning Commission has a high level of discretion in whether they approve General Plan
Amendments or not. The Commission should consider the impacts on the neighborhood and area if this develops as
Commercial, as well as the impacts to existing and future residents if it develops as residential.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendment to the General



Lakeview Land and Rock General Plan Amendment
Plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed amendment to the Lehi City General Plan is/is not detrimental to the public health, safety,
         and welfare of Lehi City.
    2.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provisions
         of the General Plan and its various elements.
    3.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not consistent with the land uses and zoning of nearby and
         adjoining properties.
    4.   The proposed General Plan amendment will/will not have a substantial adverse effect on surrounding prop-
         erty.
    5.   The affected site is/is not physically suitable in terms of design, location, shape, size, operating characteris-
         tics, and the provision of public services to accommodate any potential future uses, including all landscap-
         ing, loading areas, open spaces, parking areas, setbacks, buffering/screening, walls, fences, yards, and other
         required features.
    6.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Lakeview Land and Rock General Plan Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 21, 2024

                                     Lakeview Land and Rock General Plan Amendment
                                                 DRC Redline Comments

Cole Peck- requests review of the Lakeview Land and Rock General Plan amendment located at approximately 600 East
600 South, changing the land use designation from LDR to Heavy Commercial and Commercial.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, Trent Dyer, Jake Plymale, Luke Seegmiller, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Cole Peck, Tony Trane
Date of Plans Reviewed: 2/13/2024
Time Start: 1:04 pm
Time End: 1:12 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Jake– Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
Trent – Parks: No comments
Arnie – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Luke – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments

General Comments
1. If built out power there will be a significant line extension.
2. RMP take over


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 14, 2024.
(NEED ENVELOPES BEFORE SCHEDULING)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
February 1, 2024

Lehi City
Attn: City Council and Staff

Subject: LAKEVIEW LAND AND ROCK DEVELOPMENT LLC GENERAL PLAN
AMENDMENT

The properties owned by, Lakeview Land and Rock Development LLC, located at 600 South 600
East (serial number 13:007:0040) is requesting a general plan amendment for the Lehi City
General Plan Map. This general plan amendment submittal is requesting approximately 12.81
acres change the designation to Commercial and Heavy Commercial with the intent of a
development agreement between the property owner and Lehi City. We feel this is an appropriate
request based on the criteria below:

(a) In general, the topography, vegetation, and other natural features present on the property
proposed for the amendment is Flat Land.

(b) The existing land uses to the east of the property is a light industrial use and the property to
the west is residential. The initial development is anticipated to be a couple acres for the property
owner to build an office warehouse building for their construction companies.

(c) The potential development of the property would be to develop office warehouse with some
potential storage areas along the east side of the project. The requested use is similar to the
property east and is anticipated to include restriction and/or exceptions in the development
agreement if recommended by the Council.
        One future proposed use along the westerly side that is being considered is office space
that looks more like a home, (similar to the older homes along Main Street). This will help to
keep a buffer area for the single family homes and give a more blended feel to the area. This area
is being proposed as commercial and can allow for additional requirements based on the
development agreement. Such items would be anticipated to define uses, landscaping protection
along the residential and fencing agreements. The anticipation is to construct an 8’ high solid
fence along the westerly edge.

(d) This proposal would fit in with the Lehi City’s land use(s), goals and policies outlined in the
Lehi City General Plan base on the adjacent similar uses, a railroad along the property and a
significant need within the City for this type of use along with the measures being put in place to
create a transition buffer with the homes to the west.

(e) The potential (when the property is developed) demands for Lehi City provided facilities and
services to the area including culinary water, irrigation water, wastewater,transportation facilities,
drainage, fire protection, solid waste, parks and recreation, and police protection would be
lessened with the current proposal based on the fact that the proposed impact to the systems
would be at different times from the typical residential demands.

We feel that the proposed amendment request is an appropriate request and would be in line with
the City’s future planning. We ask that you direct City Staff to coordinate with us for the creation
of a development agreement that would allow approval for the requested General Plan
Amendment for the Lakeview Land and Rock property along 600 East.

Thank you for your consideration of this matter.
