                MEADOW POINTE KEN GARFF PORSCHE SITE PLAN
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Kimley-Horn
                          Meeting Date        March 14, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose         Approval of a proposed site plan
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        2202 North Ashton Blvd
                           Project Area       2.83 acres
                       Existing Zoning        CR
     General Plan Land Use Designation        C
                     Existing Land Use        Undeveloped
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North C                      I-15
                                                 South LI                     2100 N
                                                  East C                      I-15
                                                  West PC                     Pointe Meadow Subdivision
                     Date of DRC Review       February 28, 2024
                       Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission       Final approval
                            City Council      No action required


     APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.250. Site Plan Approval Process. (Am 5/22/01; 08/13/02; 11/09/04)
The review and approval process for a Site Plan shall be as follows:
Permitted Uses (2) Site Plans associated with a permitted use and with a total valuation, including building and all
associated improvements, greater than $500,000 dollars shall require approval by the Planning Commission,
following a review by the DRC. The Planning Commission may require that the approval of a Site Plan be
forwarded to the City Council if they determine a project is likely to have a significant impact on traffic,
environmental quality, lighting, compatibility of uses, or the health, safety, or general welfare of the surrounding
properties, property values, or residents. The Planning Commission and or City Council may hold a public hearing
on any project likely to have a significant impact on the surrounding property, values or residents.

Section 37.060. Parking Standards

8. The following minimum landscaped setback and separation shall be required for all surface parking lots, unless
otherwise approved by the Planning Commission:

a.    20 feet from public road rights-of-way; and

b. ten feet from perimeter property lines.


     PROPERTY HISTORY

February 28, 1996           Property was included as part of the H. Keith Bushman Annexation.

April 1, 2019               The Meadow Pointe Final Subdivision was approved by the City Council.




Meadow Pointe- Ken Garff Porsche Site Plan
     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Meadow Pointe Ken Garff Porsche Site Plan located at approximately 2202
North Ashton Blvd in a Regional Commercial zone. The proposed auto sales and rental use is a permitted use
within that zone. The Planning Commission is reviewing this site plan because of the request for an exception to
the Code.

Site Layout
The site shows a new two-story dealership building surrounded by parking to the southeast of the existing Jaguar
Land Rover Dealership. There is a new public road between the two dealerships. The plan shows 60 parking stalls
to meet the parking requirements and 74 parking stalls for inventory.

An exception is required for the location of the surface parking lot. The parking lot setback from public road right-
of-way is typically 20-feet unless approved by the Planning Commission.

DRC Comments
The DRC provided 11 comments, including the following:

1.    Parking lot setbacks from the public ROW don't meet the typical 20-foot requirement, an exception from the
      Planning Commission would be required for the site plan as shown.

Please consider these comments in your notion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Site Plans are an administrative action, which means if they meet Code the Planning Commission must approve it.

This is not a public hearing item.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed site plan. Any motion should include
findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or
           improvements in the vicinity and will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, general welfare or
           convenience.
      2.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and
           policies of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
      3.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate
           size and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner
           that it will not be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
      4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public meeting.




Meadow Pointe- Ken Garff Porsche Site Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                       February 28, 2024

                                                   Ken Garff Porsche Site Plan
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Kimley-Horn – requests review of the Ken Garff Porsche Meadow Point Site Plan, a new automobile dealership located at
2202 North Ashton Blvd.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Chris Bick
Date of Plans Reviewed: 2/20/2024
Time Start: 2:10 pm
Time End: 2: 17 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. A 10’ minimum PUE is required on both sides of all roads, public and private. Where there is no landscape strip for
    water meters, hydrants or blow-offs, a 15’ easement is required. Required easements are not shown on the Plat or
    Plans.
2. A Power Circuit and loads Study is required for this development. Contact: Michael Anderson, Active Power
    Engineering 435.881.9953
3. Power line & cabinet relocations required.
4. No permanent structures allowed in PUE. Relocate all permanent structures in PUE space.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
5. remove keynote 12 off of water services. they do not require valves on services. fire line will require Valve flanged to
    tee.
6. 1'' CTS service line for pi service.
7. Show valve symbol on fire line.
8. 6'' blue C900 fire line.
9. remove note on key note 11
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering:
10. Add additional detail sheets such that no more than two standard detail sheets are contained on any one construction
    sheet.
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
11. Parking lot setbacks from the public ROW don't meet the typical 20-foot requirement, an exception from the Planning
    Commission would be required for the site plan as shown.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)
PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
2. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
   must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
3. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
4. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
   Works (Contact Shelbey Brewer at sbrewer@lehi-ut.gov).
5. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
   should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                       February 28, 2024

6.  Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
    Brewer at sbrewer@lehi-ut.gov) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed agreement must be recorded
    by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
7. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
8. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
9. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
10. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.

DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION WITH THE PLAT AMENDMENT ON THE
14TH OF MARCH 2024.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
