                                         LEHI BLOCK RETAIL 1
                          DRIVE-THROUGH CONDITIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Gardner Company
                         Meeting Date         March 14, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use and site plan
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        2255 North 1200 West
                          Project Area        0.77 acres
                       Existing Zoning        Commercial
              General Plan Designation        Commercial
                    Existing Land Use         Undeveloped
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North Commercial                Embold Apartments
                                                 South Commercial                Maverik
                                                  East Utah County               Old Refractories Site
                                                  West Commercial                Parking for Office
                     Date of DRC Review       February 28, 2024
                       Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval
                           City Council       No action required


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General

                                                                                                                       1
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.

The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest


  PROPERTY HISTORY

February 10, 1998          Annexed into Lehi City as part of the Lehi Block Plant Annexation

March 12, 2019             City Council approved a concept plan for Lehi Block including office, housing, and
                           retail uses.

November 19, 2019          City Council denied the Lehi Block General Plan Land Use request for TOD designa-
                           tion. And instead requested a development agreement be put in place.

December 10, 2019          City Council approved the final subdivision for the Lehi Block Site. Separating it into
                           parcels and designating private roadways.

December 12, 2019          Planning Commission approved the Lehi Block Office Phase 1 Site Plan.

April 14, 2020             City Council approved the Lehi Block General Plan Land Use Designation from In-
                           dustrial to Commercial and the Lehi Block Development Agreement

 May 12, 2020              City Council approved the Lehi Block Zone Change from Industrial to Commercial


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Lehi Block Retail 1 Site Plan and Conditional Use Drive-Through located at
2255 North 1200 West in the Commercial Zone.

The applicant meets most of the site plan requirements. They do require conditional use approval for the drive-through
they show around the building. This will also require an exception for the drive aisle for the drive-through between
the building and the street. These are tied together.

DRC reviewed the proposed site plan and conditional use and had 10 redline comments including:
1. Can the northern two accesses be combined? There is a safety benefit of having fewer accesses.
2. Code requires a pedestrian connection to the building. Provide a crosswalk (preferably raised) across the drive-
   through aisle for access to the building from the public sidewalk. Also recommend including one from the Em-
   bold apartments to provide quick, easy access.
3. An exception will be required to allow a drive-thru between the building and the street. Planning Staff would
   not support an exception due to the TOD designation on the adjacent area, and note that the Maverik was re-
   quired to orient their building to the street without an exception.
4. The maximum setback for buildings shall be 25 feet as measured from the property line. 3.Sites on corner lots
   may include a set-back in the front of the building to accommodate a pedestrian plaza. The maximum setback
   may be increased to accommodate existing mainline utilities, grade changes over 20 percent, existing buildings,
   or other hardship that is not self-imposed to the property.

Please consider including all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Site plans have to be approved if they meet the Code. Conditional uses are likewise allowed uses but can have reason-
able conditions put on them. The Commission should consider if the site meets the Code requirements and if there are


                                                                                                                       2
any conditions that should be put on the drive-through to mitigate against potential negative impacts.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or approve with conditions the proposed conditional use and
site plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed site plan and conditional use meet/ do not meet the requirements of the Development Code
2.    The proposed site plan and conditional use allow/ do not allow for pedestrian access to the building.
3.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
4.    That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
      and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
      be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
5.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                        3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 28, 2024

                                                       Lehi Block Retail 1
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Gardner- requests review of Lehi Block Retail 1 site plan with conditional use for a drive through on approximately 0.78
acres located at 2255 North 1200 West in the Commercial zone.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Brittney
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Howard Cooke and Quintin Elder
Date of Plans Reviewed: 2/20/2024
Time Start: 2:27pm
Time End: 3:03 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Include details for metering and transformer pad.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
Prior to Precon: Grease trap and sample MH will require TSSD approval
2. Provide profile sheets for storm drain.
James – Parks:
3. Please sum totals for each category of trees and plant material.
4. The development code requirement is 50% plant coverage at maturity. Add plant material to this strip, 10-15 plants;
     maybe barberry, oat grass, veronica, etc.
Suggestion: I love the varied and copious amounts of landscape color proposed for this site. I am wondering if something
red blooming like knockout roses or red/orange barberry might help to strengthen the design intent?
Suggestion, I am wondering if adding additional Tiger Eyes Sumac might help to enhance the contemporary feel of this
building and site. I am wondering if it may help to strengthen the design intent by switching something else out and adding
additional Tiger Eyes Sumac.
Gary – Building/Inspections:
5. On sheet C-200, add dimensions to the trash enclosure and concrete apron.
Shelbey – Public Works:
Lot size is less than one acre, so no SWPPP will be required
Lot size is less than one acre, so 80th percentile retention is not required
A LTSWMP will be required prior to precon
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Luke-Traffic:
6. Can the northern two accesses be combined? There is a safety benefit of having fewer accesses.
Kim – Planning:
7. Code requires a pedestrian connection to the building. Provide a crosswalk (preferably raised) across the drive-through
     aisle for access to the building from the public sidewalk. Also recommend including one from the Embold apartments
     to provide quick, easy access.
8. An exception will be required to allow a drive-thru between the building and the street. Planning Staff would not
     support an exception due to the TOD designation on the adjacent area, and note that the Maverik was required to orient
     their building to the street without an exception.
9. The maximum setback for buildings shall be 25 feet as measured from the property line. 3.Sites on corner lots may
     include a set-back in the front of the building to accommodate a pedestrian plaza. The maximum setback may be
     increased to accommodate existing mainline utilities, grade changes over 20 percent, existing buildings, or other
     hardship that is not self-imposed to the property.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 28, 2024




10. For the Urban Tech Design District, buildings shall have hierarchal massing at building entrances. Building entrances
    shall include at least one the following features:

    a.roof tower feature;

    b.pitched roof feature;

    c.parapet extensions; and

    d.articulations in the façade.

    Also, the hierarchal architectural features at building entrances shall also include at least two of the following features:

    a.differing exterior material types;

    b.awnings or canopies;

    c.decorative lighting; and

    d.increased amount of glass such as side or transom windows.

    Buildings with multiple entrances shall have at least two separate hierarchal features to distinguish entrance locations.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)
PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
2. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
   must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
3. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
   process.
4. Provide a title report to be reviewed by Staff.
5. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
6. Provide signed easement verification sheet.
7. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
   Brewer at sbrewer@lehi-ut.gov) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed agreement must be recorded
   by developer and a copy submitted to the City.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 28, 2024

8.  Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
9. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
10. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
11. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 14th




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                3 of 3
                    Lehi Block Retail 1 Narrative

On behalf of Lehi Block Retail 1 LC, Gardner is proposing a single-tenant retail building that
includes a drive-through known as Lehi Block Retail 1. The project is approximately .774 acres
and is located at 2255 N 1200 WEST, LEHI, UT.

We believe that our proposed retail building is the optimal use for this parcel and will help
provide nearby residential or businesses with much-needed retail services. Our current
proposed site plan is in line with the current zoning and general plan designations associated
with the property. However, we are asking for a modification regarding the landscape buffer
requirement associated with an adjacent residential land use.

We do not anticipate this proposed concept having any negative impacts on the surrounding
communities, but we are still mindful of the existing residential developments that are nearby.
We intend to design, construct, lease, and manage this development in ways that mitigate any
negative impacts on the neighboring residential communities. This will be done through ample
landscaping and buffering, architecture, and strategic tenant selection.

Our goal is for this development to enhance the surrounding area by providing additional
desired services, especially for the residents living nearby.
      Narrative on Lehi Block Retail Conditional Use

On behalf of Lehi Block Retail 1 LC, Gardner is applying for a conditional use permit for our Lehi
Block Retail 1 project. The project consists of one 2,308 SF single-tenant retail building
containing a double drive-through, which is considered a conditional use in this zone.

Gardner believes that the proposed use, at the proposed location, will not be detrimental or
injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity and will not be detrimental to public health,
safety, general welfare, or convenience. We are mindful of our proximity to several residential
developments and are dedicated to providing adequate landscaping and appealing architecture
to ensure this development is cohesive with the surrounding developments. We also took into
consideration the neighboring residential communities when considering potential tenants for
this site to ensure their business or services are conducive to the surrounding area and not
detrimental. Gardner's intention for the Lehi Block Retail 1 project is to enhance the overall
community by further activating the area with needed retail uses and services.

Gardner can confirm the proposed use will be located and conducted in a manner in compliance
with the goals and policies of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this code.

Gardner can also confirm that the property on which the use, building, or other structure is
proposed to be established is of adequate size.
