             SKYE PRELIMINARY PLAT A SUBDIVISION REVISOINS
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant        DR Horton
                           Meeting Date         March 14, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose        Recommendation of proposed revisions to an approved preliminary
                                                subdivision
                           Decision Type        Administrative
                                Location        Approximately 3950 North and Center Street
       Existing General Plan Designation        Mixed-Use (MU), Medium Density Residential (MDR), and High
                                                Density Residential (HDR)
                        Existing Zoning         Planned Community (PC)
                     Existing Land Use          Undeveloped
                   Number of Lots/Units         541
          Adjacent Zoning and Land Use           North PC                      Undeveloped Skye Area Plan
                                                          (LDR/MDR/HDR)
                                                 South SR-92                   Timpanogos Highway
                                                   East PC (PF)                Viewpoint Middle and Belmont
                                                  West PC (open space)         Buffer for TI
                      Date of DRC Review        November 1, 2023
                        Assigned Planner        Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Review and Recommendation
                             City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code, in-
cluding review by the Development Review Committee, review and recommendation following a public hearing by
the Planning Commission and review and approval by the City Council.

Section 11.140. Revisions.
A.       If any revision is included on the final plat that was not present on the Preliminary Plat or came as a requirement
of approval by the City Council, it is the applicant’s responsibility to inform the Reviewing Departments, Planning Com-
mission and City Council of the change. Failure to inform the Planning Commission or City Council of the revisions may
result in revocation of any or all approvals.

B.       Revisions to approved construction drawings for subdivisions or site plans shall be coordinated with the
Public Works Director. The Public Works Director may require Reviewing Departments review of the proposed
revisions. The applicant shall provide one electronic copy in PDF format of the revisions, unless otherwise approved
by the Public Works Director. The copies shall be made on colored paper where available; otherwise a red revision
stamp shall be required on the drawings in the right hand margin to distinguish revised pages from the original
approved pages, as directed by the Public Works Director. All revisions shall be indicated with clouding. The plans
shall include a revision block filled out including the date of the revisions.

Table 37.080. Table of Off-Street Parking Requirements




Skye Preliminary Plat A Subdivision
 Townhouses                                                2 stalls per dwelling unit, not in tandem configuration, one of
 (see Sec. 12.130 B)                                       which must be within an enclosed garage or underground
                                                           parking structure.
                                                           1 additional parking space per 3 dwelling units if unit is adja-
                                                           cent to on street parking.
                                                           1 additional parking space per 2.5 dwelling units if unit is not
                                                           adjacent to on street parking.
                                                           All additional off-street parking must be within 250 feet of
                                                           the assigned units.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 21, 1995               Part of the property came into Lehi City as part of the Micron Annexation

May 27, 1999                Part of the property came into Lehi City as part of the Low Hills Annexation

December 11, 2012           City Council approved the Micron Area Plan

August 23, 2022             City Council approved the Skye Area Plan amending the Micron Area Plan

December 13, 2022           City Council approved the Skye Preliminary Plat A Subdivision

September 19, 2023          City Council approved the Skye Area Plan Second Amendment


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of proposed revisions to the approved Skye Preliminary Plat A.
The revisions add additional land area and units that were added in the Skye Area Plan Second Amendment. The
layout of the rest of the units stayed substantially the same.

Additional units
The revised plan brings in additional land area that was brought in with the Skye Area Plan Second Amendment. The
new preliminary plan includes an additional 31 acres and 159 units. These additions do not add units to the Area Plan
just the approved units and area for the Skye Preliminary Plat A.

The biggest change to the layout includes moving the common area space further north.

Common Areas
The common area that the applicant has indicated will include the clubhouse and other HOA amenities was moved
further north. It shows a trail running along the east side and connecting the open space to the trail network throughout
the development. The applicant has indicated they preferred this location for their main amenities from the beginning.
They just had to show a place for the amenities to meet the amenity requirement with the previous preliminary plat.

On-Street Parking
The applicant seeks an exception to allow for two on-street parking spots to count towards the parking proximity
requirement. They highlighted these two spots on their plans and left a comment stating their request.




Skye Preliminary Plat A Subdivision
The applicant made the 250 feet proximity requirement for off-street parking to the townhome units work everywhere
but in this one area. The location of power infrastructure left no room for off-street parking in this one area.

The Planning Commission and ultimately the City Council can grant a deviation from the City requirements. Some
of the things they may want to consider is the precedence of allowing a deviation from the parking proximity require-
ment. On the other hand, if they hold to the requirement the applicant may move the units to an area with a higher
slope which creates safety and environmental concerns.

The DRC only had one comment on the revised preliminary subdivision. The comment related to the parking dis-
cussed above.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

The Planning Commission must provide a positive recommendation to the City Council if this subdivision meets the
Area Plan and Development Code requirements. The proposed preliminary plans do besides the requested exception
to the parking requirement. The Planning Commission may recommend that the City Council approve or deny that
exception.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may recommend approval or approval with modifications of the proposed revisions to the
approved preliminary subdivision. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed revised preliminary subdivision meets/does not meet the requirements of the Skye Area Plan.
    2.   The proposed revised preliminary subdivision will provide the clubhouse and other amenities in an early
         phase of development.
    3.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
         gards to subdivision approvals.
    4.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Skye Preliminary Plat A Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         November 1, 2023

                                               Skye Preliminary Plat A Revisions
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

DR Horton- requests review of the Skye Preliminary Plat A Revisions.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Ross
    Dinsdale, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Jeff Stephenson and Ben Tuckett
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/2/23
Time Start: 1:57pm
Time End: 2:10pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Ross – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. One area of townhomes does not meet the parking proximity requirement, an amendment may allow for an exception
    in the future. They will need to meet parking requirements with the final subdivision.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION AFTER THE AREA PLAN IS RECORDED




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                                                                             September 11, 2023

                      Skye Area Plan Preliminary Plat A revisions
      DR Horton seeks to amend the preliminary plat A to include the Skye Clubhouse parcel
and surrounding lots and infrastructure. DR Horton would like to build the clubhouse in early
phase of the development and anticipates the pool, and other amenities on the clubhouse
parcel will be a great benefit to the community.
       The clubhouse parcel was not included in the preliminary plat previously as the
clubhouse parcel needed to be added to the area plan via area plan amendment. The area
plan amendment is before city council on September 19th and is anticipated to be approved at
that time. As such DR Horton is seeking to amend the preliminary plat at this time.
