                           SKYLINE PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant       Aaron Larson
                          Meeting Date        March 14, 2024
               Requested Action/Purpose       Public hearing, review, and approval for a proposed preliminary subdi-
                                              vision
                           Decision Type      Administrative
                                Location      Approximately 1700 North Boston Street
       Existing General Plan Designation      Light Industrial
                         Existing Zoning      Light Industrial
                      Existing Land Use       Vacant
                   Number of Lots/Units       5 lots
          Adjacent Zoning and Land Use           North Light Industrial       Vacant
                                                 South Light Industrial       Landscaping company
                                                  East Commercial             Caliber Collision
                                                  West Residential            Saratoga Springs
                      Date of DRC Review      February 14th, 2024
                        Assigned Planner      Katie Bussell

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission       Final Approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code, in-
cluding review by the Reviewing Departments, and review and approval by the Planning Commission following a
public hearing.

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has
been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.



  PROPERTY HISTORY

November 3, 1992           Property recorded as part of the Country Mile Plat A Subdivision.

January 2, 2020            Property annexed into Lehi City from Saratoga Springs.

January 25, 2022           Lehi City General Plan adopted by Lehi City Council.

January 9, 2024            Zone change from TH-5 to Light Industrial was approved by the Lehi City Council.




Skyline Preliminary Subdivision
  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Skyline Preliminary Subdivision, a 5-lot commercial subdivision totaling 3.26
acres located at approximately 1700 North Boston Street. The final subdivision was also submitted as part of this
application, but due to recent changes in the state code, the final subdivision is solely reviewed at the DRC level.
Many of the comments from the DRC pertain to the final plat, and all comments will be addressed prior to final
subdivision approval. This report will cover the zoning requirements for this subdivision, and vacating the current
subdivision of Country Mile Plat A.

Zoning
The property is located within the Light Industrial zone. The lots range in size from 22,869 square feet to 40,584
square feet. All lots have a frontage of at least 76 feet. The minimum lot size for the Light Industrial zone is 22,000
square feet with a minimum frontage of 60 feet. The preliminary plat therefore meets the size and minimum frontage
requirements for the Light Industrial zone. The applicant is also constructing the final third of Boston Street.

Plat Vacation
Further, this plat will also be vacating part of the existing Country Mile Plat A Subdivision. The existing subdivision
was recorded in 1992 before the properties east of the canal were annexed into Lehi City, while the properties west
of the canal remained in Saratoga Springs. Most of the properties to the east of the canal have different ownership
than those west of it, including the parcels that are being subdivided by the proposed plat. Therefore, the Country
Mile Plat A subdivision will have to be vacated in part to allow for the proposed subdivision to record.

DRC Comments
The DRC had eight comments, many of which were for the final plat. The comments for the preliminary plat include:
1. Change all colored text and lines to black.
2. Change the label for the PUE to PU and RCE.
3. Remove phone numbers from preliminary plat.

Please consider all DRC comments in the motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Subdivision review is an administrative action. If the preliminary subdivision meets the Code, the Planning Com-
mission must approve it. The Planning Commission can include in their motion any changes that need to be made to
meet Code requirements.

As a public hearing item, residents may make comments on potential concerns. Concerns focused around Code re-
quirements or reasonable conditions that could mitigate against potential negative impacts are the most helpful.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed preliminary subdivision. Any motion should
include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
         gards to subdivision approvals.
    2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Skyline Preliminary Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 28, 2024

                                                Skyline Preliminary Subdivision
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Aaron Larson- requests review of the Skyline Preliminary Subdivision, a 5-lot commercial subdivision located at
approximately 1700 North Boston Street on 3.26 acres.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Jake Plymale
Assigned Planner: Katie
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Bob Kunz, Aaron Larson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 2/20/2024
Time Start: 3:38 PM
Time End:

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Jake/Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
1. Change key note 2 to road base.
2. change key 4note to sub base
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Brad – Engineering:
1. Can the existing 20' PUE be extinguished simply by replatting? It seems possible that utilities may exist within the
existing easements for Lot 3 and Lot 4 of the Country Mile Subdivision
2. Show existing storm drainage piping crossing Boston Street, and show in profile - Sheet 1 of Construction Plans
3. Show existing edge of pavement, proposed sawcut line, and proposed design grades (every 50') from existing roadway
to lip of gutter - Sheet 1 of Construction plans
4. Revise the storm drainage report to indicate that future design of each lot must require retention of the 100-year storm
drainage event. The retention calculations for each lot should be removed from this report, as the hardscape/landscape
areas for each lot will be different for each improved lot. Consequently, Lehi City will require a storm drainage study for
each individual lot at the time of development and site plan approval.
Luke – Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
5. Include a summary of total project acreage and total acreage in lots on final plat.
6. Remove phone number from preliminary plat.
7. Change all colored text and lines to black on all applicable sheets.

DRC General Comments:
1. Public works - When the individual lots develop, they will require a SWPPP and LTSWMP.
2. Traffic – when these lots get developed individually, a traffic impact study may be required depending on the land use.


PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)
PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
2. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
   improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
3. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
   supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
   necessary supplies for the development.
4. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 28, 2024

5.   Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).
6.   Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
     monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
     Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
     Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
7.   Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
     scheduled.

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Submit a title report to be reviewed by Lehi City Attorney.
4. Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
   property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.
5. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
6. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION WILL MOVE FORWARD TO PLANNING COMMISSION MARCH 14TH.

FINAL SUBDIVISION APPROVED PENDING PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
