                             ATKINSON SUBDIVISION CONCEPT
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant        Steve Atkinson
                          Meeting Date         March 14, 2024
              Requested Action/Purpose         Review and consideration of a subdivision concept plan
                         Decision Type         Administrative
                               Location        498 North 900 East
                           Project Area        0.91 acres
                        Existing Zoning        RA-1 (proposed R-1-Flex)
      General Plan Land Use Designation        Low Density Residential (LDR)
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North R-1-8           Single Family Homes
                                                  South RA-1            Single Family Homes
                                                   East RA-1            Single Family Homes
                                                   West RA-1            Single Family Homes
                      Date of DRC Review       February 21, 2024
                        Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission       Final Approval
                             City Council      No Action Necessary


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat..


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Atkinson Subdivision Concept Plan located at 498 North 900 East in a
proposed R-1-Flex zone. The concept plan shows three single family lots.

The three lots appear to meet the 8,000 square foot lot size, though the square footage was not provided with the
concept. The plan also shows all the lots meeting the frontage and side and rear yard setbacks. The lot with the
existing home does not meet the front yard setback. The existing home already fronts onto 500 North and has legal
nonconforming status. If the home is ever demolished, any new home built in its place will need to meet the front
yard setback.

The DRC reviewed the proposed subdivision concept and had the following five redline comments:
1. Provide main service sizes
2. Does not meet Lehi Power standards for easement space and access for infrastructure
3. There will need to be a line extension to get power to proposed subdivision
4. Show lot sizes
5. The lot with the existing home should be numbered as well and will be included in the subdivision.

These can all be addressed with the preliminary subdivision.




Atkinson Subdivision Concept Plan
  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Standard subdivisions, like this one, are administrative items. If they meet the Development Code requirements they
must be approved. The Planning Commission reviews it to ensure that it conforms to the requirements of the
Development Code.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS
The Planning Commission may approve or approve with Code required changes the proposed concept for a
subdivision. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
    2. The proposed concept includes a legal nonconforming home.
    3. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    4. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Atkinson Subdivision Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 21, 2024

                                                     Atkinson Concept Plan
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Steve Atkinson- requests review of the Atkinson Concept Plan, a 3-lot residential subdivision located at 498 North 900
East

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney
Representatives of the Applicant Present: None Present
Date of Plans Reviewed: 2/13/2024
Time Start:
Time End:

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Provide main service sizes
2. Does not meet Lehi Power standards for easement space and access for infrastructure
3. There will need to be a line extension to get power to proposed subdivision
Garion – Fire:
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
James – Parks:
Gary – Building/Inspections:
Shelbey – Public Works:
Brad – Engineering:
Luke- Traffic:
Kim – Planning:
1. Show lot sizes
2. The lot with the existing home should be numbered as well and will be included in the subdivision.



DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 14th




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
