                                          ALTA VISTA SITE PLAN
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant          Wood Partners
                           Meeting Date          March 14, 2024
              Requested Action/Purpose           Approval of proposed exceptions to a site plan
                          Decision Type          Administrative
                               Location          Approximately Mountain Point Boulevard and Air Park Road
                            Project Area         7.93 acres
                        Existing Zoning          Transit Oriented Development (TOD)
      General Plan Land Use Designation          Transit Oriented Development (TOD)
                      Existing Land Use          Undeveloped
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use               North County               Flight Park
                                                    South TOD                  Future Vistas at the Point
                                                     East TOD                  Future Vistas at the Point
                                                     West TOD                  Future Commercial Vistas
                        Date of DRC Review       February 21, 2024
                          Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                       Planning Commission       Final approval
                               City Council      No action required


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.250. Site Plan Approval Process. (Am 5/22/01; 08/13/02; 11/09/04)
The review and approval process for a Site Plan shall be as follows:
Permitted Uses (2) Site Plans associated with a permitted use and with a total valuation, including building and all
associated improvements, greater than $500,000 dollars shall require approval by the Planning Commission,
following a review by the DRC. The Planning Commission may require that the approval of a Site Plan be forwarded
to the City Council if they determine a project is likely to have a significant impact on traffic, environmental quality,
lighting, compatibility of uses, or the health, safety, or general welfare of the surrounding properties, property values,
or residents. The Planning Commission and or City Council may hold a public hearing on any project likely to have
a significant impact on the surrounding property, values or residents.

Section 37.020. Multi Family Design Standards.
        a. Balconies and covered porches. Balconies or covered porches at least 50 square feet in size shall be
             incorporated on some of the units, at least one per building. Balconies or covered porches may be placed on
             the side or rear of a building. The 50 square feet for covered porches must be in addition to any covered
             entry area over the front door (see figure 137a).

    1.   Pedestrian circulation. Multi-family residential projects shall provide a circulation plan and include the following
         improvements to improve pedestrian circulation and safety:

         a.   Pedestrian walkways that interconnect the adjacent streets, open spaces, parking areas, building entrys,
              adjacent sites and adjacent master planned trails where applicable. Each building located along a public road
              shall provide a sidewalk connection from the building entrance to the public sidewalk.

         b.   Walkways shall be hard surfaced with concrete, brick pavers or asphalt.

         c.   Crosswalks shall be placed where pedestrian walkways cross streets and internal roads and shall be painted
              or made of concrete or brick pavers.



Alta Vista Site Plan
  PROPERTY HISTORY

December 12, 2017          City Council approved a general plan amendment to add a TOD land use designation

April 23, 2019             City Council approved the Vistas at the Point Concept Plan

August 31, 2020            Property came into Lehi as part of the Goulding Annexation

September 7, 2021          City Council approved the Vistas at the Point Preliminary Subdivision


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Alta Vista Site Plan located at approximately Mountain Point Boulevard and
Air Park Road. This approval specifically includes allowing an exception for sidewalk connections from the main
floor units to the public sidewalk and one balcony that is reduced in size.

General Layout
The proposed site plan includes five apartment buildings with a total of 304 apartment units. The site plan also
includes a clubhouse, private streets, and parking. The layout is substantially the same as the approved land use
plan for the Vistas TOD and the preliminary subdivision. Some changes were made to the layout to meet the
requests of Flight Park users who were worried about wind disruptions.

The apartment units do not have enough parking to meet the reduced requirements approved with the preliminary
subdivision. They added a comment on the plan, that the commercial parking on the west side of Mountain Point
Boulevard will also need to be constructed at the same time to ensure an adequate supply of parking.

The applicant worked with Staff to meet most of the Development Code requirements. They were unable to meet
two of the requirements and request the Planning Commission to grant exceptions.

Exception for Sidewalk Connections
The power department requires a ten-foot PUE for power lines and their power equipment on the side of the private
streets. They do not allow for structures over these easements. With the grade in this area, sidewalk connections
require stairs. The power department will allow three stairs in their PUE. The applicant did an analysis of the slope
and provided documentation on where these connections could be provided and where they could not. This analysis
is included in the packet.

The applicant also worked with Staff to ensure an entrance into the building from the sidewalk on each side.

The topography and slopes in this area may justify an exception to the sidewalk connection requirement.

Exception for Balcony Size
The applicant also was unable to provide the 50 square foot balcony everywhere, They request an exception for one
40 square foot balcony.

DRC Comments
The DRC reviewed the proposed site plan and had nine redline comments including:
1. Too many risers. 3 Max (pg 9)
2. Curb, gutter and sidewalk must be shown as being constructed along entire frontage of proposed project. This
    information will need to be reflected upon all construction sheets. Also, make sure to show the PUE behind the
    sidewalk sections so that City staff can confirm that there are no expected conflicts.




Alta Vista Site Plan
3.    Individual entrances and sidewalk connections are required for all ground floor units, the Planning Commission
      may grant an exception for those that cannot meet the requirement.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Site plans are administrative items that must be approved if they meet the Code. This site plan requests two
exceptions, the Planning Commission can determine whether to grant the exceptions or not, but need to articulate
why they grant it or do not.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve with exceptions or approve without exceptions the proposed site
plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The proposed exceptions should/should not be granted.
      2.   The proposed site plan meets/ does not meet the intent of the multi family design and transit oriented
           development design requirements.
      3.   The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or
           improvements in the vicinity and will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, general welfare or
           convenience.
      4.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and
           policies of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
      5.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate
           size and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that
           it will not be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
      6.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public meeting.




Alta Vista Site Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 21, 2024

                                                       Alta Vista Site Plan
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Wood Partners- requests review of the Alta Vista Site Plan including 304 apartment units located at Mountain Point
Boulevard and Air Park Road in a TOD zone.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Bradley Magnusson, Bryce Long, Travis Perry, Marcus Robinson, Preston Dean,
    Jacob Clark, Jeff Young
Date of Plans Reviewed: 2/13/2024
Time Start: 1:22 pm
Time End: 1:38pm

CRITICAL ISSUE:
1. The road improvements (Flight Park Rd.) and circuit get-aways from North Point Sub must be installed prior to precon.

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
2. Indicate easement along Flight Park Road. Labelled UDOT. Provide documentation that UDOT Is okay with Lehi
    utilities installed in the UDOT easement.
3. Provide voltage sizes on services
4. Water valves in PUE (pg 23)
5. Too many risers. 3 Max (pg 9)
6. Where there is power equipment on a slope, it needs to have retention and flat surface large enough for our
    working/install clearances
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan (rallred@lehi-ut.gov)– Water/Sewer:
7. Remove gate valve off of tee on hydrant. Hydrant tee needs 1 6'' valve to hydrant.
James– Parks: No comments
Arnie – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Brad – Engineering:
8. Curb, gutter and sidewalk must be shown as being constructed along entire frontage of proposed project. This
    information will need to be reflected upon all construction sheets. Also, make sure to show the PUE behind the
    sidewalk sections so that City staff can confirm that there are no expected conflicts.
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
9. Individual entrances and sidewalk connections are required for all ground floor units, the Planning Commission may
    grant an exception for those that cannot meet the requirement.

PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
2. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
   must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
3. Provide a title report to be reviewed by Lehi City Attorney.
4. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
5. Provide signed easement verification sheet.
6. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
   Works (Contact Shelbey Brewer at Sbrewer@lehi-ut.gov).
7. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Lehi City Water Dept. (call Rochelle Peterson at 385-201-2429). This should
   be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 21, 2024

8.  Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
    Brewer at Sbrewer@lehi-ut.gov) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed agreement must be recorded
    by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
9. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
10. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
11. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
12. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 14th




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
