         NORTH LAKE COMMERCIAL GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        JP&R Construction
                                  Meeting Date         March 28, 2024
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation for an amendment to the General
                                                       Plan
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          Approximately 1250 South 1100 West
                                      Acreage          2.99 acres
                              Existing Zoning          N/A (Not annexed)
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          C (Commercial)
               Proposed Land Use Designation           C-H (Heavy Commercial)
                            Existing Land Use          Construction/Storage
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North N/A              Single family residential
                                                        South PF              STRATA Storage Yard
                                                         East N/A             Sheds
                                                         West N/A             Agriculture
                             Date of DRC Review        March 6, 2024
                               Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval
The Planning Commission should consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a General Plan
amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES




North Lake Commercial General Plan Amendment
  REPORT ANALYSIS

JP&R Construction is requesting to amend the General Plan land use designation of 2.99 acres of property located at
approximately 1250 South 1100 West, changing the land use designation from Commercial to Heavy Commercial.

The applicant requests this change to Heavy Commercial to develop office/warehouse type space on the property. The
applicant will need to annex the property into Lehi City, but the request to change the General Plan would be the first
step in the process.

The applicant feels that the change from Commercial to Heavy Commercial is consistent with the surrounding area.
Within a close proximity you have the STRATA Networks storage yard, Lehi Indoor Storage, Maverik Gas Station,
Five Inc, and Shiny Shell Car Wash.

A concept plan was submitted concurrently with the General Plan amendment request.

The Development Review Committee had two redline comments on the amendment:
1. Update narrative to clarify this property is shown on General Plan as Heavy Commercial. It is not annexed yet, so it
    does not have a current zoning.
2. The Planning Commission and City Council should consider the proximity to current and future residential uses in
    the area. If approved, the design of the buildings will be crucial in keeping things compatible with the surrounding
    residential uses. Perhaps a development agreement could be used to ensure that the architecture is in keeping with a
    residential area. The example of the barn building would be something that would be more compatible than some of
    the other traditional office/warehouse examples that the applicant provided.

Please take DRC comments into consideration.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a legislative item the Planning Commission has a high level of discretion in whether they approve General Plan
Amendments or not. The Commission should consider the impacts on the current and future residents, neighborhood
and area.




North Lake Commercial General Plan Amendment
  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendment to the General
Plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed amendment to the Lehi City General Plan is/is not detrimental to the public health, safety,
         and welfare of Lehi City.
    2.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provisions
         of the General Plan and its various elements.
    3.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not consistent with the land uses and zoning of nearby and
         adjoining properties.
    4.   The proposed General Plan amendment will/will not have a substantial adverse effect on surrounding prop-
         erty.
    5.   The affected site is/is not physically suitable in terms of design, location, shape, size, operating characteris-
         tics, and the provision of public services to accommodate any potential future uses, including all landscap-
         ing, loading areas, open spaces, parking areas, setbacks, buffering/screening, walls, fences, yards, and other
         required features.
    6.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




North Lake Commercial General Plan Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         March 6, 2024

                                  North Lake Commercial Park General Plan Amendment
                                                DRC Redline Comments

JP&R Construction- requests review of the North Lake Commercial Park General Plan Amendment on 2.99 acres located
at approximately 1250 South 1100 West, changing the land use designation from C to C-H.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, Trent Dyer
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 2/27/2024
Time Start: 2:35 pm
Time End: 2:38 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
Trent – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Update narrative to clarify this property is shown on General Plan as Heavy Commercial. It is not annexed yet, so it
    does not have a current zoning.
2. The Planning Commission and City Council should consider the proximity to current and future residential uses in the
    area. If approved, the design of the buildings will be crucial in keeping things compatible with the surrounding
    residential uses. Perhaps a development agreement could be used to ensure that the architecture is in keeping with a
    residential area. The example of the barn building would be something that would be more compatible than some of the
    other traditional office/warehouse examples that the applicant provided.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 28, 2024
(NEED ENVELOPES BEFORE SCHEDULING)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
