                              BCP GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        BCP Development
                                  Meeting Date         March 28, 2024
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation for an amendment to the General
                                                       Plan
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          Approximately 1200 West 1450 South
                                      Acreage          14.67
                              Existing Zoning          TH-5
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          VLDRA with Village Overlay
               Proposed Land Use Designation           LDR
                            Existing Land Use          Agriculture
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North TH-5            Agriculture
                                                        South PF             Dry Creek Elementary
                                                         East TH-5           Single family residential/Agriculture
                                                         West PF             Open Space-Future Park
                             Date of DRC Review        March 6, 2024
                               Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval
The Planning Commission should consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a General Plan
amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (LDR) The Low Density Residential (LDR) classification provides for predomi-
nantly single family residential areas and single family dwelling units with an overall neighborhood density not to




BCP General Plan Amendment
exceed 4 units per acre.

VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL (VLDRA) The purpose of the Very Low Density Res-
idential/Agricultural (VLDRA) classification is to provide for single-family residential areas within a rural setting,
with an overall neighborhood density not to exceed 1.75 units per acre. Much of the area designated as VLDRA is
located where small-scale farming, hobby farming, or other agricultural uses are present. Where new development is
allowed adjacent to existing agricultural areas, the new development must be sensitive to the existing uses. Larger
lot sizes and lower density zones that allow for animal rights will be encouraged where adjacent to such agricultural
areas. In particular, provision should be made for hobby farms, ranchettes, or equestrian-related developments where
the development is to be located adjacent to similar existing uses.

The VLDRA designation is also intended to encourage creativity and flexibility of planning and design through the
use of Planned Residential Design projects and Planned Unit Developments, where clustering and open space, with
a variety of lot sizes and a range of housing choices can be accomplished while still maintaining a base density of
1.75 units per acre. Although new development in VLDRA areas is allowed, the existing agricultural uses will be
encouraged to remain. Growth should be directed in an orderly manner, growing outward from existing developed
areas where public facilities are available.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

December 16, 2022          The BCP annexation was recorded for this property with a zoning of TH-5.

August 8, 2023             The Dry Creek Village Zone Change to MU was denied by the City Council.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

BCP Development is requesting to amend the General Plan land use designation of 14.67 acres of property located at
approximately 1200 West 1450 South, changing the land use designation from VLDRA with the Pioneer Village Mixed
Use Overlay to LDR.

The applicant requests this change to LDR with the anticipation that it would represent more of an R-1-Flex style zon-
ing, with smaller lot single family residential homes. The General Plan amendment and ensuing zone change would al-
low for a density of 3.5 units per acre.

A concept plan was not submitted with the General Plan amendment request.

The Development Review Committee had two redline comments on the amendment:
1. The Planning Commission and City Council will need to determine if they are comfortable allowing this property
    to move forward independent from the other properties in the Mixed-Use village overlay zone, or if they would pre-
    fer to keep the current General Plan designation of VLDRA until such time as the entire village area can be master
    planned under one overall plan. If this area is changed to the LDR designation, the added density (difference be-
    tween VLDRA and LDR) should be removed from the 500 units designated for the village overlay.
2. If the overall vision of the Mixed-Use Village Overlay is not being accomplished with this proposed change, the
    General Plan designation should remain as VLDRA.

Please take DRC comments into consideration.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a legislative item the Planning Commission has a high level of discretion in whether they approve General Plan
Amendments or not. The Commission should consider the impacts on the current and future residents, neighborhood



BCP General Plan Amendment
and area.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendment to the General
Plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed amendment to the Lehi City General Plan is/is not detrimental to the public health, safety,
         and welfare of Lehi City.
    2.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provisions
         of the General Plan and its various elements.
    3.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not consistent with the land uses and zoning of nearby and
         adjoining properties.
    4.   The proposed General Plan amendment will/will not have a substantial adverse effect on surrounding prop-
         erty.
    5.   The affected site is/is not physically suitable in terms of design, location, shape, size, operating characteris-
         tics, and the provision of public services to accommodate any potential future uses, including all landscap-
         ing, loading areas, open spaces, parking areas, setbacks, buffering/screening, walls, fences, yards, and other
         required features.
    6.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




BCP General Plan Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         March 6, 2023

                                           BCP Property General Plan Amendment
                                                 DRC Redline Comments

BCP Development- requests review of the BCP Property General Plan Amendment on 14.67 acres of property located at
approximately 1200 West 1450 South, changing the land use designation from VLDRA with the Pioneer Village Mixed Use
Overlay to LDR.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, Trent Dyer
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Tony Trane
Date of Plans Reviewed: 2/27/2024
Time Start: 3:08 pm
Time End: 3:18 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks:
1. I am wondering if this should read 1300 West in the narrative.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning:
2. The Planning Commission and City Council will need to determine if they are comfortable allowing this property to
    move forward independent from the other properties in the Mixed-Use village overlay zone, or if they would prefer to
    keep the current General Plan designation of VLDRA until such time as the entire village area can be master planned
    under one overall plan. If this area is changed to the LDR designation, the added density (difference between VLDRA
    and LDR) should be removed from the 500 units designated for the village overlay.
3. If the overall vision of the Mixed-Use Village Overlay is not being accomplished with this proposed change, the
    General Plan designation should remain as VLDRA.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 28, 2024.
(NEED ENVELOPES BEFORE SCHEDULING)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
2/1/2024

Lehi City
Attn: City Council and Staff

Subject: BCP Property General Plan Amendment


The property owner, BCP Development, located at 1450 South 1300 East (serial numbers
13:030:0018 and 13:030:0089) is requesting a General Plan Amendment for the Lehi City
General Plan map for the property of approximately 14.67 acres. The current general plan
designation for the mixed-use village overlay was discussed with Council and a recommendation
given to adjust this area to define this section to be more in line with the LDR designation. This
General Plan Amendment submittal is requesting approximately 14.67 acres to change the
designation from Mixed-use Village Overlay to LDR with the anticipation of a future zoning that
will represent more of an R1-Flex style zoning. We feel this is an appropriate request based on
the direction previously received from the council along with the criteria below:

(a) In general, the topography, vegetation, and other natural features present on the property of
the proposed zone change is flat farm land.


(b) The existing land use(s) of the property proposed for zone change and those requested by
the owner are currently used as farm land. The lots owned by the school district to the south are
approved as 1/3 acre lots which is also the agreement for the future lots to the west of the BCP
property.


(c) The current and potential (if the property were developed) population and residential density
of the proposed area has been outlined in the current City General Plan to include a future
development potential of 500 units. The intent of the overlay zone in the general plan was to
designate a mixed use master planned area that would create more of a walkable community and
uses to compliment each other. Through discussions with the city, it was represented that
the General Plan designation for density was defined at 500 units for the overlay area which
would give an average density of approximately 7.5 units per acre across the 67 acres. The
request to the general plan would bring the average density to the southern area of the overlay to
around 2.5 unit per acre which is a significant reduction from the current designation of 500 units.


(d) The proposed amendment will comply with and achieve Lehi City’s land use(s), goals and
policies outlined in the Lehi City General Plan by helping to more clearly identify the location of
the uses within the original thought-out overlay designation. The property is located in the center
of a future city park, a school to the south and the potential of the mixed use overlay zone to the
north including commercial. The seems to be a more appropriate direction due to the current
conditions in the area.


The overall direction from Lehi City has been to coordinate this area for a cohesive development
due to the surrounding features and amenities. We feel that this proposal for the LDR
designation is in line with the direction of the intent for the current conditions of the area and will
allow for the northern portion of the overlay to work through options to create a cohesive
development.
