                     WILSON 8-FOOT FENCE CONDITIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Ryan Wilson
                         Meeting Date         March 28, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        1455 North Sierra Way
                       Existing Zoning        R-2
              General Plan Designation        MDR (Medium Density Residential)
                    Existing Land Use         Single-family residential
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North R-2                       Single-family residential
                                                 South R-2                       Single-family residential
                                                  East R-2                       Single-family residential
                                                  West R-2                       Single-family residential
                     Date of DRC Review       March 6, 2024
                       Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval
                           City Council       No action required


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.




                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest.

Section 12.070. Compatibility Assessment.

A.     Fences, Walls and Hedges.

     1. Fences, walls, and hedges shall not exceed six feet in height, unless a Conditional Use Permit is authorized
     by the Planning Commission in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 9 of this Code. Any fence, wall, hedge,
     or other material serving as a fence shall not create a sight distance hazard to vehicular or pedestrian traffic as
     determined by the Zoning Administrator or City Engineer, regardless of whether the fence, wall, or hedge meets
     the requirements of this section.

     2. In all residential districts, walls, fences, or hedges located on the front property line, or which are located
     within 15 feet of a front property line, or located on a side yard property line adjacent to a street, shall not exceed
     48 inches in height as measured from the adjacent sidewalk or finished grade. However, a fence not more than
     six feet high may be constructed in a side yard adjacent to a street on a corner lot, provided:
          (a) it does not extend into the clear view area of the street intersection as defined by section 12-070-D; and
          (b) it does not extend into the sight triangle of an adjacent driveway. The sight triangle of an adjacent drive-
          way shall be 20 feet as measured form the intersection point of the driveway and the back of walk (see Figures
          1 and 2).

The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest.


  PROPERTY HISTORY
June 3, 2022                Property recorded as part of the Gardner Point Phase 2 subdivision.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval of the Wilson eight-foot conditional use fence located at 1455 North Sierra Way.

All fences greater than six feet in height require a conditional use permit. The applicant provided an aerial map show-
ing where the eight-foot fence is desired to be installed. It surrounds the property. The applicant’s narrative states that
this fence is to ameliorate privacy concerns as the home behind the applicant is graded higher, and protection from
high winds. There is existing utility equipment on the corner of the applicant’s property that would need to continue
to have free access.

DRC Comments
There were four comments from the DRC, including:
    1. No fence in PUE, maintain access to existing dry utilities equipment.
    2. Doesn’t seem to be unusual grade for the property.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional Use applications are administrative items. Meaning if they meet the Code they must be approved. How-
ever, our Code does outline some conditions that may be placed on these uses to mitigate against potential harm to
neighbors.

This is a public hearing item. Public comments focused on potential negative impacts and any conditions that could


                                                                                                                          2
reduce these impacts provide useful information to the Commission.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed conditional use and site plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
2.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
3.    That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
      and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
      be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
4.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                        3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 6, 2024

                                              Conditional Use for an 8-foot Fence
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Ryan Wilson- requests review of a conditional use for an 8-foot fence at 1455 North Sierra Way.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Ryan Wilson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 2/27/2024
Time Start: 1:05 PM
Time End: 1:10 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. No fence in PUE, maintain access to existing dry utilities equipment.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary – Building/Inspections:
2. If approved a building permit will be required.
3. Lots in Traverse Mountain have the same wind and visual problem, and they work with 6 feet.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Brad – Engineering: No comments.
Luke- Traffic: No comment.
Kim – Planning:
4. Doesn’t seem to be unusual grade for the property.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEUDLED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 28TH.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Requesting approval for an 8ft fence surrounding the rear and sides of my home at 1455 N Sierra Way.
We would like approval for an 8ft fence for a couple of reasons:

   1. To increase privacy since the home built behind us is on a much higher grade.
   2. Reduce wind since it is very windy in our area.

We have already received approval from our HOA.
