                                      Applicant        Edge Homes
                                  Meeting Date         March 28, 2024
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation for an amendment to the General
                                                       Plan
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          Approximately 2500 West Main Street
                                      Acreage          51.5 acres
                              Existing Zoning          A-5
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          VLDRA
               Proposed Land Use Designation           LDR
                            Existing Land Use          Agriculture
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North R-1-Flex        Single-family residential
                                                       South R-1-22          Single-family residential
                                                         East TH-5           Single-family residential
                                                        West RA-1            Jordan Willows subdivision
                             Date of DRC Review        March 6, 2024
                               Assigned Planner        Katie Bussell


                            Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval




Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval
The Planning Commission should consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a General Plan
amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Gardner Plumb Main Street General Plan Amendment
February 10, 1999         The property was part of the Lehi West Crossroads annexation.

November 17, 2022         The Gardner Plumb General Plan Amendment from VLDRA to LDR filed by Gardner
                          Company was given a negative recommendation by the Lehi City Planning Commission.




The applicant is requesting to amend the General Plan land use designation of this property from Very Low Density



Gardner Plumb Main Street General Plan Amendment
Residential Agriculture (VLDRA) to Low Density Residential (LDR). The property is currently zoned A-5, which
meets the VLDRA designation. The applicant has stated in their narrative that they are pursuing a General Plan
amendment to provide quarter acre and above sized single-family lots to better match the lot sizes in the neighboring
Jordan Willows subdivision. The current General Plan land use designation of VLDRA requires half-acre lots. A
concept plan was submitted with the General Plan application, but it was not accepted for review by City staff as it
did not have a separate concept plan application submitted with it.

The DRC had 4 redline comments, all of which are from Planning. They include:
1. Planning Staff has a concern that by increasing density in VLDRA areas, it will take away from density/utility
    capacities in areas better suited for more density such as the TOD areas we have designated along UTA's corri-
    dors. Although this property does border LDR and VLDR, the City Council and the Planning Commission have
    indicated that any new density in Lehi should be located in TOD and other specific areas pre-planned areas. This
    is outside of those areas and is not recommended that we deviate from our adopted General Plan land use map
    and policies.
2. Planning Staff supports staying with the current VLDRA designation in keeping with the long range vision of the
    General Plan for this area. The General Plan states: "Much of the area designated as VLDRA is located in the
    south and west areas where small-scale farming, hobby farming, or other agricultural uses are present. Larger lot
    sizes and lower density zones that allow for animal rights will be encouraged where adjacent to such agricultural
    areas. In particular, provision should be made for hobby farms, ranchettes, or equestrian-related developments
    where the development is to be located adjacent to similar existing uses."

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.




As a legislative item the Planning Commission has a high level of discretion in whether they approve General Plan
Amendments or not. The Commission should consider the impacts of additional density on adjacent neighborhoods,
the impacts to existing city infrastructure, and if adding additional density to this parcel meets the goals of the General
Plan.




The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendment to the General
Plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed amendment to the Lehi City General Plan is/is not detrimental to the public health, safety,
         and welfare of Lehi City.
    2.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provisions
         of the General Plan and its various elements.
    3.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not consistent with the land uses and zoning of nearby and
         adjoining properties.
    4.   The proposed General Plan amendment will/will not have a substantial adverse effect on surrounding prop-
         erty.
    5.   The affected site is/is not physically suitable in terms of design, location, shape, size, operating characteris-
         tics, and the provision of public services to accommodate any potential future uses, including all landscap-
         ing, loading areas, open spaces, parking areas, setbacks, buffering/screening, walls, fences, yards, and other
         required features.
    6.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Gardner Plumb Main Street General Plan Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         March 6, 2024

                                   Gardner Plumb Main Street General Plan Amendment
                                               DRC Redline Comments

Edge Homes- requests review of the Gardner Plumb Main Street General Plan Amendment on 51.5-acres of property
located at approximately 2500 West Main Street, changing the land use designation from VLDRA to LDR.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Brandon Parr, Brandon Watson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 2/26/2024
Time Start: 12:19 PM
Time End: 12:40 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Brad – Engineering: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
1. Planning Staff has a concern that by increasing density in VLDRA areas, it will take away from density/utility
    capacities in areas better suited for more density such as the TOD areas we have designated along UTA's corridors.
    Although this property does border LDR and VLDR, the City Council and the Planning Commission have indicated
    that any new density in Lehi should be located in TOD and other specific areas pre-planned areas. This is outside of
    those areas and is not recommended that we deviate from our adopted General Plan land use map and policies.
2. Planning Staff supports staying with the current VLDRA designation in keeping with the long range vision of the
    General Plan for this area. The General Plan states: "Much of the area designated as VLDRA is located in the south
    and west areas where small-scale farming, hobby farming, or other agricultural uses are present. Larger lot sizes and
    lower density zones that allow for animal rights will be encouraged where adjacent to such agricultural areas. In
    particular, provision should be made for hobby farms, ranchettes, or equestrian-related developments where the
    development is to be located adjacent to similar existing uses."
3. Narrative - There is VLDRA to the north and south and the lots around this are usually smaller because they are
    PUDs/PRDs
4. Narrative - You could still build those smaller lots with a pud/prd with open space dedication. There seems to be little
    incentive to grant the additional density since it would need to be added to the General Plan build out population or be
    taken from one of the MU or TOD allotted areas.


DRC COMMENTS:
Consistency with the elements of the Lehi City General Plan.
The only General Plan Element affected by the proposed amendment is the Land Use Element.

Effect of the proposed amendment on the existing goals, objectives, and policies of the Lehi City General Plan.

Insert Definitions for existing and proposed land uses from the General Plan pages 21-26


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 28TH. (NEED ENVELOPES
BEFORE SCHEDULING)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Dear Lehi City,

The following narrative is intended to provide the requested information in the Application for General
Plan Amendment.

We are requesting that the General Plan be amended to change the land use of the subject property
from VLDRA (Very Low Density Residential Agricultural) to LDR (Low Density Residential). The reason for
this change is to provide quarter acre and above sized single family lots on the subject property. The
current General Plan shows the subject property as VLDRA sandwiched between VLDR and LDR. In an
effort to provide a more consistent lot size in the area we would propose that the General Plan be
amended to allow the subject property to develop lots as LDR.

This change would not only provide the area with more consistency but would also be compatible with
the surrounding uses of the adjoining properties and communities by keeping lots and homes similar in
size. We feel that by amending the subject property to LDR, the effect on the character of the
surrounding area will be positive since the surrounding areas are of similar land use to that which we are
requesting.

Included in our application is a conceptual layout of the subject property showing the consistency to the
surrounding properties. The communities to the West and East of the subject property have average lot
sizes in the quarter acre range. There is a small neighborhood to the Southeast of the subject property
that has some larger lots in the half-acre range. We have made an effort to provide a larger lot buffer
along the South of the property with third to half acre lots, and transition to quarter-acre lots internally.
The average lot size in the conceptual layout is 12,383 square feet. This is consistent with the
surrounding properties and is at the high end of the LDR zone requirements.

We feel that based on the surrounding land uses, this amendment makes sense and provides
consistency and compatibility with the surrounding areas and provides a similar character to the
neighborhood.

In addition, there are some master planned city trails that bisect the subject property and that run along
the power corridor. We are cognizant of these trails and will work with the city to set aside the
alignments needed to accommodate these trails. We were also made aware of the city’s desire for a
public works facility in the area and would like to further discuss accommodating the city’s needs for this
facility.



Respectfully,

Brandon Parr

Edge Homes
