                          NORTH LAKE COMMERCIAL CONCEPT
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        JP&R Construction
                         Meeting Date         March 28, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose         Review and consideration of a subdivision concept plan
                        Decision Type         Administrative
                              Location        Approximately 1250 South 1100 West
                          Project Area        2.99 acres
                       Existing Zoning        N/A (Not annexed)
     General Plan Land Use Designation        C (Commercial)
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North N/A             Single family residential
                                                 South PF              STRATA Storage Yard
                                                  East N/A             Sheds
                                                  West N/A             Agriculture
                     Date of DRC Review       March 6, 2024
                       Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                            REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission       Review and recommendation
                            City Council      Final Approval


     APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the North Lake Commercial Park Concept Plan located at approximately 1250 South
1100 West. The proposed use is for two warehouse/office buildings on the three-acre lot. The purpose of this concept
application was to provide some additional detail to the Planning Commission regarding potential uses they anticipate
in the building if the concurrently submitted General Plan amendment is approved.

The concept proposal shows one building being approximately 25,000 square feet and the other is 35,000 square feet.
Each of these buildings will be divided into units ranging from 2,000 to 10,000 square feet.

The Development Review Committee let the applicant know that details for the building architecture, parking, and
landscaping will need to be clearly detailed if this proceeds to a site plan in the future.

DRC Comments
The DRC had eight redline comments, many of which were informational to the applicant. Some of note include:

1.    The site plan will require 10% open space/landscaping.
2.    Manufacturing, Industrial, Wholesale establishments require 1 stall of parking for each person employed during
      regular working hours and adequate spaces for all company owned vehicles and visitors. Some of the other uses




North Lake Commercial Concept Plan
      you propose would likely be parked at 1 stall per each 500 square feet of gross floor area or as approved by the
      Planning Commission. You will need to show parking tabulations at the time of site plan.
3.    A trip generation study will be required at Site Plan. Peak hour traffic will need to be collected at three facilitates
      similar to that being proposed. It will need to be collected by a licensed professional engineer with a specialty in
      traffic engineering. Based on this data, if the peak hour traffic projected for this facility exceeds 25 trips, then a full
      traffic impact study will be required including analyses of existing traffic and opening day traffic and include all
      project driveways and the intersection of 1100 W @ Pioneer Crossing.
4.    At the time of Site Plan approval, the east side of 1100 West must be widened to the Master-Plan size (portions of
      which may be reimbursable by City). This widening must be shown on the Concept Plan

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Concept plans are administrative items. If they meet the Development Code requirements they must be approved. The
Planning Commission reviews it to ensure that it conforms to the requirements of the Development Code. This
application is contingent upon approval of the General Plan amendment and subsequent zone change.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve or approve with Code required changes the proposed concept. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
      2. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
      3. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




North Lake Commercial Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 6, 2024

                                         North Lake Commercial Park Concept Plan
                                                 DRC Redline Comments

JP&R Construction- requests review of the North Lake Commercial Park Concept Plan located at 7700 N 8730 W
(approximately 1250 S 1100 W)

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 2/23/2024
Time Start: 2:38 pm
Time End: 2:50 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
1. 15'' sewer main. 36'' storm drain. 8'' culinary and 12'' pi main will have to be extended up from 1400 south.
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections:
2. A soils report will be required if this moves past concept.
Shelbey – Public Works:
3. These comments are FYI for if this moves past concept:

   A SWPPP and a SSOMP will be required prior to precon
   The 80th percentile storm must be retained onsite.
Brad – Engineering:
4. At time of Site Plan approval, the following utilities must be shown along 1100 West:

     8" Culinary Waterline (6" project size)
     12" PI Waterline (8" project size)

5. At the time of Site Plan approval, the east side of 1100 West must be widened to the Master-Plan size (portions of
   which may be reimbursable by City). This widening must be shown on the Concept Plan
Luke- Traffic:
6. A trip generation study will be required at Site Plan. Peak hour traffic will need to be collected at three facilitates
   similar to that being proposed. It will need to be collected by a licensed professional engineer with a specialty in traffic
   engineering. Based on this data, if the peak hour traffic projected for this facility exceeds 25 trips, then a full traffic
   impact study will be required including analyses of existing traffic and opening day traffic and include all project
   driveways and the intersection of 1100 W @ Pioneer Crossing.
Kim – Planning:
7. The site plan will require 10% open space/landscaping.
8. Manufacturing, Industrial, Wholesale establishments require 1 stall of parking for each person employed during regular
   working hours and adequate spaces for all company owned vehicles and visitors. Some of the other uses you propose
   would likely be parked at 1 stall per each 500 square feet of gross floor area or as approved by the Planning
   Commission. You will need to show parking tabulations at the time of site plan.

DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 28, 2024.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
