                                     ANDERSON ZONE CHANGE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                         Applicant        Clayton Anderson
                                     Meeting Date         March 28, 2024
                          Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed
                                                          zone change
                                 Decision Type            Legislative
                                       Location           206 North 1100 West
                                        Acreage           2.77
                                Existing Zoning           A-1
     Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           VLDRA
                                                          Very Low-Density Residential Agriculture
                     Proposed Zoning Designation          R-1-22
                               Existing Land Use          Single Family Home
                    Adjacent Zoning and Land Use          North R-1-22          Single Family
                                                           South R-1-22         Single Family
                                                            East A-1            Single Family
                                                            West A-1            Single Family
                                Date of DRC Review        March 13, 2024
                                  Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                               Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                       City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should
consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

STRONG COMMUNITIES Establish strong communities where residents have opportunities for meaningful social
connections and support systems.



Anderson Zone Change
Strategy 1 Create a life-cycle housing policy that encourages a diversity of housing types in Lehi’s neighborhoods to
provide housing options for prospective residents of differing ages, incomes, abilities, and lifestyles.

VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL (VLDRA) The purpose of the Very Low Density Res-
idential/Agricultural (VLDRA) classification is to provide for single-family residential areas within a rural setting,
with an overall neighborhood density not to exceed 1.75 units per acre. Much of the area designated as VLDRA is
located where small-scale farming, hobby farming, or other agricultural uses are present. Where new development is
allowed adjacent to existing agricultural areas, the new development must be sensitive to the existing uses. Larger
lot sizes and lower density zones that allow for animal rights will be encouraged where adjacent to such agricultural
areas. In particular, provision should be made for hobby farms, ranchettes, or equestrian-related developments where
the development is to be located adjacent to similar existing uses.

The VLDRA designation is also intended to encourage creativity and flexibility of planning and design through the
use of Planned Residential Design projects and Planned Unit Developments, where clustering and open space, with
a variety of lot sizes and a range of housing choices can be accomplished while still maintaining a base density of
1.75 units per acre. Although new development in VLDRA areas is allowed, the existing agricultural uses will be
encouraged to remain. Growth should be directed in an orderly manner, growing outward from existing developed
areas where public facilities are available.


     PROPERTY HISTORY

November 16, 1989- Property was annexed in the Gray Addition.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from A-1 to R-1-22 on 2.77 acres
of property located at approximately 206 North 1100 West. The General Plan designation of VLDRA is consistent
with the requested zoning. Many of the surrounding lots are R-1-22 with single family homes.

The rezone application will allow the applicant to build an additional single-family home. The applicant is interested
in having a half-acre lot for another home in addition to the existing dwelling.

The DRC reviewed the proposed Zone Change and had one redline comment.

1.    As a condition of recording the Zone Change Ordinance, the owner needs to complete the required water dedication
      for the R-1-22 Zone. The amount of culinary water is 0.79 acre feet per acre and irrigation water is 2.90 acre feet
      per acre.

Please consider the DRC comments in the motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes that follow the General Plan must be approved unless there is significant evidence that doing so will
have a negative impact on the health, safety or welfare of residents.

This is a public hearing item, meaning the public can speak on this item. However, the public should realize that the
zone change cannot be denied simply because they do not like the proposed development. Comments should focus
on negative impacts that would take place with the zone change.




Anderson Zone Change
  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Anderson Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          March 13, 2024

                                              Anderson Residential Zone Change
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Clayton Anderson- requests review of the Anderson Zone Change, 2.77- acres of property located at 206 North 1100 West,
changing the zoning from A-1 to R-1-22.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: None
Date of Plans Reviewed: 3/5/2024
Time Start: 2:08 pm
Time End: 2:10 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey– Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. As a condition of recording the Zone Change Ordinance, the owner needs to complete the required water dedication for
    the R-1-22 Zone. The amount of culinary water is 0.79 acre feet per acre and irrigation water is 2.90 acre feet per acre.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 28, 2024




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
A–We propose that the zoning classification for the parcel located at 206 N 1100 W be changed
from A-1 to R-1-22 to enable a potential subdivision of the parcel to half acre lots. Currently
there is 1 dwelling on the property and A-1 allows for only 1 dwelling unit per acre. If the
proposal is approved, a 2 lot subdivision including the existing dwelling and 1 half-acre lot with a
new dwelling built would be pursued.

B, C, D, and E–The plan to change said parcel to R-1-22 coincides with the General Plan as
Very Low density Residential Agricultural where the parcel is located. Lands adjoining the
property to the north and south are already in R-1-22 as well as much of the lands to the
northwest (between 1100 W and 1700 W and 300 N and 900 N). Because of the similarities of
the surrounding and adjoining lands and the new proposed zoning to remain in the Very Low
Density Residential Agricultural classification, there would be no noticeable change on the
character of the surrounding areas.




(2) _____ Supporting documentation including: a map showing the properties included in the
zone change, studies, and any other information which would allow the City Council to make a
well-informed decision.
The included image shows the property in question outlined in red.
