                               HADCO-PACIFIC ANNEXATION
                                PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant       Mark Skousen
                         Meeting Date        April 11, 2024
              Requested Action/Purpose       Review and recommendation of proposed zoning on property to be an-
                                             nexed
                        Decision Type        Legislative
                             Location        Approximately 2100 N 1450 W
                    Requested Zoning         LI (Light Industrial)
    General Plan Land Use Designation        LI
                              Acreage        10.63 acres (24.95 acres with UDOT parcels)
                    Existing Land Use        Parking & Undeveloped
       Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North C                      2100 N
                                                South LI                     Hadco Construction
                                                 East PF/A-1/C               City Park & Park n Ride
                                                 West LI                     Granite Point Business Park
                    Date of DRC Review       February 28, 2024
                      Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                            REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission       Review and recommendation
                           City Council      Final approval


  REPORT ANALYSIS

As part of the Lehi City annexation procedures, all annexation requests are required to be reviewed by the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission’s responsibility is to review the proposed annexation and determine whether
or not the requested zoning is appropriate and complies with the General Plan. The Planning Commission’s recom-
mendation will be forwarded to the City Council for their review upon final consideration of the annexation.

The General Plan designates this property as Light Industrial. The applicant’s original intention was to annex in
just 10.63 acres, but per DRC request they now show the UDOT property to bring it to 24.95 acres. The proposed
annexation will add a portion of an existing county island. This area has a general plan land use designation with
the intent that it would annex into Lehi at some point.

The DRC reviewed the proposed annexation and had no critical issue concerns. Some of their comments include:

    1.   The narrative states that the desired zoning is Light Industrial. This would require water dedication. The al-
         ternative option is to come in with TH-5 zoning, but this would require a separate zone change application
         before any development can take place.
    2.   As a condition of recording the zone change ordinance, the applicant will need to provide water dedication
         per Chapter 27 of the Development Code. The rate for the Light Industrial Zone is 1.35 acre feet per acre of
         culinary water and 1.25 acre feet per acre of irrigation water.
    3.   Recommend including all of the UDOT property to the northeast to fill in the entire County Island. The
         UDOT property could be annexed with TH-5 zoning.
    4.   On each parcel of the annexation plat, label the proposed zoning and property address (work with City Staff
         to determine new City address)
    5.   There will be a circuit study required for development.

These comments were informative for the applicant.




Hadco-Pacific Annexation
  PLANNING DIVISION RECOMMENDATION

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zoning on property to be an-
nexed. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed application does/does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    2.   Other findings as determined by the public hearing.




Hadco-Pacific Annexation
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 28, 2024

                                                    Hadco-Pacific Annexation
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Mark Skousen- requests review of the Hadco-Pacific Annexation, approximately 10.63-acres of property located at
approximately 2100 North 1450 West with a Light Industrial zoning.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Mark Skousen
Assigned Planner: Jacob
Date of Plans Reviewed: 2/20/2024
Time Start: 2:04 pm
Time End: 2:09 pm

DRC REPORT:
   1. Critical Issues: None

    2.   Location of existing and proposed City facilities

    3.   Zoning required or recommended- Light Industrial

    4.   Distances to schools/parks/shopping

    5.   Transportation


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:

    1.   The narrative states that the desired zoning is Light Industrial. This would require water dedication. The
         alternative option is to come in with TH-5 zoning, but this would require a separate zone change application before
         any development can take place.
    2.   As a condition of recording the zone change ordinance, the applicant will need to provide water dedication per
         Chapter 27 of the Development Code. The rate for the Light Industrial Zone is 1.35 acre feet per acre of culinary
         water and 1.25 acre feet per acre of irrigation water.
    3.   Recommend including all of the UDOT property to the northeast to fill in the entire County island. The UDOT
         property could be annexed with TH-5 zoning.
    4.   On each parcel of the annexation plat, label the proposed zoning and property address (work with City Staff to
         determine new City address)
    5.   There will be a circuit study required for development.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR CITY COUNCIL ON MARCH 26, 2024.

(PLANNING STAFF - REMEMBER TO SEND AN ELECTRONIC COPY OF THE ANNEXATION PLAT TO THE
COUNTY SURVEYOR’S OFFICE FOR THEIR “PRE CHECK” AND REMEMBER TO CHECK NAME ON
ANNEXATION PLAT THAT IT STAYS THE SAME THROUGHOUT THE PROCESS AND ON ALL LEGAL
DOCUMENTS)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                                            JDH Development
                           Application For Annexation by Petition for JDCO LLC

Owner would like to Annex 7 parcels, approximately 10.63 acres of land into the city of Lehi.
Approximate location is 2 2100 North St and N 1450 W. St, Lehi, UT.

3) Annexation Information Requirements

        a) Topography is flat, with little to no vegetation. Currently there are parked construction vehicles and
           asphalt on a portion of the property being annexed.
        b) Light Industrial
        c) Property would continue to be used as Light Industrial. The proposed development is a new office
           building for HADCO Construction including asphalt and parking.
        d) Light Industrial conforms to Lehi City’s General Plan, and industrial buildings are permitted use.
        e) We are looking to develop the property in the near future. We are working with our architects and
           engineers on potential impacts for the City. Including culinary water, wastewater, drainage, fire
           protection, and waste removal.
        f) Water rights should flow with the land. Not necessary for annexation.


2. Final Local Entity Plat - Included
