                               GARRETT’S WAY ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant         Brian Garrett
                                Meeting Date          April 11, 2024
                     Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                      change
                              Decision Type           Legislative
                                   Location           450 East 200 South
                                    Acreage           0.63 acres
                            Existing Zoning           RA-1 (Residential/Agriculture)
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           MDR (Medium Density Residential)
               Proposed Zoning Designation            R-2 (Medium Density Residential)
                          Existing Land Use           Single Family Home
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North PF                  Lehi Outdoor Pool
                                                       South R-1-8              Single Family Residential
                                                        East R-1-8              Single Family Residential
                                                        West R-1-8              Single Family Residential
                            Date of DRC Review        March 20, 2024
                              Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                  City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

STRONG COMMUNITIES
1.       Establish strong communities where residents have opportunities for meaningful social connections and
support systems.



Garrett’s Way Zone Change
Strategy 1 Create a life-cycle housing policy that encourages a diversity of housing types in Lehi’s neighborhoods to
         provide housing options for prospective residents of differing ages, incomes, abilities, and lifestyles.

MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (MDR)
The Medium Density Residential (MDR) classification is used to identify and encourage the development of a variety
of moderate density housing types, including single family dwellings, two-family dwellings, and townhomes, with an
overall density not to exceed 6 dwelling units per acre.


     PROPERTY HISTORY

September 8, 1992- Property was annexed into Lehi City with the Donna L. Woffinden Annexation


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from RA-1 to R-2. The zone change is
consistent with the general plan and the zoning of the surrounding area. The proposed amendment would allow for a
future flag lot subdivision.

There were two DRC redline comments including:

1.    As a condition of recording the zone change ordinance and prior to submission of an application for the 2-lot final
      subdivision, the owner needs to complete the required water dedication for the R-2 zone. The amount of culinary
      water is 0.45-acre feet per dwelling.

Please consider all DRC comments in your decision.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative decisions. However, zone changes that meet the General Plan must be approved unless
strong reasons are provided for the detriment that the zone change would cause to the City.

The Public can comment on zone changes but should understand that this proposed zone change meets the General Plan
so significant reasons would need to be provided to deny the proposed zone change.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
      2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
      3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
           properties;
      4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
           the General Plan;
      5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
           for nearby and adjoining properties;
      6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Garrett’s Way Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          March 20, 2024

                                            Garrett’s Way Residential Zone Change
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Brian Garrett- requests review of the Garrett’s Way Zone Change located at 450 East 200 South, changing the zoning on
0.63 acres from RA-1 to R-2.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Todd Trane
Date of Plans Reviewed: 3/12/2024
Time Start: 1:23 pm
Time End: 1:28 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey– Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Either a concept plan application needs to be filed or this concept plan needs to be removed from the submittal before it
    goes to Planning Commission
2. As a condition of recording the zone change ordinance and prior to submission of an application for the 2-lot final
    subdivision, the owner needs to complete the required water dedication for the R-2 zone. The amount of culinary water
    is 0.45-acre feet per dwelling.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 11, 2024.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                                   ZONING AMENDMENT NARRATIVE

                                            GARRETT’S WAY

                                               LEHI, UTAH

                                              MARCH 2024

INTRODUCTION

Laramy and Camille Adams live at 450 East 200 South, Lehi. They have a single home on 0.63 acres. The
front of the property is heavily used with their home, garage, and yard. The back half of the property is
used for extra parking and storage. Several homes in the area, in similar situa ons, have subdivided the
back of the property into a ﬂag lot. One of these projects is 3 doors away and two others within a block.
The Adams would like to do something similar, but a zone amendment is required to do so.

ZONING

The property is currently zoned “RA-1”. The proposed amendment is for the property to be “R-2”. Most
of the area surrounding the property is currently zoned R-2 or R-1-8, so this amendment would be
consistent with the goals and policies of the general plan. This would enable the owners to subdivide
and create a ﬂag lot. The property is big enough and the house is situated in a way to allow for the
subdivision under the current Lehi City Code.
