                 CHAPTER 23 DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant        Lehi City
                           Meeting Date         April 11, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation on proposed amendments to the Lehi City
                                                Development Code
                            Decision Type       Legislative
                      Date of DRC Review        March 27, 2024

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                             City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General Plan.
In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and the City
Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties.
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The Planning Division is proposing a Development Code Amendment to Chapter 23, Signs of the Development
Code. Specifically, they are proposing updates to raise the allowed size for temporary signs which are exempt from
review and clarify regulations on permitting temporary signs. The suggested size change increases the maximum
size from 2 square feet to 4 square feet for exempt from review temporary signs.

Additionally, this amendment is being proposed to clarify inconsistencies between the sign permit application and
Chapter 23. The sign permit application mentions special event signs and having a process to obtain a permit for that
type of temporary sign was determined to be necessary. Part of the process of obtaining a permit will include obtain-
ing permission from the private property owner and removing the signs in a timely manner following conclusion of
the event.

This change would make the application process for temporary signs such as events and garage sales more consistent with
City Code. It will also help regulate the duration and placement of such signs.




Chapter 23 Development Code Amendment
DRC had no additional comments for this Code Amendment.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Development and Municipal Code Amendments are Legislative items with full discretion. This means that the Plan-
ning Commission may choose to provide a positive or negative recommendation. They also may request any changes
to the proposed amendment.

The public may also speak to the proposed amendment. They can bring up any concerns or support for the changes.
In order for changes to happen to the written text, they will need the Planning Commission to include it in their motion
and have City Council approve it.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendments to the Lehi
City Development Code. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provi-
         sions of the General Plan and its various elements.
    2.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Chapter 23 Development Code Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 27, 2024

                                                Amendment to Chapter 23, Signs
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Lehi City- requests review of an amendment to Chapter 23, Signs of the Development Code to clarify regulations on
temporary signs.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: None
Date of Plans Reviewed: 3/14/2024
Time Start: 1:07 pm
Time End: 1:10 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 11, 2024.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
 Community Development Department –
 Planning Division



 Office




March 14, 2024

Narrative –Chapter 23 Development Code Amendment

The Planning Division is proposing a Development Code Amendment to Chapter 23, Signs of
the Development Code. Specifically, we are proposing updates to raise the allowed size for
exempt temporary signs and clarify regulations on permitting temporary signs.

Additionally, this amendment is being proposed to clarify inconsistencies between the sign
permit application and Chapter 23. The sign permit application mentions special event signs and
having a process to obtain a permit for that type of temporary sign was determined to be
necessary. Part of the process of obtaining a permit will include obtaining permission from the
private property owner and removing the signs in a timely manner following conclusion of the
event.

Please contact the Planning Division if you have any questions.

Thank you,

Jacob Curtis, AICP
Planner 3
         E. holiday decorations associated with any generally recognized national, local, or religious holiday;

         F.   illuminated building accents and decorations;

         G. painted or applied wall accents and decorations;

         H. wayfinding on-premises signs not exceeding two square feet in area, limited to two per driveway entrance;

         I.   public or quasi-public street signs, and on-premises signs erected by civic institutions;

         J.   public art, including original art displays;

         K. security and warning signs regulating the use of premises, not exceeding one sign two square feet in area in
            residential areas and one sign five square feet in area in commercial and industrial zones, but these number
            and size limitations shall not apply to the posting of conventional “no trespassing” signs in accordance with
            state law;

         L. signs inside a building;

         M. signs carved into a building or raised in integral relief on a building, which are a physical part of the
            building façade and part of the physical construction of the building materials comprising the façade, but
            not including letters or signs that are merely attached to the exterior façade of the building, even if of the
            same finish or color as the building;

         N. signs required by federal, state, or City law;

         O. signs not visible from a public right-of-way; and

         P.   temporary signs of two four square feet and under, except temporary signs prohibited by other sections of
              this chapter.


     Section 23.080. Sign Approvals. (Amended 01/11/22; 07/12/22)
a.   Signs Approved by the Zoning Administrator. Unless otherwise stated in this chapter, the following signs in non-
     residential zoning districts may be approved by the Zoning Administrator provided a complete sign permit
     application has been submitted and the signs otherwise meet the requirements of this chapter:

          i. awning signs;

         ii. canopy signs;

        iii. drive-thru signs;

         iv. electronic display signs where the electronic display portion is fifty square feet or less;

         v. monument signs;

         vi. projecting signs;

        vii. subdivision monument signs;
                                                                 23-7
       viii. suspended signs;

         ix. temporary signs over two four square feet;

         x. wall signs; and

         xi. wayfinding on-premises signs.

b.   Signs Approved by the Planning Commission. The following signs may be approved by the Planning Commission
     as a conditional use provided that a complete sign permit application has been submitted and reviewed by the
     Reviewing Departments and the signs meet the requirements of this chapter:

          i. electronic display signs larger than fifty square feet;

         ii. marquees; and

         iii. pylon signs.

c.   Each sign application shall be reviewed by the Planning Division to ensure compliance with this chapter prior to its
     submission to the Zoning Administrator or Reviewing Departments and Planning Commission for approval. The
     Zoning Administrator may require any sign be reviewed and approved by the Reviewing Departments and Planning
     Commission prior to issuance of a sign permit.

     Section 23.090. Regulations for Permanent Signs. (Amended 03/31/20)
         A. Awning and Canopy Signs. Signs painted, printed, or sewn on the surface of awning material or on
            canopies shall be allowed provided:

          i. awnings are placed at street level only;

         ii. sign copy on a canopy does not exceed 15% of the canopy face;

         iii. all illumination and lighting is shielded and directed toward the ground; and

         iv. the sign area is calculated as part of the allowable building wall sign area.




         B. Civic Institutional Signs. On-premises wall signs, monument signs, and pylons owned by civic institutions
            shall be allowed as set forth in this chapter. Pylon sign design shall be approved by the Planning


                                                                23-8
         8.   No part of any wall sign or sign structure shall project above or below the highest or lowest part of the
              wall upon which the sign is mounted or painted, neither shall it project more than 18 inches from the
              face of the building to which it is attached.




     K. Wayfinding Signs. Wayfinding signs providing direction, defining entrances or exits, identifying parking
        areas, or limiting access shall be allowed provided:

         1.   they shall not exceed four square feet in area and four feet in height, except that wayfinding signs for
              multi-tenant projects may be up to six square feet in area; and

         2.   the maximum number allowed shall be two per entrance from a public street.




Section 23.100. Temporary Signs. (Amended 09/10/19)
     A. Temporary Signs. On-premises tTemporary signs, including special event signs, in the form of posters,
         balloons, banners, blade signs, building wraps, A-frame signs, cardboard or plastic signs fastened to wires
         or stakes, and inflatable displays shall be allowed provided:

         1.   a sign permit is first acquired;

         1.2. signs shall be placed entirely upon private property with the written permission of the owner.

         3.   unless otherwise provided in this chapter, temporary signs shall not be displayed for more than 30 days
              at any one time or for more than 90 days during a calendar year, except building wraps may be               Formatted: Indent: Left: 1.5", No bullets or numbering
              displayed for up to one year provided they are in kept in good condition and are not faded;
                                                                                                                          Formatted: Numbered + Level: 6 + Numbering Style: 1,
                                                                                                                          2, 3, … + Start at: 1 + Alignment: Left + Aligned at: 1.5"
         4. temporary event signs shall be removed by the applicant within 48 hours of the conclusion of the event;
                                                                                                                          + Indent at: 1.5"
                                                           23-16
                                                                                                                        Formatted: Font: 10 pt
    4.   temporary signs shall not be placed in the public right-of-way or in a clear view area. If a temporary
                                                                                                                        Formatted: No bullets or numbering
         sign is located on public property or in the road right-of-way (including the park strip), impacts line of
         sight for safe vehicular travel, poses an immediate hazard, or does not have a permit, the sign may be
         removed immediately by Lehi City.

    2.   temporary signs shall not be placed in the public right-of-way, a required parking space, a driveway, a
         clear view area, or so as to obstruct distinctive architectural features, windows, doors, or points of
         access;

    3.5. changeable copy or an electronic display sign are not allowed; and

    4.6. balloon and blade signs shall be set back a distance equal to or greater than the height of the sign from
         all rights-of-way, lot lines, and overhead utility lines, shall not be more than 20 feet in height, shall be
         spaced no closer than 25 feet to other signs, and shall have no more than five such signs per frontage.

B. Temporary on-premises freestanding signs over eight square feet shall be allowed for new construction
   provided a sign permit is first acquired. Such signs shall be set back a minimum of five feet from all
   rights-of-way, lot lines, and public utility easements and shall not be placed in any clear view area.
   Temporary freestanding signs shall not exceed 16 feet in height and 96 square feet of sign copy per side if
   double faced. For projects two acres and larger in size, additional signage may be allowed with an
   additional 32 square feet of signage for each acre over two acres up to a maximum size of 192 square feet.
   Only one sign shall be permitted per street entry into any development. Individual phases of a subdivision
   shall not be considered separate subdivisions for the purpose of allowing additional signage. Signs shall be
   removed by the developer or property owner within fifteen business days upon sale of the last lot or unit for
   residential development or final occupancy of a commercial development, with a maximum display period
   not to exceed two years. The Zoning Administrator or designee may grant an extension if 50 percent of the
   lots have not been sold at the end of the two-year period or if a commercial project is still actively under
   construction.

C. Temporary sidewalk signs are allowed in the Historic District provided there remains five feet of
   unobstructed hard-surfaced passageway around the sign. Such signs may be A-frame or T-frame in design.
   Only one sidewalk sign is allowed per business and shall not exceed four feet in height nor eight square feet
   per sign face. Sidewalk signs shall not be placed in any landscaping area.

D. Temporary Off-Premises Signs for Projects. Temporary off-premises signs owned by residential
   subdivisions under development may be allowed subject to the following:

    1.   A maximum of two temporary signs shall be allowed per development project.

    2.   Signs shall be limited to 32 square feet in total area, 16 square feet per side, and 12 feet in height.

    3.   Signs shall be placed entirely upon private property with the written permission of the owner.

    4.   Signs shall not encroach upon any public right-of-way, shall not be located over a public utility
         easement, and may not be located within the 35-foot clear view area on corners except where they are
         not more than three feet in height.

    5.   Signs shall be designed as ladder-type signs following a uniform design theme.




                                                       23-17
