                       SKYE PLAT B PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant      DR Horton
                           Meeting Date       April 11, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose      Public hearing, review, and recommendation for a proposed preliminary
                                              subdivision
                           Decision Type      Administrative
                                Location      Approximately Levengrove Drive and DR Horton Boulevard
       Existing General Plan Designation      High Density Residential (HDR) and Medium Density Residential
                                              (MDR)
                        Existing Zoning       Planned Community
                     Existing Land Use        Undeveloped
                   Number of Lots/Units       61 Single Family and 271 Townhome Units
          Adjacent Zoning and Land Use           North PC                     Undeveloped (Low Density)
                                                 South PC                     Undeveloped (High Density, buffer)
                                                  East T/M                    Buffer for Texas Instruments
                                                  West PC                     Undeveloped (Clubhouse)
                      Date of DRC Review      March 27, 2024
                        Assigned Planner      Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission       Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                            City Council      Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has
been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.

Section 37.040. Connectivity Standards.

    1. Maximum Block Lengths. Maximum block lengths allowed shall be required based on the project density as
    identified on the following table of maximum block lengths:

                   Density                                          Block Length
                0-2.5 DU/AC                         1,000 ft. street and pedestrian block length
                2.6-4 DU/AC                          800 ft. street and pedestrian block length
                4.1-6 DU/AC                          600 ft. street and pedestrian block length
                6.1+ DU/AC                600 ft. street block length and 400 ft. pedestrian block length

         a.   Increase in Block Length. The maximum allowed block length may be increased if the applicant provides
              clear and convincing evidence that it is impracticable to achieve due to:

              i. road grades that exceed ten percent;

              ii. Jordan River;




Skye Plat B Preliminary Subdivision
             iii. Utah Lake;

             iv. delineated wetlands;

             v. other significant natural and historic features such as Dry Creek or the Waste Ditch drainage channel;

             vi. existing adjacent development;

            vii. rail corridors; or

           viii. limited access roadways.

A. Pedestrian Connectivity Standards. All residential and non-residential developments and subdivisions shall meet the
following standards:

    1. Pedestrian connections shall be utilized to connect proposed developments to master planned trails and adjacent
    existing or future developments where applicable. Connections shall be of a hard surface with a minimum width of
    ten feet including landscaped shoulders on each side of at least five feet in width. Trail access spacing shall not exceed
    600 feet.

    2. Sidewalks and trails shall interconnect all units, buildings, and streets within a development, and shall provide
    connectivity to existing adjacent development or future development areas.



  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 21, 1995              Part of the property came into Lehi City as part of the Micron Annexation

May 27, 1999               Part of the property came into Lehi City as part of the Low Hills Annexation

December 11, 2012          City Council approved the Micron Area Plan

August 23, 2022            City Council approved the Skye Area Plan amending the Micron Area Plan

September 19, 2023         City Council approved the Skye Area Plan Second Amendment


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of the proposed Skye Plat B Preliminary Subdivision including
61 single family lots and 271 townhome units located at approximately Levengrove Drive and DR Horton Boulevard.
The proposed subdivision meets the requirements of the Area Plan and the Development Code. Both the HD4 and
HD3 areas have less then the minimum lots shown in the Area Plan table. This has happened with other area plans
and does not cause concern as long as it does not exceed the maximum.

The proposed subdivision includes public streets besides Orkney Drive as a private street. The parking proximity
requirement is met for all of the units and a trail connects this area to the clubhouse and future phases.

Staff recommended that the applicant look into more pedestrian connections to meet the connectivity to master
planned trails requirement as well as reduce the pedestrian block length as required by the connectivity standards.
All of the roads in this subdivision do not meet the connectivity requirements. However, significant grade exists in




Skye Plat B Preliminary Subdivision
this area requiring retaining walls and making pedestrian connections complicated. The applicant did indicate they
will look into adding more connections with the final subdivisions. The Planning Commission should consider
whether an exception to the block length and trail connections should be granted based on grade. The grade does
exceed the ten percent slope listed as a reason the Planning Commission may grant an exception.

Another DRC comment requested the elevations for the townhomes to ensure they meet the design requirements of
the Area Plan and the Development Code. The applicant indicated that the architect has not finished the elevations
at this time. Full review of the elevations will take place with the final subdivision.

The DRC had 13 redline comments including:
1. There is a parking lot here on the previous phase. We need to make sure there is a proper pedestrian crossing for the
    trail on both sides.
2. Smooth out sidewalk transitions around off-street parking
3. Please provide sample elevations of the front and rear load townhome units.
4. If all these units are rear-load, then shouldn't they have sidewalks connecting to all the front doors? The way it is
    designed now, the sidewalks are located along all of what should be alleys to the garages of the rear-load units. I
    believe according to the area plan the park strip can only be removed along frontages of front-load units. Almost
    this entire phase eliminates park strips, but much of it has rear-load towns and single family. Suggestions to add
    sidewalks/trail connections shown in yellow and to take out in red in Bluebeam.
5. How will this trail be accessed? Our typical requirement is to have a 10' wide trail access at least every 600' to a
    master planned trail. The density here also requires a max pedestrian block length of 400'. I know we are dealing
    with grade here which can allow some exception, but currently the only access is at each end where it connects to
    the streets. It seems there are at least two or three locations access could be provided to this trail.

Please consider including all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Subdivisions are an administrative item. This means if they meet the Code requirements the Planning Commission
and City Council must approve them. The applicant does request an exception based on grade which the Planning
Commission may grant or deny. Whatever motion they make must include findings or reasons.

Residents can give comments on this item. However, they should realize that the Planning Commission may only
require things that are in the Code. Residents can bring up concerns and solutions recognizing that the applicant can
choose to implement or not implement the feedback.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed preliminary subdivision.
Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:


    1.   The proposed subdivision has significant grade that justifies an exception to the connectivity standards./
         The grade of the proposed subdivision does not justify an exception to the connectivity standards.
    2.   The proposed subdivision meets the requirements of the Skye Area Plan.
    3.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
         gards to subdivision approvals.
    4.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Skye Plat B Preliminary Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 27, 2024

                                                     Skye Plat B Preliminary
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

DR Horton- requests review of Skye Plat B Preliminary including 61 single family and 271 townhome units located at
Levengrove Drive and DR Horton Boulevard.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Jeff Stephenson and Ben Tuckett
Date of Plans Reviewed: 3/19/2024
Time Start: 3:09pm
Time End: 3:37pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. The required circuit 8-12 crossing must be in place Prior to precon
2. Add a sheet with the over-all site and various plats and phases (Suggest ‘Unit Count DWG.’)
3. Add/Show PUE at non-single family lots in plan view.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
4. Provide size for proposed storm drain stub. Is this to gather drainage from the wall and or from the common space
    behind the units?
5. Did we install a 20" culinary main with prelim A to connect to?
6. Provide an overall utility map showing all phases to help Public Works track location of all PRV vaults, and over-
    sized water/PI mains
7. 20" culinary main will require a 6" temp blow off on stub for future.
8. This 20" culinary main and 12" PI main is the feed from the new Low Hills Booster Station?
James – Parks:
 9. There is a parking lot here on the previous phase. We need to make sure there is a proper pedestrian crossing for the
     trail on both sides.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning:
10. Smooth out sidewalk transitions around off-street parking
11. Please provide sample elevations of the front and rear load townhome units.
12. If all these units are rear-load, then shouldn't they have sidewalks connecting to all the front doors? The way it is
    designed now, the sidewalks are located along all of what should be alleys to the garages of the rear-load units. I
    believe according to the area plan the park strip can only be removed along frontages of front-load units. Almost this
    entire phase eliminates park strips, but much of it has rear-load towns and single family. Suggestions to add
    sidewalks/trail connections shown in yellow and to take out in red in Bluebeam.
13. How will this trail be accessed? Our typical requirement is to have a 10' wide trail access at least every 600' to a master
    planned trail. The density here also requires a max pedestrian block length of 400'. I know we are dealing with grade
    here which can allow some exception, but currently the only access is at each end where it connects to the streets. It
    seems there are at least two or three locations access could be provided to this trail.


PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)
PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
2. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
   must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 27, 2024

3.  Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
    process.
4. Provide a title report to be reviewed by Staff.
5. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
6. Provide signed easement verification sheet.
7. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
    Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com).
8. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
9. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
    Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
    agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
10. Provide approval letter from the State (UDEQ) for Class V UIC Injection Well.
11. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
12. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
13. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
14. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
14. 20" culinary main will require 6" blow offs at less than 1000' intervals.
15. The HD4 and HD5 pods are under the minimum density indicated in the area plan, this does not create concern for
    staff.
1. Add a sheet with the over-all site and various plats and phases (Suggest ‘Unit Count DWG.’)
2. Add PUE at non-single family lots in plan view
3. At the time of final platting, make sure that the “proposed storm drain stubs” are designed to be able to accommodate
    both the drainage at the top of the wall and the drain at the toe of the wall (typ.)
4. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
    on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
    the building permit.
15. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
16. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
17. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
    off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
    made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
    sheet.
18. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
    and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
19. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
20. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
    being granted.
21. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
    by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
22. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
    be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
    provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
    loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
    construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 27, 2024


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 11, 2024




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                3 of 3
