                 GRANDEUR ESTATES PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                Applicant       Andy Welch
                            Meeting Date        April 11, 2024
                 Requested Action/Purpose       Public hearing, review, and recommendation for a proposed preliminary
                                                subdivision
                           Decision Type        Administrative
                                Location        Approximately 1650 South Center Street
       Existing General Plan Designation        VLDRA
                         Existing Zoning        R-1-22
                      Existing Land Use         Undeveloped
                   Number of Lots/Units         9 lots
          Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North R-1-22                 Monument Park Subdivision
                                                   South N/A                    Single family residential
                                                    East N/A                    Undeveloped
                                                    West R-1-22                 Anthem Country Lane Estates Subdi-
                                                                                vision
                      Date of DRC Review        March 27, 2024
                        Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                             City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code, in-
cluding review by the Reviewing Departments, and review and approval by the Planning Commission following a
public hearing.

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has
been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

April 26, 2022     The property was annexed into Lehi City with the Kiene Addition.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting review and recommendation of the Grandeur Estates Preliminary Subdivision, a 9-lot
residential subdivision located at approximately 1650 South Center Street.

The preliminary subdivision plan will consist of nine single family lots on a total of five acres. The lots range in size




Grandeur Estates Preliminary Subdivision
from 18,207 to 22,085 square feet. There is an overall density of 1.8 units per acre for this subdivision which slightly
exceeds the standard R-1-22 zoning allowance of 1.75 units per acre.

This subdivision varies from the typical standards set forth in Chapter 5 of the Lehi City Development Code because
one lot of bonus density and flexibility on lot size and frontage was added in lieu of reimbursement for road widening
of Center Street. This variation from the standard subdivision requirements was made after coordination occurred
between the applicant and the Engineering and Planning Departments. Seven of the lots do not meet the 22,000
square foot lot size requirement and a few of them do not meet the 100-foot frontage requirement. However, Staff
feels comfortable with the flexibility given as part of the improvements. The City Council will make the final deter-
mination on approval of this subdivision due to the density in lieu of reimbursement request.

The proposed subdivision shows a road stub to the south to provide for future connectivity Access to the subdivision
is currently provided on Center Street.

The DRC had eight comments on the proposed preliminary subdivision plan, including the following:

1. Double fronting lots (#1, 2, 3) require fencing. Recommend installing a matching fence for lot #9. It may make
sense to match the existing concrete fence on Center Street just North of this site. Please see "Design Standards & Pub-
lic Improvements specifications (section 2.06)" for additional details. Suggest installing a concrete fence with mow
strip, etc.
2. Show a transition from the existing Center Street Sidewalk to the newer 7' planter/5' sidewalk section - Site Plan
3. Add a note on the preliminary plat explaining the one lot of additional density and flexibility on lot size and front-
age is being granted in lieu of widening of Center Street. Include on this note what the base density is and the number of
additional lot(s).

Please consider all DRC comments as part of the motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Standard subdivisions require administrative approval, meaning if they meet the Development Code and Design
Standard requirements they must be approved. The Planning Commission reviews to make sure they meet the intent
and requirements of the Code.

Because of the design considerations as part of the in lieu of reimbursement request, the City Council will review
this preliminary subdivision request.

This is a public hearing item. Comments related to Code requirements or any potential negative impact to existing
or future residents can help the Planning Commission in their review of this project.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed preliminary subdivision.
Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
         gards to subdivision approvals.
    2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Grandeur Estates Preliminary Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 27, 2024

                                                       Grandeur Estates
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Andy Welch- requests preliminary subdivision review of Grandeur Estates, an 9-lot residential subdivision located at
approximately 1650 South Center Street.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Matt Meier, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Ross
    Dinsdale, Trent Dyer, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Paul Watson, Andy Welch
Date of Plans Reviewed: 3/15/2024
Time Start: 1:23 pm
Time End: 1:51 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
1. Dual utility outside of the City ROW will require a 30' easement. (Preliminary comment)
James – Parks:
2. Double fronting lots (#1, 2, 3) require fencing. Recommend installing a matching fence for lot #9. It may make sense
to match the existing concrete fence on Center Street just North of this site. Please see "Design Standards & Public
Improvements specifications (section 2.06)" for additional details.
Suggest installing a concrete fence with mow strip, etc.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering:
3. This development will require onsite detention (including the Center Street Pavement) unless a "Payment in Lieu of
Detention" or "Piping in Lieu of Detention" agreement can be worked-out
4. The 10' PUE called-out on the Preliminary plat should be a 10' Public Utility and Roadway Construction Easement.
Please label to read "10' PU&RCE" - Preliminary Plat
5. The Preliminary Plans should include a typical cross section for the interior subdivision roads as well as Center Street
6. Show a transition from the existing Center Street Sidewalk to the newer 7' planter/5' sidewalk section - Site Plan
Kim – Planning:
7.       Add a note on the preliminary plat explaining the one lot of additional density and flexibility on lot size and
frontage is being granted in lieu of widening of Center Street. Include on this note what the base density is and the number
of additional lot(s).
8.       Show ADA ramps on the street corners at Center Street.

General Comments
1. Coordinate with Planning on addresses and street numbering. This should be a numbered road. 70 W and 1630 S
2. SWPPP prior to pre-con.
3. Add note that 80% is infeasible
4. For Readability, add additional detail sheets so that no more than two standard Lehi City and APWA details are shown
    per page (Typ all sheets).


Comments for Final Subdivision:
1. Line extension required.
2. Change line work to match labels on SD structures. Combo box will be required on the East side of the road to
   accommodate dual pipe connection. West side of the road can remain a curb inlet.
3. Plug at diversion structure on East side of the road.
4. Change 45 degree bends to 90's on both mains



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 27, 2024

5.  Adjust the elevation of your proposed storm drain to eliminate loops on water mains. These label here are showing
    incorrect water/PI main sizes.
6. Remove water/PI mainline loop notes, your storm drain is so shallow you will not be looping either of these mainlines.
7. Lehi irrigation company needs to approve tie into ditch.
8. Connection to TSSD sewer MH will need there approval
9. Locate fire hydrant between lot 1 and 2 on property line. provide valve flanged to tee. fire hydrants are connected to PI
    main not culinary main. change on plans.
10. Provide utility notes on plans. All utility trenches will require to be backfilled in a Ashto designation A-1a, All water
    line fittings must be mega lug or approved equal.
11. 84 ' temp turn around needs to be moved north so it does not interfere with hooded grates on storm drain boxes.
12. Provide street cross section on planset. with CBR rating.
13. Loops on the culinary and PI mains need to be flanged ductile loops. Call out on plan set.
14. call out on plans that the last 80 feet of 6'' culinary main and 8'' pi main. will require Bell restraints.
15. loops on water mains will require ductile flange fittings.
16. Show tie-in on plan set connecting to existing sidewalk.
17. Vertical Curves within the subdivision should be designed with a minimum "K" value of 20 for Crest Curves and 30
    for Sag Curves
18. Note: @ 2% Cross Slope, this elevation calculates to be 4504.36, not 4504.20
19. Show saw-cut line for existing pavement along Center Street
20. Show actual cross-slope grades from existing edge of pavement to proposed lip of gutter. These grades must be kept
    between 1% & 4% - Sheet PP2
21. Change linetypes for all proposed utilities to a "solid" linetype to avoid confusion between existing and proposed
    utilities (Typ. all sheets) - Sheet PP2
22. Change the "Install 12' Gravel Access Road" c all out to read "Install 12' wide All Weather Access"


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 11, 2024.
BECAUSE OF THE DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS IN LIEU OF PAYMENT THIS WILL ALSO GO TO CITY
COUNCIL FOR FINAL APPROVAL.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
Lehi City Staff and Commissioners;


In July of 2022, I filed and completed an application to annex parcel 13:035:0062 into Lehi City
under the R-1-22 zone; allowing for .5-acre single-family lots. In April of 2023, a Preliminary
Application was submitted. We have been through multiple DRC meetings with the staff
reviewing different concepts to best utilize engineering design and code requirements.


The first concept plan submitted for DRC was the plan below:




The plan met the current code and zoning requirements, but due to utility connections, staff
asked that we flip the road to the south property line. See the concept plan below:
Once of the challenges to the above concept was the connectivity requirement of the code;
making the development connect to adjacent property owners. All but one side was developed,
forcing the connectivity to the property to the south.


Placing a road on the south property line would require a retaining wall. Even though the road
does not officially go onto the neighbor’s property, constructing that road would be disruptive.
The neighbor currently farms on the land. They have animals and those livestock are contained
by a fence along that property line. The neighbor also runs a Farmers Market every weekend.


Knowing this would be a challenging request, I began working closely with the neighbor. I
offered to purchase the land above market value. I offered to joint-venture on the development
project. After more than 18 months of sit-down visits, text messages, and other forms of
communication, the neighbors’ legal and real estate team asked me to no longer reach out and
that they were not interested to develop the property.


After all that effort, I presented to the staff an option that would meet all city code and standard
except it did not connect to any adjacent parcels.




After review of the concept plan above, staff stated that they would not support the plan.
After 2 years of back and forth with staff and neighbors, we (developer and staff) held a meeting
to find a plan that would work. We landed on the proposed plan below. The development will
connect to the neighbor’s property for connection to future development. We are proposing a
utilities easement along the south property line, granting access to public works for future
maintenance.
The above plan is what one accomplishes when staff and developers work together to find the
best solution for both parties.
I hope that you will see the efforts made by all to find a plan that is best for Lehi City. With large
lots and beautiful views, I believe this subdivision will be desired by many who plan to raise
families in the community of Lehi City.


Thank you,


Andy Welch
Grandeur Development
801-680-2030
