                              GRANT’S CORNER ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant         Tyson Fox
                                Meeting Date          April 11, 2024
                     Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                      change
                              Decision Type           Legislative
                                   Location           90 North 500 West
                                    Acreage           1.4 Acres
                            Existing Zoning           RA-1 (Residential Agriculture)
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           Mixed Use
               Proposed Zoning Designation            MU (Mixed Use)
                          Existing Land Use           Single Family Residential
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North PF                  Lehi Rodeo Grounds
                                                       South MU                 K&S Auto and Tire
                                                        East RA-1               Empty Lot/ Rodeo Parking
                                                        West RA-1               Single Family Residential
                            Date of DRC Review        March 27, 2024
                              Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                  City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

MIXED USE (MU)

The Mixed Use (MU) classification combines a number of land uses within a specific geographic area. These uses may




Grant’s Corner Zone Change
include higher density residential and may also serve as destinations or corridors of activity. They may build on the
existing fabric, such as along State Street or Main Street, or may occur as new nodes of activity. This classification may
contain a mix of uses including office, higher education, high density housing, specialty retail, restaurants, public facili-
ties, sporting venues, and cultural spaces. Maintaining a substantial residential population within these areas is critical
to their long-term success. Ensuring that the area is populated in the evenings and on weekends will support a lively,
active, and vibrant center.


     PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872- The property was annexed with the original Lehi City boundary.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change of 1.4 acres located at 90 N 500 W
from RA-1 to MU (Mixed Use). This zone change is consistent with the general plan designation for the property of
MU and the zoning of surrounding properties.

A concept plan was submitted in conjunction with the zone change which includes warehouse and office space. The
proposed concept would require a development agreement between the developer and the City Council.

There were three DRC redline comments on the proposal, including:

1.    Prior to recording the zone change, water dedication will be required.

Please consider all DRC comments in your decision


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative decisions. However, zone changes to meet the General Plan must be approved unless
strong reasons are provided for the detriment that the zone change would cause to the City. The Public can comment on
zone changes but should understand that this proposed zone change meets the General Plan so significant reasons would
need to be provided to deny the proposed zone change.

The concurrently submitted concept allows for additional discretion by the City Council because it is only allowed
through a development agreement.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
      2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
      3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
           properties;
      4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
           the General Plan;
      5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
           for nearby and adjoining properties;




Grant’s Corner Zone Change
   6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Grant’s Corner Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 27, 2024

                                                  Grant’s Corner Zone Change
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Tyson Fox- requests review of the Grant’s Corner Zone Change, changing the zoning from RA-1 to MU on 1.4 acres
located at 90 North 500 West.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, Trent Dyer
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Tyson Fox
Date of Plans Reviewed: 3/19/2024
Time Start: 2:06 pm
Time End: 2:08 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Update the narrative. The current zoning is residential RA-1 and the General Plan is Commercial. You are asking for a
    zone change to MU.
2. Include legal description and highlight this area of the zone change darker.
3. Prior to recording the zone change, water dedication will be required.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 11, 2024




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
1
A. We plan to build an office/flex space/retail building.

B. We understand that the general plan calls for this property to fall under the mixed-use zone.
However, we feel that a building under the mixed-use zone would not perform as well compared
to what we have planned.

C. Next door to this property, we have a similar style building as what we are hoping to build.
We are in the final stages on the other project which is one block north of this property. The
design of this future building is based on our current project.

D. We will be matching zoning to the properties directly across 500 W from our current project (
according to the general plan). As such, we do not feel that this zone change would negatively
affect adjacent properties or their uses in the future.

E. By approving this zone change, it will allow us to construct this building and attract local small
businesses that are currently operating out of a home office, storing work vehicles/trailers at
their homes, etc. We’ve spoken with many small businesses and have been told that the
majority of commercial spaces that are currently for lease are much larger in size than what we
will be offering, which places the price-point far out of reach of smaller businesses. This forces
them to operate out of a home office or yard etc. In addition, our current project has garnered a
lot of interest by small businesses who are interested in leasing space. We feel that this type of
building would fill and lease out quickly.
