                                   GRANT’S CORNER CONCEPT
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant         Tyson Fox
                         Meeting Date          April 11, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose          Review and consideration of a concept plan
                        Decision Type          Administrative
                              Location         90 North 500 West
                          Project Area         1.4 acres
                       Existing Zoning         RA-1 (Proposed MU)
     General Plan Land Use Designation         Mixed Use
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use              North PF              Lehi Rodeo Grounds
                                                  South MU              K&S Auto and Tire
                                                   East RA-1            Empty Lot/ Rodeo Parking
                                                   West RA-1            Single Family Residential
                     Date of DRC Review        March 27, 2024
                       Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                            City Council       Final Approval


     APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of the Grant’s Corner Concept Plan located at 90 North 500 West.
The proposed use is for a warehouse/office/retail building on the 1.4-acre lot. The purpose of this concept application is
to provide additional details for the Planning Commission and City Council to consider in a Development Agreement.
They concurrently submitted a zone change to bring the zoning into conformity with the General Plan designation of
mixed-use, but the desired use they proposed is not allowed in the mixed-use zone.

The proposed building is 18,614 square feet and includes 49 parking stalls, which appears to meet the parking
requirements for the proposed uses. The building is divided into six warehouse/office spaces and four retail spaces that
face towards 500 West.

The proposed building elevations show glass, brick, and CMU block. Decorative lighting is shown as well. The
building will need to meet the architectural requirements in Chapter 37 of the Development Code as this property falls
under the Historic District Design Standards.

DRC Comments
The DRC had 25 redline comments, many of which were informational to the applicant. Some of note include:

1.    The site will require at minimum, 10% landscaping per acre. Please provide site acreage tabulation legend.



Grant’s Corner Concept Plan
2.    The existing 500 West and 100 North improvements (curb / gutter / sidewalk, etc.) should be shown on this site
      plan.
3.    Full 100 North Improvements (Pavement widening, curb, gutter, sidewalk, etc.) will be required along 100 North.
      These improvements should be shown on the site plan.
4.    The additional traffic to the existing access location on 500 W creates a potential safety issue. It would be better to
      access the site from 100 N rather than 500 W.
5.    A traffic impact study would be required if this were to move past concept. A TIS - Level 3 would be required per
      the Lehi City Design Standard. Analyses of existing conditions, opening day, and +5 years would be required. It
      should include Main St @ 500 W, 100 N @ 500 W, 300 N @ 500 W, and all project driveways.
6.    Office/Warehouse is not an allowed use in the Mixed Use zone.
7.    Buildings located on corner lots shall be a minimum of two stories in height.
8.    The building must be located to the street with no parking between the building and sidewalk. The concept as
      proposed does not fit into the vision for downtown Lehi for a vibrant, walkable, mixed-use district. Meeting the
      building orientation standards can help to uphold the vision for the area.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Concept plans are administrative items. If they meet the Development Code requirements they must be approved. The
Planning Commission reviews it to ensure that it conforms to the requirements of the Development Code. However, this
application is contingent upon approval of a zone change and the consideration of a Development Agreement.

The need for a development agreement with the City Council gives the Planning Commission and City Council
discretion to decide whether to approve or deny the project.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may recommend approval or approval with Code required changes the proposed concept.
Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
      2. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
      3. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Grant’s Corner Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 27, 2024

                                                     Grant’s Corner Concept
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Tyson Fox- requests review of the Grant’s Corner Concept, a commercial building located on 1.4-acres at 90 North 500
West.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Tyson Fox, Brent Fox
Date of Plans Reviewed: 3/19/2024
Time Start: 2:10 pm
Time End: 2:35 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Include PUE at all road frontages.
Garion – Fire:
2. Please include adjacent sites or site access to the Site Plan.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
3. 8'' sewer main, 6'' PI main, 2'' culinary main. 100 north.
4. 8'' sewer main, 12'' PI main, 8'' culinary main. 500 west.
5. All existing sewer, water, and PI service connections to must be eliminated at the mainline connection per Lehi City
    standards. New appropriately sized service connections will be installed in correct locations with the site plan for new
    building.
6. Culinary service and interior fire sprinklers for new building must connect to water main in 500 West.
James – Parks:
7. A landscaping and irrigation plan are required.
8. As per the development code, the maximum number of consecutive parking stalls without a landscape island is 24.
    Please add at least one landscaped parking island.
9. The site will require at minimum, 10% landscaping per acre. Please provide site acreage tabulation legend.
Gary – Building/Inspections:
10. A soil report will be required if this moves past concept.
Shelbey – Public Works:
11. FYI, this will require a SSOMP for any private storm drain prior to precon
12. A SWPPP will be required prior to precon
13. 80% storm will need to be retained on-site
Brad – Engineering:
14. The existing 500 West and 100 North improvements (curb / gutter / sidewalk, etc.) should be shown on this site plan.
15. The proposed Lehi City improvements near the Rodeo Grounds should be shown on the Site plan so that adequate
    dimensions can be determined.
16. Full 100 North Improvements (Pavement widening, curb, gutter, sidewalk, etc.) will be required along 100 North.
    These improvements should be shown on the site plan.
Luke- Traffic:
17. The additional traffic to the existing access location on 500 W creates a potential safety issue. It would be better to
    access the site from 100 N rather than 500 W.
18. A traffic impact study would be required if this were to move past concept. A TIS - Level 3 would be required per the
    Lehi City Design Standard. Analyses of existing conditions, opening day, and +5 years would be required. It should
    include Main St @ 500 W, 100 N @ 500 W, 300 N @ 500 W, and all project driveways.
19. A Diagnostic Team Review may be required if this moves past concept due to the proximity of the Main St railroad
    crossing per Utah Rule R930-5-7 which states, "Prior to approving new residential, commercial, or industrial
    development within 1000 feet of a Crossing, the Highway Authority [Lehi City] shall request a Diagnostic Team
    review to assess the potential traffic impacts at the Crossing."
Kim – Planning:


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 27, 2024

20. Office/Warehouse is not an allowed use in the Mixed Use zone.
21. Buildings located on corner lots shall be a minimum of two stories in height.
22. Consider adding some variety to the north side building elevation. For example, add some other exterior material types
    or colors, or incorporate changes the height and/or width of a few of the storefront pop-outs, etc.
23. The building must be located to the street with no parking between the building and sidewalk. The concept as proposed
    does not fit into the vision for downtown Lehi for a vibrant, walkable, mixed-use district. Meeting the building
    orientation standards can help to uphold the vision for the area.
24. If the other departments are ok with it, perhaps angled on-street parking could be utilized along 100 N to allow the
    building to front to the street.
25. The building will need to meet the architectural requirements in Chapter 37 of the Development Code. This property
    falls under the Historic District Design Standards and must meet the requirements of 37.010(B)(1). This includes a
    minimum glass requirement of 40% for both street frontages. The west facade looks good, but the north facade may
    need more windows.



DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 11, 2024.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
