                                  WIGGY WASH CONCEPT PLAN
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant        Mammoth Holdings LLC
                          Meeting Date         April 25th, 2024
              Requested Action/Purpose         Review and approval
                         Decision Type         Administrative
                               Location        76 South 2300 West
                           Project Area        3.26
                        Existing Zoning        Commercial
      General Plan Land Use Designation        Commercial
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North R-2         Single-family residential
                                                  South R-2         Single-family residential
                                                   East PC          7-eleven
                                                   West A-5         Agriculture
                      Date of DRC Review       April 3rd, 2024
                        Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission       Review and approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.

Section 37.010. Urban Village District Design Standards.
Site design standards:
     i. Building orientation:
              a. Buildings shall be oriented to the adjacent public or private street with no off-street parking or
                  drive aisles located between the building and the street sidewalk.

    ii.  Pedestrian circulation:
             a. Sidewalk connections shall interconnect the building entrance, public and private street sidewalks,
                  parking areas, master planned trails, and adjacent properties.
             b. Sidewalks shall be a minimum five feet in width and may be constructed of concrete, brick pavers,
                  or other material as approved by the City Engineer.
             c. Pedestrian walkways shall include ramps and crosswalks where they cross streets, internal roads,
                  drive aisles, and parking areas. Crosswalks shall be painted or delineated with brick pavers,
                  stamped and colored asphalt, or stamped and colored concrete.
             d. Raised central median strips, bulb-outs and other traffic calming elements may be required by the
                  City Engineer based on recommendations from a licensed traffic engineer.
    iii. Setbacks:
             a. Buildings shall provide a sufficient setback to allow for a public utility easement to be
                  placed along the frontage of the property. Public utility easements may be placed along
                  the back side of a proposed building as approved by the Reviewing Departments. No
                  permanent structures shall be allowed within the public utility easement. Additional
                  setbacks from public utility easements may be required by the Reviewing Departments to



Wiggy Wash Concept Plan
                   ensure proper clearances are met from building footings to utility lines.
              b.   The maximum setback for buildings shall be 25 feet as measured from the property line.
              c.   The maximum setback may be increased to accommodate existing mainline utilities, grade
                   changes over 20 percent, existing buildings, or other hardship that is not self-imposed to
                   the property.

Architectural Standards:
    i. Street facades:
             a. The façade facing the street frontage shall include large clear glass windows on the street level and
                  smaller windows may be allowed on the upper floors. Opaque, heavily tinted, or reflective glass
                  shall not be used on the first floor of a building facing the street. When glass is tinted, it shall allow
                  for a minimum 60 percent light to pass through the windows into the building.
             b. A minimum of 40 percent of the façade area on the first floor facing the street shall consist of glass.
                  Where a building is located on a corner lot, a minimum of 40 percent of each façade on the first
                  floor shall consist of glass.

    ii.   Architectural features:
              a. Buildings shall have hierarchal massing at building entrances. Building entrances shall include at
                   least one of the following features:
                          i. Roof tower feature;
                         ii. Pitched roof feature;
                       iii. Parapet extensions;
                        iv. Articulations in the façade.
              b. The hierarchal architectural features at building entrances shall also include at least two of the
                   following features:
                          i. Differing exterior material types;
                         ii. Awnings or canopies;
                       iii. Decorative lighting
                        iv. Increase amount of glass such as side or transom windows
              c. Each building façade shall on all sides of the building include at least three of the following
                   features:
                          i. Columns or pilasters;
                         ii. Decorative cornice;
                       iii. Awnings or canopies;
                        iv. Covered walkways;
                         v. Decorative lighting;
                        vi. String course of differing color or material;
                       vii. Wainscot of a minimum 30” in height except for under windows;
                      viii. Balcony;
                        ix. Areas of curtainwall glass; and
                         x. Other comparable architectural features as approved by the Zoning Administrator or
                             Planning Commission.

Exceptions
Exceptions to Section 37.010 may be approved by the Planning Commission provided the following:
    a. The applicant show clear and convincing evidence that the design standards significantly negatively impact
        the ability to conduct the proposed use of the subject property.
    b. The applicant shall provide justification on how the proposed project fits in with the purpose and vision of
        the design standards district in which it is located.
    c. As part of the consideration for an exception, the applicant shall provide an alternative concept plan showing
        how it is not practicable to meet a requirement of Section 37.010.
    d. Exceptions may be granted to allow parking between the building and street, however in the Historic, Roller
        Mills, Urban Village, Mill Pond and Urban Tech Mixed Use Districts, any exception shall be limited to a
        maximum of one module of parking. In all cases where an exception is granted to allow parking between
        the building and the street, an ADA compliant pedestrian access shall be accommodated from the building
        entrance to the street sidewalk.




Wiggy Wash Concept Plan
    e.   Buildings located on corner lots shall only be allowed an exception to the building orientation on one side of
         the building with the other side of the building maintaining no parking between the building and the street
         within the Historic, Roller Mills, Urban Village, Mill Pond, and Urban Tech Mixed Use Districts.



  REPORT ANALYSIS

Mammoth Holdings requests approval of the Wiggy Wash concept plan on 3.26 acres located at approximately 76
South 2300 West. The applicant is requesting exceptions to the Chapter 37 Design Standards to allow for better use
of the site. The property history, requested exception, and DRC comments are discussed below.

Property History
This is the third rendition of a conceptual layout we have seen for this project. The first rendition showed the building
being aligned parallel to Main Street, while the second showed it being aligned perpendicular to Main Street and
placed further west on the site. Previous exceptions have been approved under both concept plan approvals. The first
concept plan requested to allow the drive-alley for the car wash to be between the building and 2300 West. This was
granted by the Planning Commission on January 12, 2023 for the first concept plan layout. The second concept layout
required an exception to have parking between the building and Main Street to allow for stacking of the car wash.
This exception was also granted by the Planning Commission on April 13, 2023. It should be noted that in the DRC
comments a mistake was made when determining when this property had received previous approvals. It was believed
that this project had expired and was outside of the two-year approval window (see comment 7 on the DRC comment
sheet). After DRC it was determined that both concept plans were approved in 2023 and therefore within the two-
year approval window.

Exception
The applicant is requesting the same exceptions to allow parking and drive-aisles between the building and the street
for both Main Street and 2300 West. The applicant is also asking for an exception to the maximum setback of 25 feet
as measured from the building to the property line. According to the applicant, these exceptions will allow for
maximum use of the site for the type of use that is proposed.

DRC
The DRC had 10 comments, many of which were informational to the applicant. Key comments for consideration
include:
1. A traffic impact study will be required if this moves past concept. It will need to include analyses of existing
     conditions and opening day. It should include all project driveways and the intersection of 2300 W @ Main St.
2. There appears to be three wells on the site (see image). They will need to be capped by the developer.
3. Both Main St and 2300 W are Major Arterials. Both driveways may be limited to right-in right-out in the future.
4. Note that a cross access easement will be needed to the west.
5. The property is still in a TH-5 and R-2 Zone and will need to be rezoned to the Commercial Zone to allow this
     use. Water dedication will be needed for the portion that is zoned TH-5.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion, with the exception of comment number 7.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a concept plan for a site plan, this is an administrative review. The review is to ensure it meets the appliable
Development Code requirements.

The applicant is requesting exceptions to the Development Code, which means this is a public hearing item. The
public can make recommendations to the developer with the understanding that the developer does not have to
incorporate any of their feedback that is not required by Code.



  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS


Wiggy Wash Concept Plan
The Planning Commission may approve or deny the proposed concept plan. Any motion should include findings.
Possible findings include:

    1. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
    2. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Wiggy Wash Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 4, 2024

                                                   Wiggy Wash Concept Plan
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Mammoth Holdings- requests review of a new submittal for the Wiggy Wash Concept Plan with exceptions, located at 76
South 2300 West.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Jon Jensen, Brent Wignall, Chris Paulsen
Date of Plans Reviewed: 3/25/2024
Time Start: 1:20 PM
Time End: 1:45 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Provide a 10’ PUE at all road frontages. Off-site easements may be required.
2. Show existing RMP overhead line along Main Street
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
3. 36' sewer main, 10'' culinary main, 12'' pi main 24'' storm drain will need to be extended for outfall for new
    development in 2300 west.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Brad – Engineering: No comments.
Luke- Traffic:
4. A traffic impact study will be required if this moves past concept. It will need to include analyses of existing conditions
    and opening day. It should include all project driveways and the intersection of 2300 W @ Main St.
5. There appears to be three wells on the site (see image). They will need to be capped by the developer.
6. Both Main St and 2300 W are Major Arterials. Both driveways may be limited to right-in right-out in the future.
Kim – Planning:
7. An exception to have parking located between the building and the street was previously approved by the Planning
    Commission on 3/23/22. New approval would be required.
8. Stucco and EIFS may be used up to 30% of each wall area as a secondary material only. The building will need to meet
    the architectural requirements in Chapter 37 of the Development Code. This includes at least 3 architectural wall
    variations on each side of the building.
9. Note that a cross access easement will be needed to the west.
10. The property is still in a TH-5 and R-2 Zone and will need to be rezoned to the Commercial Zone to allow this use.
    Water dedication will be needed for the portion that is zoned TH-5.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).
2. Public works - If this moves past concept, a SWPPP and SSOMP will be required.
3. Public works - At site plan, 80th percentile retention will be required.
4. Planning - Part of the Evans-Winslow Subdivision. Plat amendment application will be required at site plan.
5. Building – Need a copy of the previous soil report at site plan.
6. Power - At site plan show power service location and label with main breaker size on both the site plan and the utility
   plan.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 25TH (PENDING ENVELOPES).


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                                      Wiggy Wash
                          Application for Concept Plan Review
                       Written Description of the Proposed Development


(a) _____ Type of development.

       This is a commercial development for an automatic car wash. This development has
come before the city previously (about a year ago) and we have moved the location of the car
wash to the corner.


(b) _____ Proposed building materials.

       The building is made from a combination of concrete, wood framing, stucco, and metal.


(c) _____ Proposed CC&Rs (if any).

       none


(d) _____ Proposed amenities to be included in the development (landscaping, fencing, trails,
special lighting, design theme etc.).

      This development and building is following our branding and design schematic.
Appropriate landscaping and lighting will be integrated on the site.
