              GILLMAN ACRES PLAT D TWO-LOT SUBDIVISION
                                PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant         Off The Page LLC
                          Meeting Date         April 25th, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose          Approval of a two-lot subdivision
                              Location         606 North 2375 West
                     Existing Land Use         Single-family residential
                       Existing Zoning         R-1-22
     General Plan Land Use Designation         VLDRA
                  Number of Lots/Units         2
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use           North R-1-22                  Single-family residential
                                               South R-1-22                  Single-family residential
                                                 East R-1-22                 Single-family residential
                                                 West R-1-22                 Single-family residential
                     Date of DRC Review        April 10th, 2024
                       Assigned Planner        Katie Bussell

                                           REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission        Final approval


APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

    Section 11.060. Two (2) Lot Subdivision with an Existing Home
    Two (2) Lot Subdivision Criteria. For the purposes of this section a two (2) lot subdivision is defined as a
    subdivision which includes an existing home (at least five (5) years old) and where both lots can meet the criteria
    outlined under the “Urban” category of Table 12-060 and are in compliance with all other development require-
    ments and standards with the following exceptions:
    1. The lot with an existing home shall be exempt from the curb and sidewalk improvements. However, this
         exemption does not apply to a 2 lot subdivision with a flag lot.
    2. Both lots shall be exempt from the Right to Farm mitigation requirements specified in Section 18.030 of
         this Code, including the agricultural no climb fence.
    3. In determining whether connection to the City sewer and water systems are required, the additional 150 feet
         (sewer) in Note 1 and the additional 250 feet (water) in note 3 of Table 12-060 shall not apply for the lot
         with an existing home.


PROPERTY HISTORY

August 23, 2016            Property was included as part of the Gillman Acres Plat C Subdivision.


REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Gillman Acres Plat D Two-Lot Subdivision located 606 North 2375 West in
the R-1-22 zone.

The proposed two-lot subdivision is not a flag lot, as both lots meet the 100-foot frontage requirement of the zone,
as well as the minimum 22,000 square foot lot size. The lot with the existing home is proposed to be 63,934 square
feet and the new lot is 25,825 square feet.
The DRC reviewed the proposed subdivision and had eight redline comments. Many of the comments have to do
with updating information on the plat or construction drawings. Some of the comments include:

1.    Show water and pi services in planter stripe. move water services 5' off of property line so they will not land in
      driveway.
2.    Show proposed road cuts for water services and sewer lateral. Add note to plans road cuts will require 2' tee
      patch.
3.    Owner/developer is Off The Page LLC. Update and remove phone numbers from plat.
4.    Does note 5 on the plat apply?

Please consider including all DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Subdivisions are an administrative item that must be approved if they meet the Code requirements. The proposed
subdivision does meet the requirements. The Planning Commission reviews them to ensure all Code requirements
are met.


POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed two-lot subdivision. Any motion should
include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed two-lot subdivision does/ does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in
      regards to two-lot subdivision approvals.
2.    Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 10, 2024

                                                   Gillman Estates Subdivision
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Brant Frank- requests review of the Gillman Estates two-lot subdivision with existing home located at 606 North 2375
West.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Tony Trane
Date of Plans Reviewed: 3/27/2024
Time Start: 3:40 PM
Time End: 3:45 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
1. Show water and pi services in planter stripe. move water services 5' off of property line so they will not land in
driveway.
2. Add note that the 4'' lateral will be at 2%.
3. Show proposed road cuts for water services and sewer lateral. Add note to plans road cuts will require 2' tee patch.
4. Provide all Lehi City detail sheets for utilities.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary – Building/Inspections:
5. Add note to the plat to mark all property corner.
6. Add note to the plat that there will be no floor slab below native grade.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Brad – Engineering: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
7. Owner/developer is Off The Page LLC. Update and remove phone numbers from plat.
8. Does note 5 on the plat apply?


PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)
PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
2. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
   improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
3. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
   supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
   necessary supplies for the development.
4. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
5. Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).
6. New property line adjacent to existing roads and any new trails must be staked and reviewed by the City.
7. Address any comments or conditions from Planning Commission approval.
8. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Submit a title report to the planner over the project for review.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 10, 2024

4.   Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
     property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.
5.   Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
6.   Provide a signed original copy of the CC&Rs to record with the plat (to be reviewed by City Attorney).
7.   All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEUDLED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 25TH.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
