 INNOVATION PARK PHASE 1 REVISIONS AND PLAT AMENDMENT
                                PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                Applicant      Ivory Innovations
                            Meeting Date       April 25, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose       Approval of a proposed plat amendment and revisions
                                 Location      Approximately 2700 North Ferguson Drive
        Existing General Plan Designation      HDR
                          Existing Zoning      PC
                       Existing Land Use       Townhomes
                    Number of Lots/Units       142
           Adjacent Zoning and Land Use         North Public Facility        UHP driving range
                                                South HDR                    Holbrook Farms Village G
                                                 East HDR                    Holbrook Farms Plat B
                                                 West HDR                    Future Innovation Park Phase 2
                      Date of DRC Review       April 3, 2024 and April 17, 2024
                        Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                            REQUIRED ACTION
                               City Council    Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 37.020. Multi-Family Residential Design Standards
    A. Purpose and Application. This section is intended to create multi-family developments that will establish perma-
        nent neighborhoods, with sustained quality and adequate amenities, and to enhance a sense of community. The
        provisions of this section shall be applied to all new multi-family residential and mixed use developments, unless
        otherwise modified by an approved Area Plan, and for exterior remodels.
    B. Architectural Standards.
             a. Building Materials. The majority of each facade, meaning 51 percent or more of the wall area excluding
                 windows and doors, shall be constructed of brick, stone, architectural textured concrete, fiber cement
                 siding, wood, or other durable building material as approved by the Planning Commission. Stucco,
                 EIFS, or untreated concrete block (CMU) shall be allowed only as an accent or secondary material.
                 Stucco and EIFS shall not be used on hierarchal architectural features, pop-outs in a facade, or for
                 wainscots, but shall be allowed on recessed wall areas, walls between entrances, and between hierarchal
                 architectural features. The Planning Commission may approve metal as an exterior building material
                 and as a primary material on a case-by-case basis if an applicant can show that the type of metal is of a
                 high grade and provides architectural quality to a building. Vinyl siding and standing seam metal are
                 prohibited for use as exterior building materials. Building materials shall coordinate; however, materi-
                 als shall be varied to give diversity and variety to the project. Buildings shall be constructed from
                 differing percentages and combinations of materials.
             b. Balconies and covered porches. Balconies or covered porches at least 50 square feet in size shall be
                 incorporated on some of the units, at least one per building. Balconies or covered porches may be placed
                 on the side or rear of a building. The 50 square feet for covered porches must be in addition to any
                 covered entry area over the front door (see figure 137a).
    C. Exceptions
             a. Exceptions to Section 37.020 may be approved by the Planning Commission provided the following:
                       i. The applicant shall provide evidence that the exception to the design standards improves the
                           design quality, walkability/bike-ability, or ability to conduct the proposed use on the subject
                           property, as determined by the Planning Commission.
Section 11.340. Vacating, Altering, or Amending a Recorded Subdivision Plat. (Amended 07/10/12, 01/23/24)

    A. The Planning Commission, following review by the Reviewing Departments, shall be the Land Use Au-
    thority for approving any proposed vacation, alteration, or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a
    subdivision plat, or any road or lot contained in a subdivision plat. The Planning Commission shall follow all
    requirements and procedures identified in Utah State Code Section 10-9a-608.



  PROPERTY HISTORY

February 22, 2022          Innovation Park received preliminary subdivision approval from Lehi City Council.

June 29, 2022              Innovation Park Phase 1 received final subdivision approval from DRC.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

Ivory Innovations is requesting approval of various revisions to the elevations for Innovation Park, and approval of
a plat amendment for Innovation Park Phase 1. Specifically, the applicant has removed a jog in the party wall
between units of their Tandem Townhome unit design to optimize construction and increase affordability. These
changes then required a plat amendment to remove the jog on the recorded plat, and triggered changes to the archi-
tectural façade. These changes would apply to two buildings in Phase 1 (the two 8-plexes) and 5 in Phase 2. If the
exceptions are approved then the exceptions would also apply to the elevations in Phase 2. The exceptions requested,
the plat amendment, and the DRC comments are expanded upon below.

Exceptions
The applicant is requesting exceptions to the Chapter 37 Multi-Family Design Standards. The applicant has removed
the balconies previously approved for Phase 1 to increase affordability and maximize the square footage of the units.
Chapter 37 requires at least one 50 square foot balcony per building. An exception can be granted if the applicant
shows the exception increases the quality of the design. It would be up to the Planning Commission to determine if
an exception is warranted for this project.

Further, the applicant is also requesting an exception to the stucco requirements of the Chapter 37 Multi-Family
Design Standards. The material percentages were provided after this had been reviewed by the DRC, and it was
found that there was stucco on the pop-out second floor windows. Chapter 37 states that stucco shall not be used on
pop-outs in a façade and shall only be allowed on recessed wall areas. It would be up to the Planning Commission
to determine if this exception would be acceptable as well.

Plat Amendment
A plat amendment was required to remove the jog in the property lines between the units as the plat has already
been recorded. The DRC reviewed the plat amendment after the architectural elevations had already been reviewed
in a separate meeting due to confusion about the revisions submittal process. The DRC had minimal concern over
the plat amendment and only had minor comments pertaining to required updates on the plat.

DRC Comments
Between the two meetings, the DRC had two redline comments for the elevations, and four for the plat amendment.
They are as follows:

Elevations
1. Balconies or covered porches at least 50 square feet in size shall be incorporated on some of the units, at least
one per building. Balconies or covered porches may be placed on the side or rear of the building. An exception will
need to be approved by the Planning Commission.

Plat Amendment:
1. Change White Cliff Drive to Ferguson Drive.
Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Plat amendments are administrative items, meaning if they meet the code they must be approved. The Planning
Commission does have discretion in approving exceptions to the Development Code, however. The Planning Com-
mission should consider if the exceptions being requested here improve the overall design and goals of the devel-
opment.

This is a public hearing item, meaning the public can comment on this item.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed revisions and plat amendment. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed revisions meets/does not meet the requirements of the Development Code.
    2.   The proposed plat amendment meets/does not meet the requirements of the Development Code.
    3.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public meeting.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 17, 2024

                                          Innovation Park Phase 1 Plat Amendment
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Ivory- requests review of the Innovation Park Phase 1 Plat Amendment located at approximately 2700 North Redwood
Road.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 4/9/2024
Time Start:
Time End:

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: None.
Garion – Fire: None
Ryan – Water/Sewer: None.
James – Parks: None.
Gary – Building/Inspections:
1. Add location of meter
Shelbey – Public Works: None.
Brad – Engineering:
2. Change 2700 North callout to read Ferguson Drive - Page 2 of Plat
3. Change 10.0' PUDE callout to read "10.0' PU&RCE" - Page 2 of Plat
Luke- Traffic: None.
Kim – Planning:
4. Change White Cliff Drive to Ferguson Drive


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 25TH.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
           Innovation Park Tandem Townhomes redesign proposal


Ivory Innovations is a non-profit organization with a mission to catalyze innovation in
housing affordability. Established in 2017, the organization was created in response to
the escalating challenges within the housing industry. Fueled by a commitment to
address these issues, Ivory Innovations devotes its time, talent, and resources to
champion innovation and provide unwavering support to companies striving to alleviate
the housing affordability crisis.

In 2020, Ivory Innovations operating foundation started with a mission to develop
affordable housing in Utah, utilizing some of the most innovative construction, design,
and financing techniques to achieve that.

Innovation Park at Holbrook Farms is our first and largest affordable housing project,
totaling 240 units divided into 2 phases; phase 1, currently under construction, will include
142 units. Phase 2 will consist of 98 units.

Innovation Park at Holbrook Farms was designed in an innovative way to boost density
using two unique design approaches: the tandem parking townhome and the Back-to-
Back designs. During construction, we realized that more optimization of the Tandem
Townhome unit design could be achieved without compromising the quality of living. The
changes include removing the jog in the party wall between units, which will simplify the
structure; we also optimized the units’ design to help advance affordability.

If approved, the new design will be implemented in two buildings in Phase 1, as indicated
in the submitted plan, and 5 buildings in Phase 2. The new design will not affect the
project density.

With this proposal, Ivory Innovations hopes the city will join us in our mission to address
the pressing need for innovative solutions to expand affordable housing in Utah.




Thank you very much for your consideration.
