                                       ALLISON ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant         Lory Costello- Neeley
                                  Meeting Date          April 25, 2024
                       Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                        change
                               Decision Type            Legislative
                                    Location            2145 West 700 South
                                     Acreage            0.99 acres
                             Existing Zoning            TH-5
  Existing General Plan Land Use Designation            VLDRA
                Proposed Zoning Designation             RA-1
                           Existing Land Use            Single family residential
              Adjacent Zoning and Land Use              North R-1-12              Dapple Gray Trails Plat A Subdivi-
                                                                                  sion
                                                         South R-1-22             Ward Meadows Subdivision
                                                          East R-1-12             Wardxing Plat B Subdivision
                                                          West RA-1               Stone’s Corner Subdivision
                             Date of DRC Review         April 3, 2024
                               Assigned Planner         Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                    City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES




Allison Zone Change
VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL (VLDRA)

The purpose of the Very Low Density Residential/Agricultural (VLDRA) classification is to provide for single-family
residential areas within a rural setting, with an overall neighborhood density not to exceed 1.75 units per acre. Much of
the area designated as VLDRA is located where small-scale farming, hobby farming, or other agricultural uses are pre-
sent. Where new development is allowed adjacent to existing agricultural areas, the new development must be sensitive
to the existing uses. Larger lot sizes and lower density zones that allow for animal rights will be encouraged where ad-
jacent to such agricultural areas. In particular, provision should be made for hobby farms, ranchettes, or equestrian-
related developments where the development is to be located adjacent to similar existing uses.

The VLDRA designation is also intended to encourage creativity and flexibility of planning and design through the use
of Planned Residential Design projects and Planned Unit Developments, where clustering and open space, with a varie-
ty of lot sizes and a range of housing choices can be accomplished while still maintaining a base density of 1.75 units
per acre. Although new development in VLDRA areas is allowed, the existing agricultural uses will be encouraged to
remain. Growth should be directed in an orderly manner, growing outward from existing developed areas where public
facilities are available.


     PROPERTY HISTORY

August 17, 2004- Property was annexed into Lehi City with the Barber Addition.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from TH-5 to RA-1 on 0.99 acres lo-
cated at 2145 West 700 South. The zone change is consistent with the General Plan because the RA-1 zone is allowed
on parcels that are less than two acres. Additionally, the proposed zone change is consistent with the zoning of the sur-
rounding area. The proposed amendment would allow for a future flag lot subdivision.

There were two DRC redline comments including:

1.    As a condition of recording the zone change ordinance, water dedication will be required. The amount of water for
      the RA-1 Zone is 1.13 acre feet per acre of culinary water and 2.56 acre feet per acre of irrigation water.

Please consider all DRC comments in your decision.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative decisions. However, zone changes that meet the General Plan must be approved unless
strong reasons are provided for the detriment that the zone change would cause to the City.

The Public can comment on zone changes but should understand that this proposed zone change meets the General Plan
so significant reasons would need to be provided to deny the proposed zone change.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;




Allison Zone Change
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Allison Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          April 3, 2024

                                                Allison Residential Zone Change
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Lory Costello-Neeley- requests review of the Allison Zone Change, located at 2145 West 700 South, changing the zoning
on .99-acres from TH-5 to RA-1.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Mitch Brown
Date of Plans Reviewed: 3/26/2024
Time Start: 1:05 pm
Time End: 1:10 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey– Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. As a condition of recording the zone change ordinance, water dedication will be required. The amount of water for the
    RA-1 Zone is 1.13 acre feet per acre of culinary water and 2.56 acre feet per acre of irrigation water.

General Comments:
1. The General Plan is VLDRA on this property, but the RA-1 zone would be allowed since the parcel is less than two
   acres.
2. For a flag lot to work, there would need to be 30' from the west property line to the existing home to allow the 20' flag
   stem, and a 10' setback for the existing home.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 25, 2024.
(NEED ENVELOPES BEFORE SCHEDULING)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
March 25, 2024

Lehi City Development Review Committee
153 North 100 East
Lehi, Utah 84043
(385) 201-1000

Re:    Zoning Map Amendment
       Allison Subdivision


To whom it may concern,

On behalf of our client and the property owner, Lory Costello-Neeley, we are submitting Applications
for a Zoning Map Amendment and a Two-Lot Subdivision with Existing Home for the property located
at 2145 West 700 South in Lehi, Utah. We propose to subdivide this parcel into two lots according to
Lehi Cities Flag Lot Requirements and Development Standards.

We proposed to amended the zoning of this property from TH-5 to RA-1. This amendment will keep the
property zoned for Low-Density residential housing, consistent with the General Plan. It also matches
the zoning immediately to the west of the property.

This amendment will not affect the character or uses of the surrounding area, as the property is
surrounding by low-density residential properties and the neighboring lot to the west is an existing Flag-
Lot. The amendment will make a Flag-Lot possible, bringing an additional single-family home to Lehi.

We appreciate your consideration of these applications. Please contact me directly if you have any
questions related to this proposed zoning amendment.

Sincerely,

Mitchell M. Brown
Mitch Brown, E.I.T.
MW Brown Engineering, Inc.
