                    SKYE AREA WEST GRADING PERMIT REVISION
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                Applicant      DR Horton
                            Meeting Date       April 25, 2024
                 Requested Action/Purpose      Public hearing and recommendation of a proposed revised grading
                                               permit
                                 Location      Approximately 4340 North Center Street
                          Existing Zoning      Planned Community (PC)
                 General Plan Designation      Mixed Use, Medium Density, Low Density, High Density, Open Space
                       Existing Land Use       Undeveloped Land
                     Date of DRC Review        April 10, 2024
                        Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission       Public hearing and recommendation
                             City Council      Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 12-B.050 Grading Permit Issuance.

        (a) When considering the approval of the grading permit the Public Works Director, Reviewing Departments,
        and (when applicable), Planning Commission and City Council, will verify that all of the following criteria are
        met (in addition to other applicable requirements of this code and other city codes):
            (i) Approval of the proposal will not pose a threat to or be detrimental to the public health, safety, and
                  welfare, nor be materially detrimental to fish and wildlife habitat and/or water resources as determined
                  by an expert consultant.
            (ii) The proposal is not in a sensitive lands area, as defined by Sections 12.060 (J) (K) of the Lehi City
                  Development Code.
            (iii) All subdivisions plats and/or site plans must have at least a preliminary approval prior to issuance of a
                  grading permit
EPORT ANALYSIS
  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 21, 1995             A portion of the property came into Lehi as the Micron Annexation

May 27, 1999              A portion of the property came into Lehi as the Low Hills Annexation

August 23, 2022           City Council approved the Skye Area Plan

April 11, 2023            City Council approved the Skye West Side Grading Permit

April 9, 2024             City Council approved the Revised Skye Phase 1 Preliminary Subdivision



  REPORT ANALYSIS




Skye Area West Grading Permit Revisions
The applicant requests review and recommendation of the Skye Area West Side grading revisions. This was previously
approved for 144.86- acres. The applicant now wants to expand it to approximately 264 acres. This includes all of the
area that was previously approved for grading as well as additional area included in Skye Preliminary Plat B and the
area where the Horton Way Backbone has been approved as well as utilities.

One of the DRC comments was for the applicant to provide an updated narrative. They never provided this but did
communicate that material will still not be moved off site, and that the time period for the grading will be a couple of
years.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL
Grading permits are an administrative approval item, as long as they meet the requirements of the Code it must be
approved. It is also a public hearing item. The public can speak to any specific concerns that they have. And the
Commission could consider additional measures that need to be taken into account based on any unique circumstances
of the land. However, they cannot deny the grading permit.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or approve with modifications the proposed grading
permit. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed grading will all take place on site with no importing or exporting of materials.
2.    The applicant proposes the proper water and planting mitigation to minimize the dust impact on surrounding uses.
3.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements in
      the vicinity.
4.    The proposed use will be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies of the Lehi
      City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
5.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Skye Area West Grading Permit Revisions
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 10, 2024

                                                Revised Skye West Side Grading
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Dr Horton- requests review of the revised Skye West Side Grading changing it from 144 to 264 acres.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Jeff Stephenson and Ben Tuckett
Date of Plans Reviewed: 4/2/2024
Time Start: 1:35pm
Time End: 1:43pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks:
1. Show existing trail and provide relocation plan through substation.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
2. Provide an updated narrative including the timing of work, the amount of material, if any is being moved off-site, and
    the haul route.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 25th

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
