           BAUR TOWING AND IMPOUND YARD CONDITIONAL USE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant          Cisco Montes
                           Meeting Date          April 25, 2024
              Requested Action/Purpose           Approval of a proposed towing yard conditional use
                          Decision Type          Administrative
                               Location          4651 North Digital Drive
                        Existing Zoning          Light Industrial (LI)
      General Plan Land Use Designation          Commercial (C)
                      Existing Land Use          Parking Lot
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use              North Light Industrial       Transwest Property
                                                    South Light Industrial      Transwest Property
                                                     East Light Industrial      Transwest Property
                                                     West Light Industrial      Transwest Property
                       Date of DRC Review        April 3, 2024
                         Assigned Planner        Brittney Harris

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission         Final approval
                             City Council        No action required


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.250. Site Plan Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Site Plan shall be as follows:
Permitted Uses (2) Site Plans associated with a permitted use and with a total valuation, including building and all
associated improvements, greater than $500,000 dollars shall require approval by the Planning Commission,
following a review by the DRC. The Planning Commission may require that the approval of a Site Plan be forwarded
to the City Council if they determine a project is likely to have a significant impact on traffic, environmental quality,
lighting, compatibility of uses, or the health, safety, or general welfare of the surrounding properties, property values,
or residents. The Planning Commission and or City Council may hold a public hearing on any project likely to have
a significant impact on the surrounding property, values or residents.

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the vicinity
of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said requirements and
conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site planning, traffic
control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads, and time limits for
the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential requirements and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers of
    all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance and
    character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter, heat,
    glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.




Baur Towing and Impound Yards Conditional Use
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and operated
    in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of the
    proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General Plan,
    and the intent and purpose of this Code.

The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being, or
will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with the
land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest.

Section 12.130. Supplementary Requirements for Mixed Use, Nonresidential, and Special Districts.
G.     Towing and Impound Yards.

    1. Towing and impound yards may be allowed as a Conditional Use in the LI and I Zones. Any towing and impound
    yard that existed and was legally created prior to the adoption of this section on November 15, 2011 shall be
    considered legal non-conforming, and shall be allowed to continue, as per Chapter 24 of this Code.

     2. In addition to the provisions of this Code, towing and impound yards shall comply with all State requirements.

    3. Any towing and impound yard shall include a permanent structure to be used as the office for the business. The
    building shall conform to the Commercial Design Standards contained in Chapter 37 of this Code.

    4. The site shall be suitably landscaped and the impound area should be screened from view from any public street
    or abutting properties by an eight-foot opaque, masonry, sight-obscuring fence. The height of the fence shall be
    measured at finished grade of the subject property. A chain link fence with slats shall not constitute an acceptable
    screening device to satisfy these requirements, unless specifically approved by the Planning Commission.

     5. Towing and impound yards shall not include any salvaging or auto wrecking uses.

     6. No vehicle shall remain for more than 180 days on a lot.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

March 25, 1996             Property came into Lehi City as part of the Transwest Annexation


  REPORT ANALYSIS
The applicant requests approval of the Baur Towing and Impound Yard Conditional Use. The proposed location for
this use, 4651 North Digital Drive, is in the light industrial zone. The applicant provided a narrative and pictures
explaining the proposed use and existing conditions of the property.

This area currently has no access to water and sewer, limiting the types of businesses that can go here. The
applicant proposes leasing space in the existing building for an office.

The applicant’s narrative states that there is an existing site obscuring fence around the perimeter. They also stated
that an existing fence exists in the area they are proposing storing the cars but they will add a gate for access. The
only other improvement they propose is signage.

DRC had a comment for Planning Commission to consider setting a maximum number of vehicles that will be
allowed at one time. This number could be based on the number of cars that can be reasonably parked in the
proposed space.




Baur Towing and Impound Yards Conditional Use
  SCOPE OF APPROVAL
Towing is a conditional use. This means it is an allowed use that can have reasonable conditions put on the approval
by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission should consider any potential negative impacts to neighbors
and how these could be mitigated.

This is a public hearing item. The public can speak on this use but should realize it must be approved. The public
may suggest conditions to mitigate against negative impacts.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or approve with conditions the proposed conditional use. Any
motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed use will/will not be conducted as effectively as possible with no utilities in the area.
    2.   The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or
         improvements in the vicinity and will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, general welfare or
         convenience.
    3.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and
         policies of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
    4.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate
         size and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that
         it will not be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
    5.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public meeting.




Baur Towing and Impound Yards Conditional Use
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 3, 2024

                                           Baur Companies Towing Conditional Use
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Cisco Montes- requests review of the Baur Companies Towing and Impound Yards Conditional Use located at
approximately 4651 North Digital Drive in the Light Industrial zone.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Cisco Montes
Date of Plans Reviewed: 3/25/2024
Time Start: 2:25pm
Time End: 2:28pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. As a condition of approval, the Planning Commission should consider setting a maximum number of vehicles allowed
    at one time within the tow yard area.
2. Check with the police department separately about rotation. They might not have room in their rotation for a few years.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 25th at 7pm

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
