          CODDINGTON ADU CONDITIONAL USE AND SITE PLAN
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Mark Coddington
                         Meeting Date         May 9, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use and site plan
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        444 South 100 West
                          Project Area        0.64 Acres
                       Existing Zoning        A-1
              General Plan Designation        LDR
                    Existing Land Use         Single Family Home and Shop
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North R-2                       Single Family
                                                 South A-1                       Agriculture
                                                  East A-1                       Single Family
                                                  West A-1                       Single Family
                     Date of DRC Review       April 24, 2024
                       Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval
                           City Council       No action required


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.


                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest.

Section 26.040. Detached Accessory Dwelling Units.
 1. All accessory buildings with an accessory dwelling unit require: (a) A minimum 15,000 square foot lot size. (b)
The maximum finished living area of the dwelling unit shall not exceed 1300 square feet. (c) Must be on a permanent
foundation. (d) Only one accessory dwelling unit is allowed per lot, meaning an ADU cannot be approved in the main
structure and in a detached building. (e) All lighting shall comply with Section 12.110. (f) A separate address (assigned
by the City) is required to be displayed in a size and location that is clearly visible from the street. (i) The address will
be the primary home address with a ½ at the end signifying to emergency services that it is in a detached dwelling
unit. (g) All utility services shall be connected to the primary dwelling. (h) Adequate all-weather access shall be
provided for emergency service vehicles and utilities. (i) The accessory dwelling unit shall include a minimum of two
off-street parking stalls in addition to the parking required for the primary dwelling. Each parking stall shall be a
minimum of 9 feet by 20 feet in size. (j) The accessory dwelling must meet all other requirements of Section 26.030
for Accessory Dwelling Units.

2. New build construction will be a permitted use if it meets the following requirements: (a) Can be within five feet
of either the side or rear property line if the wall within five feet has either no windows or two small opaque windows
each no greater than two square feet in size. If the walls have windows larger than two square feet in size, a minimum
setback of 10 feet is required for a one-story (maximum 20-foot height) structure. Any two-story structure (or that
exceeds 20 feet in height) must meet the setbacks for a primary dwelling in the zone. (b) The height of the accessory
building shall be no greater than the primary structure to a maximum of 35 feet. (c) The dwelling portion of the
accessory building must be at least 300 square feet in area. (d) Review of a new build ADU will be done by the
Reviewing Departments to determine adequate access, utilities, address location, and other design features.

3. Conversion of an existing accessory building (permitted prior to 2021) into an ADU requires a Conditional Use
Permit. (a) The dwelling portion of the accessory building must be at least 300 square feet and does not require a
garage. (b) The dwelling portion of the building must have a minimum setback of 5 feet from the property line. (c) If
the building is built within the required setback for the zone no windows can Chapter 26 Accessory Uses, Buildings
and Structures on the side(s) of the structure within the required setback. (d) The conditional use approval will include
review by the Reviewing Departments to determine adequate access, utilities, address location, and other design fea-
tures.


  PROPERTY HISTORY
June 15, 1872- Property was included with the original Lehi City boundary.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval of a conditional use permit for the conversion of an existing accessory building
into an ADU on their property located at 444 S 100 W. Detached ADUs are permitted use in the A-1 zone and require
a minimum lot size of 15,000 square feet. However, as noted in both the Table of Uses and Chapter 26 they may
require a conditional use permit based on the year built. The lot size of this property is 27,000 square feet, thus the
conditional use is due to the year built. As per section 26.040.3 of Lehi city Code “Conversion of an existing accessory
building (permitted prior to 2021) into an ADU requires a Conditional Use Permit.”

The detached ADU will be 1280 square feet and tenant parking will be located in front of the unit off-street to the
north. The ADU is setback 10 feet from the property line to the west which provides adequate setback.

DRC had four redline comments including:
   1. Provide and address in a conspicuous location
   2. Show the other existing buildings on the site plan and indicate whether they are to remain or be demol-
       ished.
   3. Show on the site plan the proposed area for parking.

The applicant addressed the DRC comments in an updated site plan.

Please consider all DRC Comments in you motion.

                                                                                                                           2
     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional Use applications are administrative items. Meaning if they meet the Code they must be approved. How-
ever, our Code does outline some conditions that may be placed on these uses to mitigate against potential harm to
neighbors.

This is a public hearing item. Public comments focused on potential negative impacts and any conditions that could
reduce these impacts provide useful information to the Commission.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed ADU and site plan. Any motion should
include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
2.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
3.    That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
      and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
      be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
4.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                        3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 24, 2024

                                                   Coddington Detached ADU
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Mark Coddington- requests review of a detached accessory dwelling unit located at 444 South 100 West.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Mark Coddington
Date of Plans Reviewed: 4/16/2024
Time Start: 2:47 pm
Time End: 3:08 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire:
1. Provide an address in a conspicuous location.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
2. Show the other existing buildings on the site plan and indicate whether they are to remain or be demolished.
3. Conversion of an existing accessory building (permitted prior to 2021) into an ADU requires a Conditional Use Permit.
4. Show on the site plan the proposed area for parking.

GENERAL COMMENTS:
   1. General Comment: Only one accessory dwelling unit is allowed per lot, meaning an ADU cannot be approved in
      the main structure and in a detached building.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MAY 9, 2024.
(NEED ENVELOPES FOR PUBLIC NOTICE)

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
