                           UPDATED MODERATE INCOME HOUSING
                              GOALS, STRATEGIES, TIMELINE
                                       PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                 Applicant               Lehi City
                             Meeting Date                May 9, 2024
                  Requested Action/Purpose               Review and recommendation on proposed updates to the Moderate-In-
                                                         come Housing Goals
                               Decision Type             Legislative
                         Date of DRC Review              May 1, 2024

                                                    REQUIRED ACTION
                       Planning Commission               Review and recommendation
                               City Council              Final approval



  APPLICABLE STATE CODE

Utah Code Title 10 Chapter 9a Part 4 Section 403


 (b) In drafting the moderate income housing element, the planning commission:
      (i) shall consider the Legislature's determination that municipalities shall facilitate a reasonable opportunity
          for a variety of housing, including moderate income housing:
           (A) to meet the needs of people of various income levels living, working, or desiring to live or work in
               the community; and
          (B) to allow people with various incomes to benefit from and fully participate in all aspects of neighbor-
              hood and community life;
      (ii) for a town, may include, and for a specified municipality as defined in Section 10-9a-408, shall include,
           an analysis of how the municipality will provide a realistic opportunity for the development of moderate
           income housing within the next five years;
      (iii) for a town, may include, and for other municipalities, shall include, a recommendation to implement
            three or more of the following moderate income housing strategies:
             (A) rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of moderate income housing;
            (B) demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation or expansion of infrastructure that facilitates the con-
                struction of moderate income housing;
            (C) demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation of existing uninhabitable housing stock into moderate
                income housing;
            (D) identify and utilize general fund subsidies or other sources of revenue to waive construction related
                fees that are otherwise generally imposed by the municipality for the construction or rehabilitation
                of moderate income housing;
            (E) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached accessory dwelling units
                in residential zones;
            (F) zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development in commercial or
                mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial centers, or employment cen-
                ters;




Moderate Income Housing Goals, Strategies and Timeline
            (G) amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new moderate income residential devel-
                opment in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors;
            (H) amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce parking requirements for residential development
                where a resident is less likely to rely on the resident's own vehicle, such as residential development
                near major transit investment corridors or senior living facilities;
            (I) amend land use regulations to allow for single room occupancy developments;
            (J) implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new developments;
            (K) preserve existing and new moderate income housing and subsidized units by utilizing a landlord in-
                centive program, providing for deed restricted units through a grant program, or, notwithstanding
                Section 10-9a-535, establishing a housing loss mitigation fund;
            (L) reduce, waive, or eliminate impact fees related to moderate income housing;
            (M) demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land trust program for moderate income
                housing;
            (N) implement a mortgage assistance program for employees of the municipality, an employer that pro-
                vides contracted services to the municipality, or any other public employer that operates within the
                municipality;
            (O) apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax incentives to promote
                the construction of moderate income housing, an entity that applies for programs offered by the
                Utah Housing Corporation within that agency's funding capacity, an entity that applies for afforda-
                ble housing programs administered by the Department of Workforce Services, an entity that applies
                for affordable housing programs administered by an association of governments established by an
                interlocal agreement under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies
                for services provided by a public housing authority to preserve and create moderate income hous-
                ing, or any other entity that applies for programs or services that promote the construction or
                preservation of moderate income housing;
            (P) demonstrate utilization of a moderate income housing set aside from a community reinvestment
                agency, redevelopment agency, or community development and renewal agency to create or subsi-
                dize moderate income housing;
            (Q) create a housing and transit reinvestment zone pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part 6, Housing
                and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act;
            (R) eliminate impact fees for any accessory dwelling unit that is not an internal accessory dwelling unit
                as defined in Section 10-9a-530;
            (S) create a program to transfer development rights for moderate income housing;
            (T) ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local political subdivision for the purpose of com-
                bining resources to acquire property for moderate income housing;
            (U) develop a moderate income housing project for residents who are disabled or 55 years old or older;
            (V) develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with Section 10-9a-403.1;
            (W) create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily residential dwellings compatible
                in scale and form with detached single-family residential dwellings and located in walkable com-
                munities within residential or mixed-use zones; and
            (X) demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the housing needs of resi-
                dents of the municipality who earn less than 80% of the area median income, including the dedica-
                tion of a local funding source to moderate income housing or the adoption of a land use ordinance
                that requires 10% or more of new residential development in a residential zone be dedicated to
                moderate income housing; and
      (iv) in addition to the recommendations required under Subsection (2)(b)(iii), for a municipality that has a
           fixed guideway public transit station, shall include a recommendation to implement:
            (A) the strategy described in Subsection (2)(b)(iii)(V); and




Moderate Income Housing Goals, Strategies and Timeline
           (B) a strategy described in Subsection (2)(b)(iii)(G), (H), or (Q).

 (c) (i) In drafting the implementation plan portion of the moderate income housing element as described in Sub-
         section (2)(a)(iii)(C), the planning commission shall establish a timeline for implementing each of the
         moderate income housing strategies selected by the municipality for implementation.
      (ii) The timeline described in Subsection (2)(c)(i) shall:
           (A) identify specific measures and benchmarks for implementing each moderate income housing strat-
               egy selected by the municipality, whether one-time or ongoing; and
           (B) provide flexibility for the municipality to make adjustments as needed.



  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

General Plan; General Procedures.
A.     A proposed amendment to the Lehi City General Plan may be initiated by any property owner, any person
residing in the City, any business owner, the Hearing Examiner, the Planning Commission, the City Council, the
Reviewing Departments, or the City Staff by filing an application for a General Plan amendment.

B.     An application for an amendment to the Lehi City General Plan or General Plan Land Use Map shall be filed
with the City on the applicable application form as established pursuant to the provisions of this Code.

 C.     If such amendment is approved, the applicant may then proceed to file an application for development approval
if the development is consistent with the approved General Plan amendment.

Section 04.020. Procedures for Amending the Lehi City General Plan Text and Maps.

A.     The Planning Division shall prepare a report of the findings of the Reviewing Departments within 21 days and
not less than seven days prior to the meeting with the Commission indicating whether the proposed amendment is
consistent with the Elements of the General Plan including, the effect of the proposed amendment on the existing
goals, objectives and policies of the General Plan, and listing any revisions to this Code that would be needed to
implement the proposed amendment.

 B.    Prior to recommending the adoption, rejection or revision of any General Plan amendment, the Planning Com-
mission shall hold a public hearing in accordance with the procedures of this Code and the Utah Code, after receiving
the report of the findings of the Reviewing Departments and providing at least ten days’ notice.

 C.      After the Planning Commission has reviewed the application and made its recommendation, the Planning
Division shall submit a copy of the General Plan amendment as recommended by the Commission, the report of the
findings of the Reviewing Departments, and the transcripts or minutes of the proceedings before the Commission to
the City Council. The City Council shall then schedule a public meeting to consider the Planning Commission rec-
ommendation. The City Council shall consider the proposed General Plan amendment and the recommendation of
the Commission pursuant to the procedures established by this Code and the Utah Code including the required notice
for a public meeting. The City Council shall approve the amendment, revise and approve the proposed amendment,
or reject the proposed amendment. If the City Council approves the proposed amendment as submitted or as revised,
the City Council shall adopt the General Plan amendment by ordinance.

Section 04.040. Effect of General Plan Amendment.
From and after the effective date of a General Plan amendment, no amendments shall be made to this Code nor shall
any development permit be approved or approved with conditions, unless such amendments, approvals and conditions
are consistent with the adopted General Plan or Element or portion thereof as amended. A General Plan amendment
does not authorize the development of land. After a General Plan amendment has been approved by the City Council,
no development shall occur until the required development permits and licenses have been issued by the City.




Moderate Income Housing Goals, Strategies and Timeline
  REPORT ANALYSIS

City Staff requests review and recommendation of proposed updates to the Moderate-Income Housing Element of the
General Plan updating the strategies and timelines for the seven goals.

This is a minor update to the goals, strategies, and timeline. None of the goals changed, some of the strategies changed
slightly, and the timelines were updated for this year. This is all in preparation for the annual report due this summer.

City Staff formed an internal committee to discuss different solutions for housing affordability. Staff also worked with
a few people in the development community and plan to continue to work with them to try to find a way to include
market driven attainable housing that does not include government subsidies. The rest of the strategies remained pretty
much the same with some of them switching to analyzing the impact of changes made last year.

The DRC reviewed the proposed updates and had one comment to update the wording on goal 3 to match the wording
of the State Code.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Amending the General Plan is a legislative item. However, with these being minor updates to continue to comply with
the State, the Planning Commission may recommend additional changes as long as they are in harmony with the State
requirements. These changes could be made primarily to the strategies and timelines.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed updates to the Lehi City
Moderate Income Housing Plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

     1.   The proposed Moderate Income Housing Goals, Strategies and Timeline are/are not in compliance with the
          State requirements.
     2.   The proposed Moderate Income Housing Goals, Strategies and Timeline will/will not increase affordability
          in Lehi.
     3.   The proposed Moderate Income Housing Goals, Strategies and Timeline is/is not in conformance with the
          purposes, intent, and provisions of the General Plan and its various elements.
     4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Moderate Income Housing Goals, Strategies and Timeline
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 1, 2024

                                                Moderate Income Housing Goals
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Lehi City- requests review of updates to the Goals, Strategies and timeline for Moderate Income Housing

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 4/24/2024
Time Start:
Time End:

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1.
Garion – Fire:
2.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
3.
James – Parks:
4.
Gary – Building/Inspections:
5.
Shelbey – Public Works:
6.
Brad – Engineering:
7.
Luke- Traffic:
8.
Kim – Planning:
9. Update goal 3 to say "higher" and "major"
    "amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new moderate income residential development in
    commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors;"


THIS ITEM WILL

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
XI. LEHI’S GOALS, STRATEGIES, AND TIMELINE FOR MODERATE INCOME
HOUSING (Updated DATE)

Goal 1 Develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with Section 10-9a-403.1
      Strategy 1: Update the Lehi Thanksgiving Point Frontrunner Station Area Plan to
      meet requirements for certification.
          • Work with MAG to understand what updates are needed and make the updates.

      Timeline
      Summer 2024- Updates complete on the Station Area Plan.

      Strategy 2: Continue work on the North Lehi, Hospital and 2100 North and the
      Downtown Area Plans
          • Work with consultants on individual projects.
          • Keep moving forward towards adoption on all three plans.
          • Submit the North Lehi and the Hospital and 2100 North Station Area Plans for
             final approval.


      Timeline
      August 2023 and 2024- weekly meetings and work on the station area plan.
      Fall 2024- Begin the process of approval for the North Lehi and Hospital and 2100 North
      Station Area Plans
      Spring 2025- Begin the process of approval for the Downtown Lehi Station Area Plan

Goal 2 Create a housing and transit reinvestment zone pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3,
Part 6, Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act
      Strategy 1: Adopt a housing and transit reinvestment zone around the Lehi
      Frontrunner Station
          • City Council adopt the HTRZ zone.
          • Work on a Development Agreement with the HTRZ and the developers.

      Timeline
      September 2023- Adoption of the HTRZ zone by City Council
      August 2024- Adoption of the Development Agreement with the HTRZ and developers
      2024-2025 – Implementation of the HTRZ and evaluation of the resulting developments.

Goal 3 Amend land use regulations to allow for high density or new moderate income
residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near transit investment
corridors
      Strategy 1: Review the approved Mixed-Use projects, number of units, and the
      remaining density
          • Create a map of proposed and approved mixed-use projects with the number of
             units. And how many units per acre each one was.
          •   Evaluate the units left.


       Timeline
       Spring and Summer 2024- create map of all proposed and approved mixed-use projects
       Fall 2024- review numbers with the Planning Commission and City Council in work
       sessions. And evaluate the success of the new units in the Mixed-Use zone.

Goal 4 Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, multifamily residential
dwellings compatible in scale and form with detached single-family residential dwellings
and located in walkable communities within residential or mixed-use zones
       Strategy 1: Evaluate the potential to add more duplexes, twin homes, and other
       multifamily dwellings in the downtown area as part of the Downtown Area Plan
           • Consultants evaluate density available for the downtown area and benefits of
              developing with smaller infill development.
           • Consider design requirements for new construction in the downtown area that
              maintain the historic look and feel.


       Timeline
       Summer 2024- Analysis of the Downtown Area Plan density and development
       Fall 2024- Recommendation of Design Requirements for new construction in historic
       downtown area.

Goal 5 Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or detached
accessory dwelling units in residential zones
       Strategy 1: Evaluate the impact of allowing Detached Accessory Dwelling Units
       (ADUs) on 1/3 acre lots
           • Prepare a map of all of the detached ADUs approved, and the size of the lot
           • Report to the City Council on the number of detached ADUs on 1/3 acre lots
           • Conduct a survey to understand why people have not submitted for more detached
              ADUs

       Timeline
       Summer 2024-Analysis of the existing detached ADUs
       Fall 2024-Survey to Lehi Residents about detached ADUs
       Winter 2024-2025- Presentation to the Planning Commission and City Council on the
       number of ADUs

Goal 6 Demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the
housing needs of residents of the county/municipality who earn less than 80% of the area
median income, including the dedication of a local funding source to moderate income
housing or the adoption of a land use ordinance that requires 10% or more of new
residential development in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate income housing
       Strategy 1: Work with the development community to create a proposal to amend the
       Development Code to create an affordable housing overlay zone
           • Create a draft for an attainable housing overlay zone that allows a Development
              Agreement between the City and the Developer
           • Work with the Planning Commission and City Council to get it approved

       Timeline
       Spring and Summer 2024-Work with different departments and development community
       to draft proposed wording for Development Code Amendment
       Fall 2024- Submit the proposed Development Code Amendment for approval

Goal 7 Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or federal funds or tax
incentives to promote the construction of moderate income housing, an entity that applies
for programs offered by the Utah Housing Corporation within that agency's funding
capacity, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by the
Department of Workforce Services, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs
administered by an association of governments established by an interlocal agreement
under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, an entity that applies for services
provided by a public housing authority to preserve and create moderate income housing, or
any other entity that applies for programs or services that promote the construction or
preservation of moderate income housing


       Strategy 1: Continue to participate in the Utah Valley Home Consortium
           • Review projects and vote on how to use funds available by the Home Consortium

       Timeline
       Strategy 1: Encourage developers, builders and residents in Lehi City to apply for the
       funds available through the Utah Valley Home Consortium
           • Create information sheets to hand out encouraging people to apply
           • Encourage those who might qualify to apply

       Timeline
       March 2024- Review and approve projects that were submitted for the Home Consortium
       funds.
       Fall 2024- Put together an information sheet on the Home Consortium and how to apply
       for funds.
