            TRIPLE B INVESTMENT GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant        Triple B Investment Group
                                Meeting Date         May 9, 2023
                     Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation for an amendment to the General
                                                     Plan
                              Decision Type          Legislative
                                   Location          1630 South 500 East
                                    Acreage          15
                            Existing Zoning          A-5
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          ESA
             Proposed Land Use Designation           VLDRA
                          Existing Land Use          Undeveloped
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North PC/PF             Quail Run Townhomes
                                                      South A-5              Utah Lake Shoreline
                                                       East PC               Spring Creek Ranch Subdivisions
                                                       West A-5              Undeveloped
                           Date of DRC Review        April 17, 2024
                             Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                                  City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval
The Planning Commission should consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a General Plan
amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoin-
         ing properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREA (ESA)
The Environmentally Sensitive Area (ESA) classification is intended to protect sensitive lands that are either prone




Triple B Investment General Plan Amendment
to natural hazards such as flooding and slope failure or are otherwise unsuitable for development due to ecological
constraints. The ESA designation includes areas within the 100-year flood plains of the Jordan River and Dry
Creek, areas below the high-water elevation of Utah Lake, and areas with slopes exceeding 30%.

Due to the characteristics of these Environmentally Sensitive Areas, development is limited. Where development is
allowed in areas adjacent to an ESA, it should be approached with care to ensure there is no long-term loss of prop-
erty or human life. Special consideration should be given to development along the Dry Creek corridor, due to
flood hazards as well as the steep slopes along the creek ravine from Center Street to the Lehi/Highland boarder.
New vehicular crossings of the creek should be limited. New cuts and fills for roads and building pads along the
slopes of the ravine are highly discouraged. PRDs and PUDs will be encouraged to allow clustering of units on the
least sensitive areas. The applicable Zoning District classification for areas identified as Environmentally Sensitive
Area is A-5. At the discretion of the City, lot lines may extend into ESA’s

VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL (VLDRA) The purpose of the Very Low Density
Residential/Agricultural (VLDRA) classification is to provide for single-family residential areas within a rural set-
ting, with an overall neighborhood density not to exceed 1.75 units per acre. Much of the area designated as
VLDRA is located where small-scale farming, hobby farming, or other agricultural uses are present. Where new
development is allowed adjacent to existing agricultural areas, the new development must be sensitive to the exist-
ing uses. Larger lot sizes and lower density zones that allow for animal rights will be encouraged where adjacent to
such agricultural areas. In particular, provision should be made for hobby farms, ranchettes, or equestrian-related
developments where the development is to be located adjacent to similar existing uses.

The VLDRA designation is also intended to encourage creativity and flexibility of planning and design through the
use of Planned Residential Design projects and Planned Unit Developments, where clustering and open space, with
a variety of lot sizes and a range of housing choices can be accomplished while still maintaining a base density of
1.75 units per acre. Although new development in VLDRA areas is allowed, the existing agricultural uses will be
encouraged to remain. Growth should be directed in an orderly manner, growing outward from existing developed
areas where public facilities are available.

ENVIRONMENT Create a built environment that pays special attention to the natural environment and its limited
resources, natural hazards, and unique geography.

RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT Accommodate a range of housing and neighborhood types suitable for a variety
of lifestyles, ages, affordability levels, and design options.

  PROPERTY HISTORY

January 20, 1999- Property Annexed in Mill Pond Annexation


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting to amend the General Plan land use designation on a portion of this property from ESA
to VLDRA. The 15 acres for the proposed change are above the 100-Year Flood Elevation line. This is consistent
with the General Plan designation of VLDRA on the same parcel to the north of the proposed change.

The southern area of the property has been designated as ESA due to proximity to Utah Lake and the flood plain.
The applicant desires to expand the parks and trails in the area along with the development.

This application was initially made during the window of availability for General Plan amendments in February,
but coordination between Staff and the applicant on the 100-Year Flood Elevation line resulted in minor delay until
now.

The DRC redline comment on the General Plan amendment include:




Triple B Investment General Plan Amendment
•    Indicate the number of acres that are proposed to change from ESA to VLDRA.

And DRC General Notes Include:
• Pony Express Parkway is anticipated to be either a 5-lane or a 7-lane roadway.
   The current plans show this roadway with a minimum 105' width, but there are also plans that show this as a 7-lane
   (wider) roadway.

Please consider all DRC Comments in your motion.


    SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a legislative item the Planning Commission has a high level of discretion in whether they approve General Plan
Amendments or not. The Commission should consider the impacts on the current and future and environment if
this develops as VLDRA.


    POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendment to the General
Plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

     1.   The proposed amendment to the Lehi City General Plan is/is not detrimental to the public health, safety,
          and welfare of Lehi City.
     2.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provisions
          of the General Plan and its various elements.
     3.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not consistent with the land uses and zoning of nearby and
          adjoining properties.
     4.   The proposed General Plan amendment will/will not have a substantial adverse effect on surrounding
          property.
     5.   The affected site is/is not physically suitable in terms of design, location, shape, size, operating character-
          istics, and the provision of public services to accommodate any potential future uses, including all land-
          scaping, loading areas, open spaces, parking areas, setbacks, buffering/screening, walls, fences, yards, and
          other required features.
     6.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Triple B Investment General Plan Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         April 17, 2024

                                    Triple B Investment Group General Plan Amendment
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Bill Elton- requests review of the Triple B Investment Group General Plan Amendment on 51.47 acres of property located
at approximately 1630 South 500 East, changing the land use designation from ESA & VLDRA to ESA & VLDRA.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, Trent Dyer
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Tony Trane
Date of Plans Reviewed: 4/10/2024
Time Start: 2:43 pm
Time End: 2:47 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering:
Kim – Planning:
1. Add on the map/exhibit under the property description:
    Proposed designation: VLDRA
    Also indicate the number of acres that are proposed to change from ESA to VLDRA.

General Note:
1. Pony Express Parkway is anticipated to be either a 5-lane or a 7-lane roadway.
   The current plans show this roadway with a minimum 105' width, but there are also plans that show this as a 7-lane
   (wider) roadway.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MAY 9, 2024.
(NEED ENVELOPES BEFORE SCHEDULING)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
4/2/2024

Lehi City
Attn: City Council and Staff

Subject: Triple B Investment Group General Plan Amendment


The property owned by Triple B Investment Group, located at 1630 South 500 East (serial
numbers 13:036:0017 and 13:072:0021) is requesting a General Plan Amendment for the Lehi
City General Plan map for the property of approximately 51.47 acres. The current general plan
designation for this area has a VLDRA and ESA designation. The property to the north is
designated as HDR and the property to the east is LDR. We also understand that there is a
proposal to extend the Pony Express Roadway and have reached out to the City to define the
corridor for the future roadway. The proposed amendment is to define the property north of this
existing 100 yr flood zone to VLDRA and have the remaining property to the south remain as
ESA. We feel this is an appropriate request based on the current conditions in the area, the need
to coordinate with the City for the road right-of-way and to be in line with the existing developed
areas.


In general, the topography, vegetation, and other natural features present on the property of the
proposed General Plan is flat farm land and the use of the property is farm land.


The potential residential density of the proposed area has been in discussions for many years.
The original design concept submitted almost 20 years ago was based on a higher density
designation. We feel that the adjustment to the designation line would be appropriate to in line
with the current elevations.


The proposed amendment will comply with and achieve Lehi City’s land use(s), goals and policies
outlined in the Lehi City General Plan by helping to more clearly identify the location of ESA
designation along with the future roadway alignment. The property is located next to city parks
and trail corridors that connect them and the anticipation is that the future development will
expand the parks and trail system.


The overall direction from Lehi City has been to coordinate this area for a cohesive development
due to the surrounding features and amenities. We feel that this proposal is in line with the
direction of the intent for the current conditions. The additions to the park and trail system will
help to add connectivity and a community feel to the area.
