                   TEXAS INSTRUMENTS LFAB2 GRADING PERMIT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant        Texas Instruments
                            Meeting Date        May 9, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing and recommendation of a proposed grading permit
                                Location        4000 N Flash Drive
                         Existing Zoning        Technical Manufacturing (T/M)
                General Plan Designation        Technical Manufacturing (T/M)
                       Existing Land Use        Existing Texas Instruments Building and supporting infrastructure
                    Date of DRC Review          April 24, 2024
                        Assigned Planner        Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Public hearing and recommendation
                             City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 12-B.050 Grading Permit Issuance.

         (a) When considering the approval of the grading permit the Public Works Director, Reviewing Departments,
         and (when applicable), Planning Commission and City Council, will verify that all of the following criteria are
         met (in addition to other applicable requirements of this code and other city codes):
             (i) Approval of the proposal will not pose a threat to or be detrimental to the public health, safety, and
                   welfare, nor be materially detrimental to fish and wildlife habitat and/or water resources as determined
                   by an expert consultant.
             (ii) The proposal is not in a sensitive lands area, as defined by Sections 12.060 (J) (K) of the Lehi City
                   Development Code.
             (iii) All subdivisions plats and/or site plans must have at least a preliminary approval prior to issuance of a
                   grading permit
EPORT ANALYSIS
  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 21, 1995              Property came into Lehi City as part of the Micron Annexation

March 25, 2010             Planning Commission approved the Micron Site Plan


  REPORT ANALYSIS
The applicant requests review and recommendation of the proposed Texas Instruments LFAB2 Grading permit located
around the existing Texas Instruments building at 4000 North Flash Drive in the Technical Manufacturing Zone.

The applicant has received approval on a preliminary site plan they submitted to DRC. The preliminary site plan shows
the future building, parking, and other high-level details. This was included for the Planning Commissioner’s reference
and is not a part of the grading permit being considered. The preliminary site plan approval was required prior to being
able to get a grading permit.

The applicant’s narrative states that the grading will include approximately 1.2 million cubic yards and will be moved
to a different location on site. They do not foresee the need for any off-site movement of dirt. The operation will take
place for about 12 hours each day from June until October of 2024. They show on the map the location that the



TI LFAB2 Grading Permit
material will be moved to and stored as spoils piles. They also provided information on the plans for reseeding and
the mixture that will be used.

The DRC had two redline comments include:
1. Add Note to all grading pages: Water and fire protection must be provide during all grading activities within the
    Wildland Urban Interface.
2. SWPPP needs to be in place before grading begins

The applicant has already added the note and indicated they will work on getting the SWPPP in place.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL
Grading permits are an administrative item. This means if they meet the Code requirements they must be approved.
The Planning Commission reviews it to ensure compliance with the Code.

The public can speak about this item. Comments focused on specific concerns and the impact on the community and
environment are the most helpful.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed grading permit. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed grading will all take place on site with minimal impact on the surrounding properties.
2.    The proposed grading permit is/is not in compliance with the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code.
3.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements in
      the vicinity.
4.    The proposed use will be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies of the Lehi
      City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
5.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




TI LFAB2 Grading Permit
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 24, 2024

                                          Texas Instruments LFAB2 Grading Permit
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Texas Instruments- requests review of the Texas Instruments LFAB2 Grading Permit including 668 acres located at 4000
North Flash Drive.
DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Kelly Gibbons, Jordan Buescher, Amanda Risano
Date of Plans Reviewed: 4/16/2024
Time Start: 2:30pm
Time End: 2:43pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire:
1. Add Note to all grading pages: Water and fire protection must be provide during all grading activities within the
    Wildland Urban Interface.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works:
2. SWPPP needs to be in place before grading begins
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MAY 9th

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)
1. Submit SWPPP through ComplianceGo or email it to Shelbey (sbrewer@lehi-ut.gov)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
