                                BAUM TWO-LOT SUBDIVISION
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Josh Baum
                         Meeting Date         May 23, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed two-lot subdivision
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        2655 North Center Street
                          Project Area        1.30 acres
                       Existing Zoning        RA-1
              General Plan Designation        Very Low Density Residential (VLDR)
                    Existing Land Use         Single Family Home
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North RA-1                      Single Family Homes
                                                 South A-1                       Single Family Homes
                                                  East RA-1                      Single Family Homes
                                                  West A-1                       Single Family Homes
                    Date of DRC Review        May 1, 2024
                      Assigned Planner        Brittney Harris

                                            REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval
                           City Council       No action required


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

    Section 11.060. Two (2) Lot Subdivision with an Existing Home
    Two (2) Lot Subdivision Criteria. For the purposes of this section a two (2) lot subdivision is defined as a
    subdivision which includes an existing home (at least five (5) years old) and where both lots can meet the criteria
    outlined under the “Urban” category of Table 12-060 and are in compliance with all other development
    requirements and standards with the following exceptions:
    1. The lot with an existing home shall be exempt from the curb and sidewalk improvements. However, this
         exemption does not apply to a 2 lot subdivision with a flag lot.
    2. Both lots shall be exempt from the Right to Farm mitigation requirements specified in Section 18.030 of
         this Code, including the agricultural no climb fence.
    3. In determining whether connection to the City sewer and water systems are required, the additional 150 feet
         (sewer) in Note 1 and the additional 250 feet (water) in note 3 of Table 12-060 shall not apply for the lot
         with an existing home.


  PROPERTY HISTORY
April 14, 2986             Property came into Lehi as part of the North Annexation.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of Baum two-lot subdivision located at 2655 North Center Street in the RA-1 zone.
The applicant also submitted a two-lot subdivision at the same time. The proposed lots both exceed the minimum
15,000 square foot lot size for the RA-1 zone. The front lot also meets the 100 feet of frontage, and the proposed stem
portion of the flag lot exceeds the 20-foot-wide access requirement. All of the lot requirements for the RA-1 zone and
the flag lot requirements have been met.


                                                                                                                      1
The DRC reviewed the proposed flag lot and had four redline comments including:
1. Indicate if existing buildings are to be removed or remain.

Please include all DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Two-lot subdivisions are an administrative item, it they meet the Code they must be approved. The public cannot
speak to these items and the Planning Commission cannot require anything not required in the Development Code.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or approve with modification the proposed two-lot subdivision.
Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed lots meet the RA-1 zone and flag lot requirements.
2.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
3.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
4.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                     2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 1, 2024

                            BaumHaus Estates Flag Lot Conditional Use and 2 Lot Subdivision
                                              DRC Redline Comments

Joshua Baum- requests review of the BaumHaus Estates Flag Lot Conditional Use and 2 Lot Subdivision located at 2645
North Center Street in the RA-1 zone.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Scott Carlson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 3/22/2024
Time Start: 2:33pm
Time End: 2:40pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire:
1. Insert Fire Hydrant Detail.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
2. You show 3/4 meter on plans and 1'' inch in the notes. Change meter size to match.
3. Your showing 1% on slope but your note says install 4'' sewer at 2%, correct note or slope.
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Luke – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning:
4. Indicate if existing buildings are to be removed or remain.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)
PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
    Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
2. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
    improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
3. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
    supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
    necessary supplies for the development.
4. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
5. Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).
6. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
7. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
8. Address any comments or conditions from City Council approval.
9. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled
10. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
4. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 1, 2024



DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MAY 23rd

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
