                           BAUM FLAG LOT CONDITIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant       Josh Baum
                         Meeting Date        May 23, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use
                         Decision Type       Administrative
                              Location       2655 North Center Street
                          Project Area       1.30 acres
                       Existing Zoning       RA-1
              General Plan Designation       Very Low Density Residential (VLDR)
                    Existing Land Use        Single Family Home
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use           North RA-1                      Single Family Homes
                                                South A-1                       Single Family Homes
                                                 East RA-1                      Single Family Homes
                                                 West A-1                       Single Family Homes
                    Date of DRC Review       May 1, 2024
                      Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                            REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission       Public hearing and final approval
                           City Council      No action required


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said
requirements and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation,
site planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and
roads, and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential
requirements and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and
    operated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.


                                                                                                                      1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest.

Section 12.210. Flag Lot Standards.
A.     Definition. A flag lot is defined as a lot in a residential zoning district that does not meet the required frontage
on a public street. A flag lot has two distinct parts: the flag, which contains the buildable area and is located behind
another lot; and the pole, which connects the flag to the street, provides the only street frontage for the lot, and contains
less than the minimum lot frontage for the zone.

B.     Purpose. Flag lots are intended to apply only to exceptionally deep or odd shaped parcels that are isolated from
public streets and would be difficult to develop or utilize in any other way. The applicant shall demonstrate that a
flag lot is the most appropriate development option and that it will not detract from the surrounding neighborhood.

C.        Minimum Requirements. A flag lot shall meet the following minimum requirements:

     1. The pole portion of the lot shall have at least 20 feet of frontage on a dedicated public street, which frontage
     serves as access only to the subject lot.

    2. The flag lot shall have a hard surfaced driveway from the public street to the required parking area for the
    flag lot with a minimum 20-foot wide drivable surface from lip of gutter to lip of gutter, per the cross section in
    this subsection (See Figure 5). Adequate provisions as determined by the City Engineer shall be made for
    drainage of the driveway such as curb and gutter, berming, swales, or underground piping. Curb and gutter shall
    be constructed in conformance with the Road-5 standard drawing in the Lehi City Design Standards and Public
    Improvements Specifications manual.
 Figure 5. Typical 20-foot flag lot driveway cross section includes a 20-foot wide drivable surface and appropriate
drainage improvements.

     3.     Not more than one flag lot shall be created from an existing lot or parcel.

     4. The remainder of the lot or parcel from which the flag lot is being divided shall maintain all of the required
     zoning standards, including frontage.

     5. A flag lot cannot be created as part of a subdivision where there are more than two lots in the subdivision or
     from an illegally divided lot.

     6.     Only one single family dwelling shall be allowed on a flag lot.

     7. The width of the pole of the flag lot shall be not less than 20 feet of drivable surface unless otherwise
     recommended by the City Engineer and Fire Marshal and approved by the Planning Commission.

     8. The pole portion shall maintain the required width for its entire length and a vertical clearance of thirteen and
     one half feet high.

     9. The single family dwelling unit shall be located within 250 feet of a fire hydrant measured along the curb
     line, in accordance with the City’s latest Design Standards and Public Improvement Specifications.

     10. The flag portion of the lot shall meet the minimum square footage and width requirements of the applicable
     zone.

     11. Front, rear, and side yard setback requirements of the flag portion of the lot shall be the same as required in
     the applicable zone.

     12. The shape of a flag lot shall be approved by the Planning Commission as part of the subdivision
     approval. Doglegs and jagged, irregular shapes may not be acceptable.

     13. The pole portion of the lot shall be part of the lot, not an access easement, and shall be designated as a public
     utility easement.

                                                                                                                           2
    14. “No parking” signs may be required on the pole portion of the lot as deemed necessary by the Planning
    Commission.

    15. The street address for the flag lot shall be clearly identified so that it is visible from the public street with
    either an address label on the mailbox or a separate address marker.

    16. All applicable street improvements including curb, gutter, and sidewalk shall be installed along the frontage
    of both the flag lot and the lot or parcel from which it is being subdivided.

    17. No accessory building shall be allowed on the flagpole portion of the lot. This subsection shall not be
    interpreted to prohibit aesthetic entry features, such as archways, decorative mailboxes, raised landscape beds, or
    similar structures.

    18. The Planning Commission may impose additional conditions on flag lots including:
        (a) location and height of the dwelling;
        (b) compatibility of the proposed project with existing conditions; and
        (c) screening and landscaping.

    19. When the flag lot area is less than 10,000 square feet, five feet of landscaping including evergreens or other
    tall shrubs that provide a visual barrier and a six-foot sight-obscuring fence shall be required along the perimeter
    of the flag lot to screen the flag lot from neighboring properties.

D.      Approval Process. The Planning Commission shall have authority to approve a flag lot as a conditional use in
accordance with the requirements of this Section and Chapter 9, Conditional Uses, of this Code. Requests for a flag
lot are also subject to the subdivision requirements and approval process as per Chapter 11, Development Application
Requirements, of this Code.



  PROPERTY HISTORY
April 14, 2986             Property came into Lehi as part of the North Annexation.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Baum Flag Lot Conditional Use located at 2655 North Center Street in the
RA-1 zone. The applicant also submitted a two-lot subdivision at the same time. The proposed lots both exceed the
minimum 15,000 square foot lot size for the RA-1 zone. The front lot also meets the 100 feet of frontage, and the
proposed stem portion of the flag lot exceeds the 20-foot-wide access requirement. All of the lot requirements for the
RA-1 zone and the flag lot requirements have been met.

The flag lot is a conditional use and reasonable conditions can be placed on the use including things such as the
orientation of the home, fencing, etc. The proposed plat does state that the house can face east or south.

The DRC reviewed the proposed flag lot and had four redline comments including:
1. Indicate if existing buildings are to be removed or remain.

Please include all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional uses are allowed uses that can have reasonable conditions put on them. This means that the Planning
Commission must approve the use unless there are legitimate concerns to the health, safety or welfare of the
community.


                                                                                                                       3
The public can speak to this item. Comments focused on potential negative impacts of the use and conditions (like
fencing) that could be put in place to mitigate the negative impacts are the most useful kind of comments.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed flag lot conditional use. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed lots meet the RA-1 zone and flag lot requirements.
2.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
3.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
4.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                     4
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 1, 2024

                            BaumHaus Estates Flag Lot Conditional Use and 2 Lot Subdivision
                                              DRC Redline Comments

Joshua Baum- requests review of the BaumHaus Estates Flag Lot Conditional Use and 2 Lot Subdivision located at 2645
North Center Street in the RA-1 zone.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Scott Carlson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 3/22/2024
Time Start: 2:33pm
Time End: 2:40pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire:
1. Insert Fire Hydrant Detail.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
2. You show 3/4 meter on plans and 1'' inch in the notes. Change meter size to match.
3. Your showing 1% on slope but your note says install 4'' sewer at 2%, correct note or slope.
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Luke – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning:
4. Indicate if existing buildings are to be removed or remain.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)
PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
    Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
2. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
    improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
3. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
    supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
    necessary supplies for the development.
4. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
5. Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).
6. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
7. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
8. Address any comments or conditions from City Council approval.
9. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled
10. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
4. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 1, 2024



DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MAY 23rd

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
