              PARKING TABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant        Lehi City Planning
                           Meeting Date         May 25, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation on proposed amendments to the Lehi City
                                                Development Code
                            Decision Type       Legislative
                      Date of DRC Review        4/17/2024

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                             City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General Plan.
In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and the City
Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties.
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  REPORT ANALYSIS
Planning Staff recommends a Development Code Amendment to Chapter 37 Table 37.080 of the Development Code.
Specifically, the proposed amendment includes the restriction of tandem parking for Short Term Rental properties.

These changes were suggested after planning staff noticed that the restriction of tandem parking was not included in Short
Term Rentals. Staff recently amended the table to restrict tandem parking in multi-family units, townhomes, and other
residential uses. This restriction has already been the standard for short-term rentals, but was forgotten in the amendment,
and thus is not explicitly stated in the code.

We believe this amendment will help clarify the interpretation of the Code by specifying the requirements for short-term
rental parking.




Parking Table Development Code Amendment
 SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Development Code Amendments are legislative items and public hearings. The public can share their opinions on the
amendments and recommend any changes. Ultimately, they would need the Planning Commission to include the
proposed changes in their motion.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendments to the Lehi
City Development Code. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and
         provisions of the General Plan and its various elements.
    2.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Parking Table Development Code Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 17, 2024

                                                      Table 37.080 Parking
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Lehi City- requests review of a Development Code Amendment to Table 37.080 Parking, updating Short Term Rental
parking requirements.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Annie
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 4/8/2024
Time Start:
Time End:

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comment
Garion – Fire: No comment
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comment
James – Parks: No comment
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comment
Shelbey – Public Works: No comment
Brad – Engineering: No comment
Luke- Traffic: No Comment
Kim – Planning:
1.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION MAY 23, 2024

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Chapter 37 Design Standards


  Retail Stores                                         1 stall for each 300 square feet of gross floor area.

  Schools – Vocational and Technical                    1 stall for each employee plus 1 stall per each 3 students at
                                                        maximum capacity.

  Short Term Rentals                                    1 stall per bedroom, not in tandem configuration.

  Sports Fields, Sporting Facilities, Arenas            1 stall for every 3 seats at maximum capacity or as approved
                                                        by the Planning Commission.

  Theaters, Sports Arenas, Public Assembly Areas        1 stall for each 3 seats at the maximum seating capacity or as
                                                        approved by the Planning Commission.

  Other non-residential uses not otherwise listed       1 stall per each 500 square feet of gross floor area or as
                                                        approved by the Planning Commission.

  MIXED USES

  Mixed Use – Residential/Commercial                    Required parking based on total of combined uses with up to
                                                        30% reduction upon Planning Commission approval and a
                                                        recommendation by a licensed traffic engineer. In cases with
                                                        more than one owner or where uses exist with different peak
                                                        use periods, a shared parking agreement may be required.

  Transit Oriented Development – As defined by          Required parking based on total of combined uses with up to
  Chapter 38 of the Development Code                    50% reduction upon Planning Commission approval and a
                                                        recommendation by a licensed traffic engineer. In cases with
                                                        more than one owner or where uses exist with different peak
                                                        use periods, a shared parking agreement may be required.




                                               37-111 Off-Street Parking
