                      EXCHANGE BUSINESS PARK CONCEPT PLAN
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant          Boyd Brown
                          Meeting Date           May 23, 2024
              Requested Action/Purpose           Public hearing, review, and consideration of proposed concept plan
                         Decision Type           Administrative
                               Location          Approximately 1500 North 3600 West
                           Project Area          3.65 acres
                        Existing Zoning          Neighborhood Commercial and R-3
      General Plan Land Use Designation          Neighborhood Commercial
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use               North R-3                 Exchange neighborhood park
                                                    South R-3                 Exchange Phase 1
                                                     East Public Facility Future high school
                                                     West R-3                 The Exchange PUD
                       Date of DRC Review        May 1, 2024
                         Assigned Planner        Katie Bussell

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission         Review and recommendation
                             City Council        Final Approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.

Section 37.010. Chapter 37 Design Standards – Nonresidential
        a. Architectural standards:
             i. Street facades:
                       a. The facade facing the street frontage shall include large clear glass windows on the street
                            level and smaller windows may be allowed on the upper floors. Opaque, heavily tinted, or
                            reflective glass is inappropriate at the street level, and shall not be used on the first floor of
                            a building facing the street (see Figure 117). When glass is tinted, it shall allow for a
                            minimum 60 percent light to pass through the window into the building.
                       b. A minimum of 20 percent of the facade area on the first floor facing the street shall consist
                            of glass. Where a building is located on a corner lot of two local streets, a minimum of 20
                            percent of each facade on the first floor shall consist of glass.

              ii. Building materials:
                        a. Brick, stone, split face CMU, tilt-up concrete, architectural grade metal (see Figures 126
                            and 127), fiber cement, and wood may be used for exterior materials.
                        b. Stucco and EIFS may be used up to 40 percent of each wall area excluding windows and
                            doors as a secondary material only. Stucco and EIFS shall not be used on hierarchal
                            architectural features, pop-outs in a facade, or for wainscots, but shall be allowed on




Exchange Business Park Concept Plan
                                recessed wall areas, walls between entrances, and between hierarchal architectural features
                                (see Figure 128).

         b.      Site design standards:
               i. Building orientation
                            a. Buildings shall be oriented toward the adjacent public or private street with no off-street
                                 parking or drive aisles located between the building and street sidewalk (see Figure 131).
                            b. Buildings located on corner lots shall be oriented to both streets with no parking located
                                 between the building and the sidewalk of either street.
                            c. Buildings on properties with more than two street frontages shall be placed on the corner
                                 most conducive to pedestrian travel. An area with a higher expected rate of pedestrian
                                 traffic could be toward a transit stop or across the street from a complimentary use such as
                                 an office building across the street from a restaurant.

    2.   Exceptions:

    Exceptions to Section 37.010 may be approved by the Planning Commission provided the following:

               i. The applicant shall provide evidence that the exception to the design standards improves the design
                  quality, walkability/bike-ability, or ability conduct the proposed use on the subject property, as
                  determined by the Planning Commission.

              ii. The applicant shall provide justification on how the proposed project fits in with the purpose and vision
                  of the design standards district in which it is located.

           iii. Exceptions may be granted to allow parking between the building and street, however in the Historic,
                Roller Mills, Urban Village, Mill Pond and Urban Tech Mixed Use Districts, any exception shall be
                limited to a maximum of one module of parking. In all cases where an exception is granted to allow
                parking between the building and the street, an ADA compliant pedestrian access shall be
                accommodated from the building entrance to the street sidewalk.

              iv. Buildings located on corner lots shall only be allowed an exception to the building orientation on one
                  side of the building with the other side of the building maintaining no parking between the building and
                  the street within the Historic, Roller Mills, Urban Village, Mill Pond, and Urban Tech Mixed Use
                  Districts.

The Neighborhood Commercial (NC) District is created to provide an area where goods and services are available in
close proximity or adjacent to residential areas. The purpose of this zone is to allow for the development of smaller-scale
retail and service-oriented businesses that are compatible with the adjacent neighborhoods. Developments within this
zone should be designed for a sensitive transition between the Neighborhood Commercial uses and surrounding
residential uses. In order to prevent disturbance to neighboring residential areas, businesses operating hours shall be
between the hours of 6 AM and 11 PM Sunday through Thursday and 6 AM to 12 AM Friday and Saturday. Structures
in this zone are limited in size to a 5,000 square foot footprint unless otherwise approved by the Planning Commission
based on a determination that the building meets the intent of this zone.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and approval of the Exchange Business Park concept plan, requesting exceptions to
the Development Code. This will be a multi-building project that will aim to create a neighborhood commercial
center for the Exchange subdivision. The specific exceptions being requested are to the 5,000 square foot building
footprint size for the Neighborhood Commercial zone, and an exception to have parking between the street and the
building for one of the buildings. This report will outline the site layout, the requested exceptions, and the DRC
comments.




Exchange Business Park Concept Plan
Site Layout
The site covers 3.65 acres of land in the Exchange subdivision off 3600 West. The overall site is bisected by 1500
North that splits the project into a north and south portion. The south portion requires a zone change from R-3 to
Neighborhood Commercial, and an application has been submitted for this piece. There are three buildings proposed
on the south portion, and all front onto 3600 West. The north portion is 2.46 acres and is shown to have five buildings
total. The north portion has overhead powerlines running over the site, which causes issues when placing the
buildings.

Connections to the existing Exchange subdivision to the west have been provided. A street connection through 1480
North and 1650 North are shown on the plan, while the connection to 1530 North is planned to be a pedestrian only
connection. Sidewalk connections to the Exchange have been provided in addition to connections to the master
planned trail along 3600 West. There are two vehicular entrances to each portion off of 1500 North, and one right-
in, right-out access on 3600 West.

Exceptions
There are some exceptions the applicant is requesting. First, some of the buildings exceed the 5,000 square foot
building footprint limit as dictated by the Neighborhood Commercial zone. One building on the south portion exceeds
5,000 square feet, as do two on the north portion. The applicant has stated that this is to increase the viability of the
site and the tenants they attract. Staff is supportive of increasing the square footages of these buildings because of
the architectural renderings the applicant has provided. The architectural facades appear to be high quality and will
create a more appealing development, which will aid in attracting neighborhood-oriented uses.

The second exception being, as mentioned previously, is to place some parking between the buildings and the street
on 3600 West. This is because the powerlines run over the property, and no permanent structures can be placed
beneath the powerlines. Granting this exception would maximize the use of the site.

DRC Comments
There were 19 comments from the DRC, however many of these were informational to the applicant for what is
required for a site plan submission. The DRC comments related to this concept include:

1. Connect existing Exchange sidewalks to this development.
2. Update narrative to include request for exception to 5,000 square foot building footprint in Neighborhood
    Commercial zone.
3. The access onto 3600 West, a major arterial, will not be allowed. An exception to have right-in, right-out could
    be approved by the City Engineer.
4. Minimum commercial access spacing on 1500 North, a Major Collector, is 250’ measured centerline to
    centerline. Engineering can consider granting a variance if the accesses are moved as far as possible from 3600
    West.



  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a concept plan this is an administrative item. If it meets the Code it must be approved. The applicant asks for
exceptions to the Chapter 37 Nonresidential Design Standards, including an exception to allow parking between the
building and the street, and to exceed the 5,000 square foot building footprint limit in the Neighborhood Commercial
zone. The Planning Commission has some level of discretion to grant these exceptions.

This is a public hearing item. Comments focused on specific concerns and ways to mitigate them are the most
beneficial. The public should also be aware that the Planning Commission can only require those items listed in the
Development Code.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve, approve with modifications, or deny the proposed concept plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:




Exchange Business Park Concept Plan
    1. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
    2. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Exchange Business Park Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 5, 2024

                                             Exchange Business Park Concept Plan
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Boyd Brown- requests review of the Exchange Business Park Concept Plan, an 8-lot commercial development located at
approximately 1500 North 3600 West.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Boyd Brown, Brooke Moore, Jake Hone
Date of Plans Reviewed: 4/23/2024
Time Start: 2:00 PM
Time End: 2:30 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Show service location and label service with main breaker size
2. Show PU&RCE on Site and Utility plans at site plan submittal
3. Need to provide transformer location that will be in conformance with NFPA and Lehi Power specifications
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks:
4. If this project moves past concept, a complete landscape and irrigation plan will be required. Also, the following
    requirements will apply:
    -30 trees per site acre
    -50% plant coverage at maturity.
    - 10% minimum site landscaping
Gary – Building/Inspections:
5. Soil report required if this moves past concept.
Shelbey – Public Works:
6. 80th percentile retention will be required at site plan
7. SWPPP will be required prior to precon
8. SSOMP will be required prior to precon
Brad – Engineering: No comments.
Luke- Traffic:
9. The access onto 3600 W, a Major Arterial, will not be allowed. An exception to have right-in, right-out could be
    approved by the City Engineer.
10. Minimum commercial access spacing on 1500 N, a Major Collector, is 250' measured centerline to centerline.
    Engineering can consider granting a variance if the accesses are moved as far as possible from 3600 W.
11. A traffic impact study will be required if this moves past concept, unless it has been included in a previous study. See
    Lehi City Design Standard section 2.05 for traffic study requirements. Also, have your traffic engineer contact me
    before starting so we can be sure to be on the same page.
Kim – Planning:
12. Zone change for south piece required prior to submitting a site plan.
13. Exception to have parking between the street and the building required.
14. Connect existing Exchange sidewalks to this development.
15. 6-foot sight-obscuring fence required between residential and non-residential developments, in addition to 12 foot
    landscaping buffer.
16. Update narrative to include request for exception to 5,000 square foot building footprint in neighborhood commercial
    zone.
17. Include types of building materials and percentages at site plan. Stucco and EIFS may be used up to 40% of each wall
    area as a secondary material only.
18. Bike parking shall be required at site plan.
19. 3600 West has a master planned trail along this frontage, and a 10' asphalt trail needs to be shown here.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 5, 2024

20. At the time of site plan, the ADA ramp on the NW corner of 1500 N and 3600 W needs to match the width of the trail
    (10').
21. Show a bike connection between 530 N and the parking area. We can consider ending this street for vehicle access, but
    bike and ped access should be maintained.
22. Show sidewalks connecting to 1500 N on both the north and south sides.
23. Consider rearranging the parking lot to add a direct sidewalk connection between Building B3 and C1. Currently, it is
    more difficult to walk between these groups of buildings.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MAY 23RD.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
                         Narrative for the Exchange Business Park

The Exchange Business Park is a Neighborhood Commercial Development just off of 1500 N
3600 W in Lehi that will bring a mix of retail and office uses. Our intention is to attract services
and users to support the residential doors that surround the area.

The proposed building materials we envision are hardie lap siding, stucco, and brick. Please
see renderings.

Proposed CC&R’s would be established to create architectural control to maintain the same
quality of design.

Proposed amenities to include a trail throughout the business park that creates walkable access
from the Exchange residents and encourages pedestrians and bike from surrounding areas that
ties into the River Park.
