                           SKYE PLAT C PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
                                      PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                 Applicant       DR Horton
                             Meeting Date        May 23, 2024
                  Requested Action/Purpose       Public hearing, review, and recommendation for a proposed preliminary
                                                 subdivision
                             Decision Type       Administrative
                                  Location       Approximately Highland Boulevard and Isle of the Skye Way
         Existing General Plan Designation       Very Low Density Residential, Low Density Residential, Medium
                                                 Density Residential, Public Facility and Open Space
                            Existing Zoning      Planned Community
                         Existing Land Use       Undeveloped
                       Number of Lots/Units      369 Single Family Homes and 228 Twin Homes
              Adjacent Zoning and Land Use          North PC                        Future Skye
                                                    South PC/PF                     Texas Instruments Buffer
                                                      East Highland                 Residential
                                                     West PC                        Texas Instruments Buffer
                        Date of DRC Review       May 1, 2024
                          Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                                REQUIRED ACTION
                       Planning Commission       Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                               City Council      Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has been
approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.

Section 37.040. Connectivity Standards.

    1. Maximum Block Lengths. Maximum block lengths allowed shall be required based on the project density as identified
    on the following table of maximum block lengths:

                    Density                                             Block Length
                 0-2.5 DU/AC                            1,000 ft. street and pedestrian block length
                 2.6-4 DU/AC                             800 ft. street and pedestrian block length
                 4.1-6 DU/AC                             600 ft. street and pedestrian block length
                 6.1+ DU/AC                   600 ft. street block length and 400 ft. pedestrian block length

         a.    Increase in Block Length. The maximum allowed block length may be increased if the applicant provides clear
               and convincing evidence that it is impracticable to achieve due to:

                i. road grades that exceed ten percent;

               ii. Jordan River;




Skye Plat C Preliminary Subdivision
              iii. Utah Lake;

                iv. delineated wetlands;

                v. other significant natural and historic features such as Dry Creek or the Waste Ditch drainage channel;

                vi. existing adjacent development;

             vii. rail corridors; or

             viii. limited access roadways.

A. Pedestrian Connectivity Standards. All residential and non-residential developments and subdivisions shall meet the
following standards:

    1. Pedestrian connections shall be utilized to connect proposed developments to master planned trails and adjacent
    existing or future developments where applicable. Connections shall be of a hard surface with a minimum width of ten
    feet including landscaped shoulders on each side of at least five feet in width. Trail access spacing shall not exceed 600
    feet.

    2. Sidewalks and trails shall interconnect all units, buildings, and streets within a development, and shall provide
    connectivity to existing adjacent development or future development areas.



  PROPERTY HISTORY

December 11, 2012            City Council approved the Micron Area Plan

April 8, 2022                This property came into Lehi as the Micron East Annexation

August 23, 2022              City Council approved the Skye Area Plan amending the Micron Area Plan

September 19, 2023           City Council approved the Skye Area Plan Second Amendment


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of the proposed Skye Plat C Preliminary Subdivision including 369
single family lots and 228 twin homes located at approximately Highland Boulevard and Isle of the Skye Way. It also
includes several open space corridors with trails, a civic site for a future church building, and a spot for a future clubhouse.

The proposed subdivision meets the requirements of the Area Plan and the Development Code but needs an exception for
the block length.

Staff recommended that the applicant look into more pedestrian connections to meet the connectivity to master planned
trails requirement which would also reduce the pedestrian block length as required by the connectivity standards. All of
the roads in this subdivision do not meet the connectivity requirements. However, significant grade exists in this area
making road connections difficult. The Planning Commission should consider whether an exception to the block length
should be granted based on grade.

Staff also indicated several places trails should continue or additional trail connections should be made.




Skye Plat C Preliminary Subdivision
The DRC had 11 redline comments including:

1.    It would be nice to add trail connections to trail 8 at the midway point from isle of the skye way and glasgow drive.
2.    Maximum block length is exceeded on several of these blocks. An exception can be made based on grade. Please
      provide a short written justification for needing the longer block length. Also see if pedestrian connections can be
      provided mid block.
3.    Show curb extensions at trail crossings
4.    Our requirement is to add trail connections with a max spacing of 600'. I think these connections would be required as
      well as some of the others suggested on here.
5.    Show trail connections to the cul-de-sacs with bike ramps to the street. At the time of final plats, show directional ADA
      tiles for these ramps.
6.    I have concerns with putting these trails integral to the perpendicular parking. It doesn't maintain the minimum 2' clear
      area, and cars will likely overhang the trail and reduce its effective width. The trail along the open space seems to have
      plenty of room to provide buffering from the parking areas.

Please consider including all DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Subdivisions are an administrative item. This means if they meet the Code requirements the Planning Commission and
City Council must approve them. The applicant does request an exception based on grade which the Planning Commission
may grant or deny. Whatever motion they make must include findings or reasons.

Residents can give comments on this item. However, they should realize that the Planning Commission may only require
things that are in the Code. Residents can bring up concerns and solutions recognizing that the applicant can choose to
implement or not implement the feedback.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed preliminary subdivision. Any
motion should include findings. Possible findings include:


      1.   The proposed subdivision has significant grade that justifies an exception to the connectivity standards./ The
           grade of the proposed subdivision does not justify an exception to the connectivity standards.
      2.   The proposed subdivision meets the requirements of the Skye Area Plan.
      3.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in regards
           to subdivision approvals.
      4.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Skye Plat C Preliminary Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 1, 2024

                                                     Skye Preliminary Plat C
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

DR Horton- requests review of Skye Preliminary Plat C located at approximately Highland Boulevard and Isle of the Skye
Way including 369 single family and 228 twin homes units.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Scott Bishop, Jeff Stephenson, and Ben Tuckett
Date of Plans Reviewed: 4/23/2024
Time Start: 2:55pm
Time End: 3:24pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Indicate correct easement width on sheets 103-106.
2. PRV(s) in conflict with power locations- main feeders.
For construction of buildings near the RMP transmission line, reference and comply with 29 CFR 1926.1408
Garion – Fire:
I would highly recommend keeping the private road width to 26' or less. Roads greater than 26' and less than 32' only allow
on street parking on one side. If 26' roads remain you will be expected to determine which side will allow for on-street
parking and you will need to sign the other side.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks:
3. Connect trail all the way to Isle of the Skye Way to the south.
Gary – Building/Inspections:
4. Soils report is needed for this area.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad/Luke – Engineering:
5. See curb extension details shown on Cover sheet for all curb extensions at trail crossings
Kim – Planning:
6. It would be nice to add trail connections to trail 8 at the midway point from isle of the skye way and glasgow drive.
7. Maximum block length is exceeded on several of these blocks. An exception can be made based on grade. Please
     provide a short written justification for needing the longer block length. Also see if pedestrian connections can be
     provided mid block.
8. Show curb extensions at trail crossings
9. Our requirement is to add trail connections with a max spacing of 600'. I think these connections would be required as
     well as some of the others suggested on here.
10. Show trail connections to the cul-de-sacs with bike ramps to the street. At the time of final plats, show directional ADA
     tiles for these ramps.
11. I have concerns with putting these trails integral to the perpendicular parking. It doesn't maintain the minimum 2' clear
     area, and cars will likely overhang the trail and reduce its effective width. The trail along the open space seems to have
     plenty of room to provide buffering from the parking areas.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)
PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
2. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
   must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
3. Reimbursement Agreement for any reimbursable improvement items must be in place.
4. Required water dedication must be completed.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 1, 2024

5.  Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
    process.
6. Provide a title report to be reviewed by Staff.
7. Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
    property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.
8. Warranty deed/title insurance (open space, detention, City park property, City trails, some road dedication). Title
    insurance policies on each to be obtained through Marnae at Fidelity National Title Agency 801-610-1670.
9. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
10. New property line adjacent to existing roads must be staked and reviewed by the City.
11. Provide signed easement verification sheet.
12. Need Irrigation Company signature on the construction drawings for the irrigation piping.
13. Off-site easements (turnarounds, utilities, power, etc).
14. Provide a copy of any necessary boundary line agreement(s).
15. Provide required licenses (railroad, UDOT, UTA, aqueduct, canal, etc).
16. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
    Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com).
17. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
18. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
    Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
    agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
19. Provide approval letter from the State (UDEQ) for Class V UIC Injection Well.
20. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
21. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
22. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
23. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 1, 2024




THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MAY 23rd.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                3 of 3
                                                                                                   April 23, 2024

                                  Skye Area Plan Preliminary Plat C
Preliminary Plat C includes the remaining 597 residential lots and 1 civic lot on the far east of Skye . It also
completes the connection of the water and power infrastructure from the Low Hills Booster to the Skye
culinary tank and the Skye PI pond as well as the Lehi Power Skye substation.
