          CHAPTER 23- SIGNS DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant        Planning Department
                           Meeting Date         May 23, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation on proposed amendments to the Lehi City
                                                Development Code
                            Decision Type       Legislative
                      Date of DRC Review        March 6, 2024

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                             City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General Plan.
In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and the City
Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties.
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

Staff recommends a Development Code Amendment to Chapter 23 Section 23.070 of the Development Code. Specifically,
the proposed amendment includes the addition of an address sign exemption.

These changes were suggested as planning staff recently noticed that address signs are not defined or included in Chapter
23. These address numbers are wayfinding and directional. Address signs help visitors and residents navigate unfamiliar
areas. The decision was made to exclude these signs from review, on the condition that they are less than six square feet,
otherwise they must be included with the calculations for wall signs.

We believe this will help clarify the interpretation of the Code by specifying the requirements for address signs. DRC
comments included suggestions of additional wording and specifically adding public safety signs to the exemption list.
Both recommendations were accepted and adjusted.




Chapter 23 Development Code Amendment
 SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Development Code Amendments are legislative items and also public hearings. The public can share their opinions
on the amendments and recommend any changes. Ultimately, they would need the Planning Commission to include
the proposed changes in their motion.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendments to the Lehi
City Development Code. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and
         provisions of the General Plan and its various elements.
    2.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Chapter 23 Development Code Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          March 6, 2024

                                                 Chapter 23, Signs Amendment
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Lehi City- requests review of an amendment to the Lehi City Development Code Chapter 23, Signs to include property
address signs as being exempt from the sign regulations.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Annie
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 2/23/2024
Time Start:
Time End:

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire:
1. Include any signs required for public safety
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
2. Add building address and other grammatical changes shown in the Bluebeam session


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 28, 2024




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
 Community Development Department –
 Planning Division

 153 North 100 East
 Lehi, UT 84043
 Office 385.201.1030
 lehi-ut.gov




February 23, 2024

Narrative – Section 23.070 Development Code Amendment

The Planning Division is proposing a Development Code Amendment to Chapter 23 Section
23.070 of the Development Code. Specifically, we are proposing the addition of an address sign
exemption.

Planning Staff has recently noticed that address signs are not defined or included in the signage
Chapter 23. These address numbers are wayfinding and directional. Address signs help visitors
and residents navigate unfamiliar areas. The decision was made to exclude these signs from
review, on the condition that they are less than 5% of the total wall area.

We believe this will help clarify the interpretation of the Code by specifying the requirements for
address signs.

Please contact the Planning Division if you have any questions.

Thank you,

Annalisa Reed
Planning Intern
Section 23.050. General Sign Requirements.

    A. All signs shall be constructed, mounted, and attached in a safe and secure manner in accordance with the
       International Building Code.

    B. No sign shall be placed or maintained in the City except as provided in this chapter.

    C. No signs other than public or quasi-public signs shall be placed within or extend into public rights-of-way,
       or be placed on semaphore poles, utility poles, or over public property, except as otherwise provided in this
       chapter.

    D. Signs shall not be placed on public street trees.

    E. No sign over three feet in height shall be allowed in a clear view area at the intersection of streets.

    F.   Signs shall not be located in a public utility easement unless a determination is first made by the Reviewing
         Departments that sign placement in the easement can be done in a way that affords adequate access to the
         utilities within the easement. If a sign is proposed to be placed in a public utility easement, the applicant
         shall provide a written, notarized certification stating the applicant shall be responsible for any costs
         associated with moving the sign if utility work necessitates moving the sign. No sign shall be placed over
         an existing public utility.

    G. Every sign erected or proposed to be erected shall be classified by the Zoning Administrator in accordance
       with the descriptions contained in this chapter. Any sign that does not clearly fall into one of the
       classifications shall be placed in the classification which, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator, is the
       most closely related. The
       Zoning Administrator’s decision shall be based on the design and location of the sign.

    H. All signs placed contrary to the provisions of this chapter are declared to be nonconforming and, as such,
       may be dealt with or removed as provided in this chapter.

    I.   Any sign that poses an immediate public safety hazard may be removed as specified in this chapter.

    J.   Signs shall be allowed on private property only with the property owner’s written permission, in addition to
         meeting the other requirements of this chapter.

Section 23.060. Permit Required.
Except as otherwise specified in this chapter, the owner of each sign shall apply for and receive a sign permit from
the City prior to commencing construction for a sign, erecting a new sign, or modifying an existing sign.


Section 23.070. Exemptions.
The following shall be exempt from the permitting regulations of this chapter:
    A. decals or logos affixed to windows or door panels;

    B. flags;

    C. individual pennants not on a string;

    D. disabled parking space signs not exceeding two square feet reserving parking for disabled individuals;

                                                           23-6
         E. holiday decorations associated with any generally recognized national, local, or religious holiday;

         F.   illuminated building accents and decorations;

         G. painted or applied wall accents and decorations;

         H. wayfinding on-premises signs not exceeding two square feet in area, limited to two per driveway entrance;

         I.   public or quasi-public street signs (including public safety signs), and on-premises signs erected by civic
              institutions;

         J.   public art, including original art displays;

         K. security and warning signs regulating the use of premises, not exceeding one sign two square feet in area in
            residential areas and one sign five square feet in area in commercial and industrial zones, but these number
            and size limitations shall not apply to the posting of conventional “no trespassing” signs in accordance with
            state law;

         L. signs inside a building;

         M. signs carved into a building or raised in integral relief on a building, which are a physical part of the
            building façade and part of the physical construction of the building materials comprising the façade, but
            not including letters or signs that are merely attached to the exterior façade of the building, even if of the
            same finish or color as the building;

         N. signs required by federal, state, or City law;

         N.O.          building address signs which are less than six square feet; address wall signs that are not exempt
            shall fall under requirements for wall signs;

         O.P. signs not visible from a public right-of-way; and

         P.Q.temporary signs of two square feet and under, except temporary signs prohibited by other sections of this
             chapter.


     Section 23.080. Sign Approvals. (Amended 01/11/22; 07/12/22)
a.   Signs Approved by the Zoning Administrator. Unless otherwise stated in this chapter, the following signs in non-
     residential zoning districts may be approved by the Zoning Administrator provided a complete sign permit
     application has been submitted and the signs otherwise meet the requirements of this chapter:

          i. awning signs;

         ii. canopy signs;

        iii. drive-thru signs;

         iv. electronic display signs where the electronic display portion is fifty square feet or less;

         v. monument signs;
                                                                  23-7
Other Cities Address Sign Code:
Provo:
Businesses- “One (1) identification sign displaying the name and address only may be installed-
such sign shall not exceed 64 square feet.”
Residential- “Signs or name plates not exceeding two (2) square feet in area and displaying only
the name and address of the occupant;”


Spanish Fork:
Does not mention address signs.

   1. “ A primary wall sign may not occupy more than 15% of the flat wall area of the primary
      elevation.
   2. Secondary wall signs are allowed provided they do not exceed five (5) percent of that wall
      area.”

American Fork:
No maximum- only a minimum (3 inches in height).

   1. “It shall be the duty of each owner of a building, dwelling, or premises, to display the street
      number of the building in a conspicuous place, in such a way as to be clearly visible from
      the street.
   2. It is unlawful to cover, conceal, or allow the numbers to be obstructed from plain sight.
   3. The numerals shall be no less than three (3) inches in height and shall be in contrast to the
      immediate background color on which they are mounted.
   4. This chapter does not apply to farm structures or buildings, accessory buildings, or
      unoccupied lots.”



Draper City:
Address signs are listed under signs not requiring a permit, they cannot exceed 2 square feet.
“On premises street address identification cannot exceed two (2) square feet in area and is
limited to one such sign per use or building.”


Farmington:
No specific size found- “All business and residential locations shall be identified by a
street address number, affixed to the main building, which is clearly visible from the public street.
West Jordan:
Address signs not specifically mentioned, perhaps they would fall under noncommercial signs in
the exempt section.
“Noncommercial Signs:
   1. Noncommercial signs, not exceeding eight (8) square feet in size, located on private
      property with the owner's permission.”


Saratoga Springs:
Signage on a Single-Family Lot- Permanent Signs no more than 6 square feet in size.
 “A single-family residence is permitted one sign limited to six square feet in size. Residential
signs may be freestanding or mounted to a structure, and shall be located entirely upon the lot or
parcel. Building mounted signs shall be placed no higher than fifteen feet or at the top of the first
floor, whichever is lower; all other signs shall be a maximum of four feet in height”
Multi-family Signage- no more than 10 percent of area
“Size. The maximum permitted area shall be ten percent of the area of the elevation upon which
the sign is mounted.”


Eagle Mountain:
Under exempt signs, nameplate smaller than 2 square feet-for residential. “Nameplate Signs. One
nameplate sign identifying owners and addresses and no larger than two square feet of sign copy
per side if double-faced.”


Pleasant Grove:
Listed under signs exempt from review, no more than 2 square feet.
 “G. Nameplate: One sign identifying the owner, occupant, address or home occupation, no
larger than two (2) square feet in area, and must be attached to the building. Nameplate signs
used in the form of a monument type sign, and may be no larger than four (4) square feet in area,
and must be located a minimum distance of three feet (3') from the property line.”
