                      EXCHANGE BUSINESS PARK ZONE CHANGE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        Boyd Brown
                                  Meeting Date         June 13th, 2024
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                       change
                                 Decision Type         Legislative
                                      Location         Approximately 1500 North 3600 West
                                       Acreage         1.19 acres
                               Existing Zoning         R-3
    Existing General Plan Land Use Designation         Neighborhood Commercial (NC)
                  Proposed Zoning Designation          Neighborhood Commercial
                             Existing Land Use         Vacant
                Adjacent Zoning and Land Use           North Neighborhood Future Exchange Business Park
                                                                Commercial
                                                        South R-3                 Gardner Point Phase 1 Townhomes
                                                         East R-3                 Gardner Point Phase 1 Townhomes
                                                         West Public Facility Fire Station 84
                              Date of DRC Review       May 22nd, 2024
                                Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should
consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.

The Neighborhood Commercial (NC) District is created to provide an area where goods and services are available in
close proximity or adjacent to residential areas. The purpose of this zone is to allow for the development of smaller-scale
retail and service-oriented businesses that are compatible with the adjacent neighborhoods. Developments within this
zone should be designed for a sensitive transition between the Neighborhood Commercial uses and surrounding residential
uses. In order to prevent disturbance to neighboring residential areas, businesses operating hours shall be between the
hours of 6 AM and 11 PM Sunday through Thursday and 6 AM to 12 AM Friday and Saturday. Structures in this zone



Exchange Business Park Zone Change
are limited in size to a 5,000 square foot footprint unless otherwise approved by the Planning Commission based on a
determination that the building meets the intent of this zone.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES




  PROPERTY HISTORY

October 26, 2021           Property recorded as part of the Gardner Point Phase 1 Plat.

May 23rd, 2024             Property was considered and approved by the Lehi City Planning Commission as part of
                           the Exchange Business Park Concept Plan.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from R-3 to Neighborhood Com-
mercial (NC) on 1.19 acres located at approximately 1500 North 3600 West. The zone change is consistent with the
General Plan. The intent of the Neighborhood Commercial zone is to encourage development of smaller-scale retail
and service-oriented businesses that are compatible with adjacent neighborhoods. This zone change is to help facili-
tate the construction of the Exchange Business Park, a neighborhood-oriented development that was approved for
conceptual approval by the Planning Commission on May 23rd, 2024.

There were two comments from the DRC, including:
1. Add a note that the proposed zone is Neighborhood Commercial
2. Add a note that this proposed zone change matches the General Plan Designation of Neighborhood Commercial.

These comments were in regards to the narrative submitted by the applicant, and have since been updated.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative decisions. However, zone changes that meet the General Plan must be approved unless
strong reasons are provided for the detriment that the zone change would cause to the City.

The Public can comment on zone changes but should understand that this proposed zone change meets the General
Plan so significant reasons would need to be provided to deny the proposed zone change.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:




Exchange Business Park Zone Change
   1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
   2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
   3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
        properties;
   4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
        by the General Plan;
   5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
        uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
   6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Exchange Business Park Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 22, 2024

                                     Exchange Business Park Commercial Zone Change
                                                DRC Redline Comments

Boyd Brown- requests review of the Exchange Business Park Zone Change from R-3 to Neighborhood Commercial on 1-
acre located at 1500 North 3600 West.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, Trent Dyer
Assigned Planner: Katie
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Boyd Brown, Brooke Moore, Jake Hone
Date of Plans Reviewed: 5/9/2024
Time Start: 1:15 PM
Time End: 1:17 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
Trent – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Add note that proposed zone is NC (neighborhood commercial)
2. Add note that this proposed zone change matches the General Plan Designation of Neighborhood Commercial.


Consistency with the elements of the Lehi City General Plan.

This area has a proposed Neighborhood Commercial on the General Plan.

Effect of the proposed amendment on the existing goals, objectives, and policies of the Lehi City General Plan.

From the Lehi City General Plan Land Use Element the following goals and policies related to development should be
considered:

    1.   Maximize opportunities to create an overall pattern of planned and orderly development with a system of land uses,
         adequately and efficiently served by a balanced and energy-efficient system of transportation, and community
         services that are sensitive to the natural physical qualities of the area.

    2.   Provide diverse economic and employment opportunities and encourage multiple scales of commercial development
         to serve the needs of the region, the community, and individual neighborhoods.

    3. Promote variety in commercial spaces, densities, and locations.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEUDLED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JUNE 13TH.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Rezone Narrative

This proposed zone is NC Neighborhood Commercial and matches the General Plan
Designation of Neighborhood Commercial. The zone change is needed because the lots are
planned to be neighborhood commercial along 3600 W and will bring retail users to service the
surrounding residential communities.
The zone change won’t be detrimental to the surrounding areas, it will be a very beneficial
commercial aspect. We plan to include a trail throughout the business park that creates
walkable access from the Exchange residents and encourages pedestrians and bike from
surrounding areas that ties into the River Park.
