                 THANKSGIVING POINT AREA PLAN AMENDMENT
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant       Mike Ballard
                            Meeting Date       July 11th, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose       Review and recommendation of a proposed area plan amendment
                           Decision Type       Legislative
                    Date of DRC Review         July 3, 2024
                        Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                            City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Chapter 6 of the Development Code contains all of the regulations and standards that govern the creation of Planned
Communities. Included below are some of the sections that contain general information that may be helpful to the
Planning Commission in their review of the Thanksgiving Point Area Plan amendment.

Section 06.010 Purpose and Intent.
The intent of the Planned Community Zone and this Chapter is to:

A. Allow the City to encourage and facilitate more detailed and specific planning and analysis for certain areas of
   the City.
B. Establish provisions and requirements which enable the City to address unique areas of the City or where other
   characteristics exist that warrant a comprehensive set of land use policies and standards which will encourage
   an efficient and imaginative development pattern.
C. Provide an opportunity for flexibility from the constraints of traditional zoning and allow for development on a
   performance basis. Higher density and intensity of uses may be achieved as higher quality development and
   performance standards are implemented within the zone.
D. Provide a consolidated and structured framework for the processing of preliminary and final subdivision
   plat(s), preliminary and final site plans, and other permits and licenses required by this Code.

An application for approval of a Planned Community Zone is a request by the applicant for additional flexibility
beyond that allowed by the traditional zones within the City. It is the sole responsibility and burden of the
applicant to convince the Planning Commission and City Council that the proposed Planned Community Zone is
preferable to traditional zoning. Approval for use of the Planned Community Zone lies at the discretion of the City
Council.

Section 06.020 Planned Community Description.
Each Planned Community Zone should include a cohesive mixture of land uses, including commercial and/or
business park uses, which will provide services and employment opportunities to residents within the community.
Residential uses should provide a range of housing types and densities to accommodate a variety of age and income
groups and residential preferences, so that the community’s demographic diversity is maintained. Commercial uses
should focus on retail services for the residents of the community and must include a unifying design theme which
compliments the residential areas. Residential and commercial land uses should be integrated to promote a walkable,
sustainable community.
Development should promote creative lot configuration with usable public and private recreation areas, parks, trails
and open space with assurance of maintenance. Preservation of open space and critical environmental areas is also
highly encouraged through the use of clustering and other innovative development options where a standard lot
pattern is not practical or desirable due to physical constraints.




Thanksgiving Point Area Plan Amendment
Section 06.030 Design Compatibility.
Development within a Planned Community Zone should promote attractive, unified architectural design.
Development should be planned as one complex land use with a common architectural design theme that provides
variety within a context of architectural compatibility, rather than an aggregation of individual, unrelated buildings
located on separate, unrelated lots. In order to ensure that development within the Planned Community Zone is
compatible and meets the purposes of this Chapter, the Planning Commission may recommend and the City Council
may require that certain design guidelines be employed as part of the approval of an Area Plan for a PC Zone. The
design guidelines may include, but are not limited to, architectural controls, colors, materials, building mass,
innovative design of buildings and access, and any other features deemed appropriate by the City Council. As part
of the design guidelines for any Planned Community Zone each single family detached or attached dwelling shall
include, as a minimum standard, an enclosed one (1) car garage.

  PROPERTY HISTORY

April 16, 1999             The property was recorded as part of the West Annexation.

December 14, 1999          The Thanksgiving Point Area Plan was approved.

February 8, 2001           The Thanksgiving Point Area Plan was amended and approved by Planning
                           Commission to extend the areas covered in the plan.

May 23, 2002               The Thanksgiving Point Area Plan was amended and approved by Planning
                           Commission to conform to requirements of the Resort Community zone.

July 10, 2003              The Thanksgiving Point Area Plan was amended and approved by Planning
                           Commission to allow residential development within the plan.
December 14, 2021          The City Council denied a concept plan submittal for this property with 5,398 new housing
                           units

March 10, 2022             The City Council approved a concept plan submittal for this property with 2,000 new
                           dwelling units.

January 10, 2023           The City Council approved the Thanksgiving Point Station Area Plan Concept from UTA
                           that moves 200 of the 2,000 dwelling units to the station property.

July 13, 2023              The City Council approved the Thanksgiving Point Area Plan Amendment to update the
                           land uses and design standards for the Thanksgiving Point Area.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of a minor amendment to the 1999 Thanksgiving Point Area
Plan. The amendment is to change automobile service and repair from “Not Permitted” to “Permitted”. This
amendment is being requested to allow the applicant to move forward with their business; changing the Washbarn
located at 2840 Clubhouse Drive from a car wash to an oil change and car repair shop. The new Thanksgiving Point
Area Plan Amendment that was approved by the City Council last July allows automobile service and repair as a
permitted use in the Commercial area, where the applicants business is located. The new Thanksgiving Point Area
Plan, however, has not yet been recorded. As such, legally the applicant is required to follow the original area plan
from 1999. This prohibits automobile service and repair in the area plan. The applicant is requesting this minor
amendment since the use is already allowed under the new area plan.

There were no comments from the DRC.




Thanksgiving Point Area Plan Amendment
  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a legislative item the Planning Commission has full discretion to provide a positive recommendation on the area
plan amendment or not. The Planning Commission can include in their motion changes they would like to see.

The public can comment on the proposed area plan amendment. Comments directed at proposed concerns and how
the proposed amendment could address those concerns are the most helpful.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed area plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed area plan does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in regards
         to area plan approval.
    2.   The proposed concept meets/does not meet TOD requirements found in Chapter 38 of the Lehi City
         Development Code.
    3.   The proposed development does/does not have the potential to provide regional benefits if carefully planned
         and phased.
    4.   Other findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Thanksgiving Point Area Plan Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 3, 2024

                                          Thanksgiving Point Area Plan Amendment
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Mike Ballard- requests review of the Thanksgiving Point Area Plan Amendment to allow automotive repair under the
current area plan.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Mike Ballard
Date of Plans Reviewed: 6/24/2024
Time Start: 1:15 PM
Time End: 1:15 PM


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Brad – Engineering: No comments.
Luke- Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning: No comments.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEUDLED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 11TH.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Action Requested:
Amend the current Thanksgiving Point Area Plan to permit Automobile service and
repair. Specifically, modify line 24 from “Not Permitted” to “Permitted” as shown in the
attached.


1. Reason and Justification for the Proposed Amendment
The proposed amendment seeks to modify the current Thanksgiving Point Area Plan to
include “Automobile service and repair” as a permissible use in the designated area –
see attached pdf entitled “Proposed Amendment - Thanksgiving Point Area Plan -
2024-06-24.”
The proposed use of Automobile service and repair has already been approved by the
Planning Committee and City Council. As evidence, please see the relevant page from
STACK DEVELOPMENT’s Table of Land Uses that demonstrates “Automobile service
and repair” as a permitted use – see attached pdf entitled “STACK Amendment
Automobile service and repair TP Area Plan.”
The purpose in moving forward independent of STACK DEVELOPMENT is due to the
pending sale of the subject property to a group that offers automobile service and repair
services, specifically, oil changing services. The contract for sale includes a provision
that requires the land use amendment to be recorded by August 1st.
We, as the seller, have been relying upon STACK DEVELOPMENT for the recordation
of the above referenced amendment since the beginning of 2024. However, despite
continual yet unmet recordation timelines given to us by STACK, it’s unclear whether
Stack will record the amendment prior to the referenced August 1st deadline. As such,
we are trying to move forward independent from STACK (we have no affiliation with
STACK) to ensure we don’t jeopardize the pending sale.

As support for this already approved amendment, this change is justified by the growing
demand for automotive-related services due to the increasing number of residents and
businesses in the area. As the population and commercial activities expand, the need
for accessible and convenient automotive services, including maintenance, repairs, and
other related functions, becomes essential. By permitting automotive services, the
community can better meet the needs of its residents and businesses, thereby
enhancing overall satisfaction and functionality within the area.
2. Effect of the Proposed Amendment on the Approved Area Plan and Surrounding
Area
The proposed amendment will integrate seamlessly with the existing approved area
plan. The inclusion of automotive services will complement the current mix of fueling
stations, hotels, restaurants, and office buildings. This addition will not disrupt the
existing land uses but rather provide a necessary service that supports the daily
operations of these establishments. Automotive services are a logical extension of the
current uses, as they directly support both individual transportation needs and the
operational efficiency of businesses. Moreover, careful planning and zoning regulations
will ensure that the introduction of automotive services does not negatively impact the
aesthetic or environmental quality of the area.


3. Suitability of the Properties for the Use Requested
The properties identified for the inclusion of automotive services are ideally suited for
this purpose. They are strategically located near major transportation routes, Maverik
fueling station and various restaurants, making them easily accessible for residents and
businesses alike. The current area plan, which includes fueling stations, hotels,
restaurants, and office buildings, indicates a high traffic flow and a need for related
automotive services. The properties' size, location, and infrastructure make them perfect
candidates for accommodating automotive service facilities without requiring significant
alterations or causing disruption to the existing land uses. Additionally, these properties
possess adequate space for the safe and efficient operation of automotive services,
ensuring minimal interference with surrounding businesses and residential areas.


4. Gain to the Public Health, Safety, and Welfare and Overall Community Benefit
The proposed amendment will significantly enhance public health, safety, and welfare
by providing essential automotive services that support the community’s transportation
infrastructure. Easy access to automotive services ensures that vehicles are well-
maintained, reducing the likelihood of accidents due to mechanical failures. This
contributes to safer road conditions for all users. Additionally, the availability of nearby
automotive services reduces travel time and distance for maintenance and repairs,
leading to decreased vehicle emissions and a lower environmental impact.
From an economic perspective, the introduction of automotive services will create job
opportunities and stimulate local economic growth. The presence of these services can
attract more businesses and visitors to the area, further enhancing the vitality and
attractiveness of the community. Overall, the proposed amendment will foster a more
self-sufficient, resilient, and economically vibrant community, ultimately benefiting all
stakeholders.


In conclusion, the proposed amendment to include automotive services in the land use
map is a well-justified, strategic enhancement that aligns with the current and future
needs of the community. It promises substantial benefits in terms of public health,
safety, welfare, and economic growth, ensuring the area continues to thrive and serve
its residents and businesses effectively.
