                             LEHI CITY 2500 WEST MAIN STREET
                                  GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        Lehi City
                                  Meeting Date         July 11, 2024
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation for an amendment to the General
                                                       Plan
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          Approximately 2500 West Main Street
                                      Acreage          50 acres
                              Existing Zoning          A-5
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          VLDRA (Very Low Density Residential Agriculture)
               Proposed Land Use Designation           VLDR ( Very Low Density Residential) and PF (Public Facility)
                            Existing Land Use          Agriculture – livestock
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North R-1-Flex          Single family residential
                                                                (north side of
                                                                Main Street)
                                                        South A-5              Agriculture – livestock
                                                         East TH-5/R-2         Single family residential/agriculture
                                                         West A-5/RA-1         Single family residential/open space
                             Date of DRC Review        June 26, 2024
                               Assigned Planner        Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval
The Planning Commission should consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a General Plan
amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed
         amendment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.

Section 04.010. Amendments to Lehi City General Plan; General Procedures.



Lehi City 2500 West Main Street General Plan Amendment
(Amended 09/08/08; 12/13/16; 08/22/23)

A.     A proposed amendment to the Lehi City General Plan may be initiated by any property owner, any person residing
in the City, any business owner, the Hearing Examiner, the Planning Commission, the City Council, the Reviewing
Departments, or the City Staff by filing an application for a General Plan amendment.

 B.    An application for an amendment to the Lehi City General Plan or General Plan Land Use Map shall be filed with
the City on the applicable application form as established pursuant to the provisions of this Code. Applications shall only
be accepted during the months of February and August unless the amendment is initiated by the City.

 C.     If such an amendment is approved, the applicant may then proceed to file an application for development approval
if the development is consistent with the approved General Plan amendment.

Section 10.050. Combined Actions Permitted. (Amended 11/28/06; 12/13/16; 09/14/21)

A.     The applicant may request and the Planning Division, the Reviewing Departments, the Planning Commission, the
Hearing Examiner, or the City Council may, at their discretion, combine the processing and hearing of various
development applications, administrative actions, and legislative actions. The sequence of review and approval of
applications authorized by this Code requires that compliance with the Lehi City General Plan be considered initially.

B.         Combined actions shall only be considered, and if deemed appropriate, permitted as follows:

      1. Application for a General Plan amendment, including text and map amendments, may be combined with an
      Application for Annexation.

      2.     Application for Zone District Map amendment may be combined with an Application for Area Plan approval.

      3. Application for Zone District Map amendment, Lehi City Development Code amendment, site plan approval,
      preliminary subdivision approval, final subdivision approval, Planned Residential Design (PRD) approval, Planned
      Unit Development (PUD) approval, and an application for a conditional use, variance, or other required approvals
      may be combined.

      4. Application for a General Plan amendment may be combined with an Application for a Zone District Map
      amendment when the designations for both are proposed to be Public Facility.

      5.     Concept plan applications may be combined with any other application.



     APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES




Lehi City 2500 West Main Street General Plan Amendment
  PROPERTY HISTORY

November 17, 2022          Lehi City Planning Commission gave a negative recommendation for the Gardner-Plumb
                           Main Street concept plan and General Plan Amendment from VLDRA to LDR.

March 28, 2024             Lehi City Planning Commission gave a negative recommendation for the Garnder-Plumb
                           Main Street General Plan Amendment from VLDRA to LDR.

April 23, 2024             Lehi City Council denied the Gardner-Plumb Main Street General Plan Amendment from
                           VLDRA to LDR with direction to pursue a development agreement.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

Lehi City is requesting to amend the General Plan land use designation of this property from Very Low Density
Residential Agriculture (VLDRA) to Very Low Density Residential (VLDR) and Public Facility (PF) on a 50 acre
parcel located at approximately 2500 West Main Street. This request to amend the General Plan is part of the Lehi
Strata Plumb Gardner Development Agreement, and a zone change has also been filed concurrently with this
application to change the zone from A-5 to R-1-15 and PF. This application is to facilitate the construction of a new
Public Works facility, Strata Network facility, and a residential subdivision. Approximately 14.8 acres will be
designated as Public Facility and will front along Main Street, while the remaining 36 acres will be designated as
VLDR to facilitate the residential subdivision.

The Development Code allows General Plan Amendments to be reviewed outside of the February and August review
windows if they are city-initiated items. The Development Code also allows a Zone Change application and General
Plan Amendment application to be considered concurrently if the purpose is to create a Public Facilities designation.

There were no comments from the DRC.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a legislative item the Planning Commission has a high level of discretion in whether they recommend approval
for General Plan Amendments or not. The Commission should consider the impacts of additional density on adjacent
neighborhoods, the impacts to existing city infrastructure, and if adding additional density to this parcel meets the
goals of the General Plan.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendment to the General
Plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:




Lehi City 2500 West Main Street General Plan Amendment
    1.   The proposed amendment to the Lehi City General Plan is/is not detrimental to the public health, safety,
         and welfare of Lehi City.
    2.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provisions
         of the General Plan and its various elements.
    3.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not consistent with the land uses and zoning of nearby and
         adjoining properties.
    4.   The proposed General Plan amendment will/will not have a substantial adverse effect on surrounding
         property.
    5.   The affected site is/is not physically suitable in terms of design, location, shape, size, operating
         characteristics, and the provision of public services to accommodate any potential future uses, including all
         landscaping, loading areas, open spaces, parking areas, setbacks, buffering/screening, walls, fences, yards,
         and other required features.
    6.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Lehi City 2500 West Main Street General Plan Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         June 26, 2024

                                      2500 West Main General Plan Amendment
                                               DRC Redline Comments
Lehi City – Requests review of a General Plan Amendment on 51.75 acres located at approximately 2500 West Main Street,
changing the land use designation from Very Low Density Residential Agricultural to Public Facilities and Very Low
Density Residential.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Katie
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 6/13/2024
Time Start: 4:00 PM
Time End: 4:05 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No Comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No Comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments.
Kim – Planning: No comments.


DRC COMMENTS:
Consistency with the elements of the Lehi City General Plan.
The only General Plan Element affected by the proposed amendment is the Land Use Element.

Effect of the proposed amendment on the existing goals, objectives, and policies of the Lehi City General Plan.

Insert Definitions for existing and proposed land uses from the General Plan pages 21-26


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 11TH. (NEED ENVELOPES
BEFORE SCHEDULING)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                                                                                                  153 North 100 East
                                                                                                  Lehi, UT 84043
                                                                                                  Office 385.201.1030
                                                                                                  lehi-ut.gov


 Community Development Department –
 Planning Division

June 19, 2024

Narrative – 2500 W Main Street General Plan Amendment and Zone Change

As Lehi City grows, our need for additional space for public works facilities is also increasing. The City’s Public
Works Department has been looking for an additional location for a Public Works facility on the west side of the
City for a number of months. An additional facility west of I-15 would help with better efficiency of operations, and
would have the additional benefit of having facilities on both sides of I-15 that could help in case of emergency, and
access across the freeway was not possible. At the same time, Strata has also been looking for a permanent site to
locate their operations as they continue to build out the City’s fiber network, and plan to continue serving the City’s
fiber system after the initial installation of the network is complete.

A portion of the subject property along west Main Street became available, and the City and Strata have been in
negotiations with the current owner, Gardner-Plumb, L.C. On April 23rd, 2024, the City Council held a discussion
regarding uses of the subject property and their willingness to enter into a development agreement that would allow
the City and Strata to purchase a portion of the property along Main Street. The proposed development agreement is
being considered concurrently with this request, along with the associated zone changes for each of the three parties
involved (Lehi City - PF, Strata - PF, Gardner-Plumb, L.C. – R-1-15). The State Code now requires all development
agreements that deal with land use issues to be reviewed by the Planning Commission prior to consideration by the
City Council.

The proposed designations of PF and VLDR are compatible with the existing land uses of nearby and adjoining
properties. Much of the frontage of Main Street has been designated for commercial uses, and is not ideal for single
family residential immediately adjacent to a major roadway. The VLDR designation on the remainder of the
property is compatible with the adjacent residential and agricultural uses to the east (planned for future LDR on the
General Plan) and the RA-1 Zoned Jordan Willows subdivision, and will have lot sizes similar to what is currently
in that neighborhood. The proposed amendment will not have a detrimental effect on the character of the
surrounding area, and the change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will not unduly affect the uses, or
proposed uses for nearby and adjoining properties. For the reasons stated above, and for the additional reason of
providing additional housing to meet the growing demand in the area, this change will have a positive effect on the
public health, safety and welfare and overall community benefit.

The Development Code does allow for City initiated General Plan amendments outside the typical windows of
February and August. The Code also allows for concurrent processing of a General Plan Amendment and Zone
Change when the purpose is for creating a Public Facilities designation. As part of the development agreement,
Gardner-Plumb, L.C. is also being allowed to submit a zone change request for their remaining property
(approximately 36 acres).

Thank you,

Kim Struthers, AICP
Community Development Director
