                      DOMINION REGULATOR STATION SITE PLAN
                                    PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant          Dominion Energy
                           Meeting Date          July 11, 2024
              Requested Action/Purpose           Approval of a proposed site plan
                          Decision Type          Administrative
                               Location          11775 West Frontage Road
                            Project Area         0.13
                        Existing Zoning          A-1
      General Plan Land Use Designation          Light Industrial
                      Existing Land Use          Asphalt plant
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use               North TH-5                   Future station area plan
                                                    South A-1                    Asphalt plant
                                                     East Light Industrial       Children’s camp
                                                     West A-1                    Vacant
                       Date of DRC Review        June 12, 2024
                         Assigned Planner        Katie Bussell

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission         Final approval
                             City Council        No action required


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.250. Site Plan Approval Process. (Am 5/22/01; 08/13/02; 11/09/04)
The review and approval process for a Site Plan shall be as follows:
Permitted Uses (2) Site Plans associated with a permitted use and with a total valuation, including building and all
associated improvements, greater than $500,000 dollars shall require approval by the Planning Commission,
following a review by the DRC. The Planning Commission may require that the approval of a Site Plan be forwarded
to the City Council if they determine a project is likely to have a significant impact on traffic, environmental quality,
lighting, compatibility of uses, or the health, safety, or general welfare of the surrounding properties, property values,
or residents. The Planning Commission and or City Council may hold a public hearing on any project likely to have
a significant impact on the surrounding property, values or residents.

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said
requirements and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation,
site planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and
roads, and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential
requirements and conditions:

1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers of
all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance and
character of the area.
2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
driveways to specified standards.
4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
5. Water supply and fire protection.



Dominion Regulator Station Site Plan
6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter, heat,
glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
8. Regulation of signs.
9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and operated
in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of the
proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General Plan,
and the intent and purpose of this Code.

The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running
with the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest.



  PROPERTY HISTORY

August 9, 2011             Lehi City Council approved annexation of property into Lehi from Camp Williams.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Dominion Energy Natural Gas Regulator Station site plan, a conditional use,
located at approximately 11775 West Frontage Road in the A-1 zone. The proposed use is a conditional use in the A-1
zone. Conditional uses are allowed uses that can have reasonable conditions put on them. Dominion Energy will be leasing
the land from Old Castle Management to construct the regulator station. The new station is necessary to have a greater
capacity and will allow for improved system pressures to better support the growth of Lehi. The site will be secured with
a 7-foot chain link fence and will be accessible via vehicle and man gates.

DRC Comments
There were two comments from the DRC, including:
1. Line extension required (approx. 2000 feet). May need to acquire easements.
2. Clearly label the fence, whether it’s existing or proposed, and the material and height.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional uses are allowed uses that can have reasonable conditions put on them. This means that the Planning
Commission must approve the use unless there are legitimate concerns to the health, safety or welfare of the community.

The public can speak to this item. Comments focused on potential negative impacts of the use and conditions (like fencing)
that could be put in place to mitigate the negative impacts are the most useful kind of comments.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed site plan. Any motion should include findings.
Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or
         improvements in the vicinity and will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, general welfare or




Dominion Regulator Station Site Plan
         convenience.
    2.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and
         policies of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
    3.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate
         size and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that
         it will not be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
    4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public meeting.




Dominion Regulator Station Site Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           June 12, 2024

                                             Dominion Regulator Station Site Plan
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Dominion Energy- requests review of the Dominion Regulator Station site plan and conditional use located on 0.13-acres
at approximately 11775 West Frontage Road.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Melissa, Kevin Mulvey
Date of Plans Reviewed: 6/4/2024
Time Start: 2:27 PM
Time End: 2:40 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Line extension required (approx. 2000 ft) may need to acquire easements.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Brad – Engineering: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
2. Clearly label the fence, whether it's existing or proposed, and the material and height.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAILGATE, NONE)
PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
2. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
   must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
3. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
4. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
5. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
   scheduled.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           June 12, 2024

8.   The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
     by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9.   Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
     be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
     provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
     loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
     construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 11TH.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
New Lehi Regulator Station – LE0022




Project Overview:

         Dominion Energy is proposing to install an intermediate high pressure regulator station
at the site located at 11775 W Frontage Rd., Lehi, UT, parcel number 58:003:0040. The site will
be utilized to receive high pressure natural gas above 125 PSIG and regulate the pressure down
to 45 PSIG to be distributed to the residents of Lehi City. Dominion Energy has an existing
station with lower capacity on a nearby property which this new facility will be replacing. The
new station site being proposed will have a greater capacity and will allow for improved system
pressures to better support the growth of Lehi City in this area. Dominion Energy is pursuing
conditional use because the area is zoned as A-1 which requires a conditional use permit for
utility buildings or other above ground structures.




Project Details:

        The station site will develop an area of the parcel of approximately 0.13 acre. The
station will run 24/7 to provide natural gas to the area. The site will be secured with a 7 ft.
chain link fence topped with 1 ft. barbed wire and accessible via chain link vehicle and man
gates. The station will be unmanned, so there will not be any dedicated parking space. In
instances where it is visited by Dominion Energy personnel, the gravel station yard will be used
for parking. The site will be designed with a gravel access road for maintenance and operations
crews to have vehicle access into the station yard for routine duties.
        When completed, its use as proposed will not be detrimental or injurious to property
improvements in the vicinity nor would it prohibit the development of property in the area in
accordance with the A-1 zoning. This site has been designed to improve the look of the area.
The proposed use will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, general welfare, or
                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
New Lehi Regulator Station – LE0022




convenience as it is compliant with applicable regulations for safe operation and provides an
essential service to the public.
        Dominion Energy sees this proposed use as being compliant with the goals and policies
of the Lehi City General Plan as it supports the ability to continue to develop the city where
needed and can help support the commercial, industrial, and residential development element
of the plan.
        The site identified for this proposed use is of adequate size and dimension to permit
construction of the facilities.

         Further information and details related to the proposed development of the site can be
seen on drawing sets DEU-R-LE0022-CCS-001 and DEU-R-LE0022-PIP-001 provided to Lehi City
for site approval.




                                                                                    Page 2 of 2
