                                  Applicant       Lehi City and Strata Networks
                              Meeting Date        July 11, 2024
                   Requested Action/Purpose       Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed develop-
                                                  ment agreement
                            Decision Type         Legislative
                                  Location        Approximately 2500 West Main Street
                                   Acreage        50 acres
                           Existing Zoning        A-5
Existing General Plan Land Use Designation        VLDRA (Very Low Density Residential Agriculture) and OS (Open
                                                  Space)
                         Existing Land Use        Agriculture - Livestock
              Adjacent Zoning and Land Use         North R-1-Flex (north       Single family residential
                                                            side of Main St)
                                                   South A-5                   Agriculture - Livestock
                                                    East TH-5/R-2              Single family residential/agriculture
                                                    West A-5/RA-1              Single family residential/open space
                         Date of DRC Review       N/A - not required for a development agreement
                           Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell


                        Planning Commission       Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                 City Council     Final approval




Section 29.020. Criteria for Entering into a Development Agreement.
The city may enter into a development agreement only if the development agreement:

    A. Has been duly adopted by the City Council in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

    B. The proposed development to which the development agreement pertains is in conformity with the general
       plan, zoning district regulations, and other applicable requirements of the City.

    C. The proposed development subject to the agreement contains outstanding features that advance the policies,
       goals and objectives of Lehi City, or the property owner agrees to provide capital improvements that exceed
       the development's proportionate share of the costs of the facilities needed to service the development, which
       hereby advance the provision of facilities to serve Lehi City.




Lehi Strata Gardner Plumb Development Agreement
November 17, 2022           Lehi City Planning Commission gave a negative recommendation for the Gardner-Plumb
                            Main Street concept plan and General Plan Amendment from VLDRA to LDR.

March 28, 2024              Lehi City Planning Commission gave a negative recommendation for the Garnder-Plumb
                            Main Street General Plan Amendment from VLDRA to LDR.

April 23, 2024              Lehi City Council denied the Gardner-Plumb Main Street General Plan Amendment from
                            VLDRA to LDR with direction to pursue a development agreement.




The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of the Lehi Strata Gardner Plumb Development Agreement.
This agreement covers an approximately 50-acre parcel located at 2500 West Main Street. The agreement would
designate approximately 9 acres to Lehi City for the new Public Works facility and 5.8 acres to Strata. A zone change
application and general plan amendment application have been filed concurrently with this proposed development
agreement to facilitate the construction of a new Public Works facility and Strata Network facility. The proposed
zoning and General Plan designation would be Public Facility for both the Public Works facility and the Strata Net-
work facility. The proposed zoning and General Plan designation for the remaining 36 acres south of the Public
Facility designation would be R-1-15 and VLDR, respectively, to facilitate residential development. A 20-foot public
utility easement will serve as the continuation of the Power Line Trail that will be placed south of the Public Facility
parcels to provide buffer between the Public Facility parcels and the residential development.

As Lehi continues to grow a new Public Works facility is necessary to increase the efficiency of operations, and
having one west of I-15 can help in the case of an emergency. Further, Strata needs a permanent site to continue to
build out Lehi’s fiber network. The proposed designations of PF and VLDR are compatible with the existing land
uses of nearby and adjoining properties. Single-family residential immediately adjacent to a major roadway is not
ideal, so having the public facilities front onto Main Street instead of the residential development will help buffer the
residential development from adverse effects of Main Street. The VLDR designation on the remainder of the property
will have similar lot sizes to the adjacent Jordan Willows Subdivision.

There were no comments from the DRC as development agreements are not required to be reviewed by the DRC.




Lehi Strata Gardner Plumb Development Agreement
This is a legislative item, giving the Planning Commission discretion to provide a positive, negative, or neutral rec-
ommendation. The final decision on approval or denial lies with the City Council.

This is a public hearing item. The public can comment on this item and provide suggestions on what they believe
should change, or voice concerns over the agreement. Comments focusing on potential detrimental effects and sug-
gested changes would be the most helpful.




The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed development agreement.
Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed agreement on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed agreement with the General Plan land uses of nearby and
         adjoining properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed agreement.




Lehi Strata Gardner Plumb Development Agreement
