                TEMPLE VIEW VILLAS PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Brent Ventura
                         Meeting Date         July 11, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose         Review of and approval of a preliminary subdivision
                        Decision Type         Administrative
                              Location        260 East 2700 North
                          Project Area        4.07 acres
                       Existing Zoning        RA-1
     General Plan Land Use Designation        Very Low Density Residential (VLDR)
                  Number of Lots/Units        5 Lots
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North PF               Skyridge High School Baseball Field
                                                 South RA-1             Single Family Homes
                                                  East PF               Skyridge High School Driving Range
                                                  West RA-1             Single Family Homes
                      Date of DRC Review      June 26, 2024
                        Assigned Planner      Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission       Review and approval
                            City Council      No Action Needed


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code,
including review by the Reviewing Departments, and review and approval by the Planning Commission following
a public hearing.

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has
been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 10, 2000              Property came into the City as part of the Lehi Center Street Annexation

May 23, 2023               City Council approved a general plan amendment changing this property from Public
                           Facility to Very Low Density Residential.

October 10, 2023           City Council approved a zone change to RA-1 and a concept plan giving an exception to
                           the planter strip and pedestrian connection to the school.


  REPORT ANALYSIS
The applicant requests approval of the Temple View Villas Preliminary Subdivision located at approximately 260 East
2700 North with approved RA-1 zoning.

Approved Exceptions
The Planning Commission and City Council previously approved exceptions to the maximum cul-de-sac length and



Temple View Villas Preliminary Subdivision
removing the park strip from the road cross section to match the surrounding neighborhoods. The City Council also
indicated that the pedestrian connection to the school could still be required if the school district and Skyridge
administration agreed that they wanted it. They did not, and so the exception for the connection is allowed.

Layout
All the proposed lots exceed the minimum lot size for the RA-1 zone of 15,000 square feet. And all the frontages exceed
the minimum 100-foot width requirement. The proposed subdivision includes 5 lots and a remnant parcel, Parcel A.
The plat indicates that the owner of Lot 1 will own and maintain Parcel A.

DRC Comments
The DRC reviewed the preliminary subdivision and had 14 comments, but most of the comments are informational for
the final subdivision. None of the comments would impact the layout of the subdivision.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Subdivisions are administrative items. If they meet the Code requirements they must be approved. This subdivision has
exceptions but they were all approved previously. The Planning Commission is just determining that they meet the
Code requirements.

The public may speak to this item but they should recognize that this item will not be denied. The public may want to
bring up concerns or items the Planning Commission may not be aware of.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve or approve with modifications the proposed preliminary subdivision. Any
motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1. The proposed preliminary subdivision meets/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development
       Code.
    2. The proposed subdivision includes previously approved exceptions.
    3. The proposed subdivision does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    4. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Temple View Villas Preliminary Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           June 26, 2024

                                                       Temple View Villas
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Jason Mandelaris- requests preliminary subdivision review of the Temple View Villas, a 5-lot single family development
located at approximately 2800 North 260 East.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, Gary Ellis, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Brent Ventura, Denny Crockett
Date of Plans Reviewed: 6/5/2024
Time Start: 1:52pm
Time End: 2:20pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
1. For the final plans
             a. Water mains are located on north and east side of curb.
             b. PI main will end with a hydrant behind walk and 6'' valve in the street, culinary water main will end with
                  a 4'' blow off and valve in the street.
             c. 8'' sewer main will be located in the center of street. show Manholes on all bends. sewer main will end
                  with a Manhole.
             d. Show sewer laterals into each lot and water services 5' off property line.
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works:
2. SWPPP will be required prior to precon
Brad and Gary – Engineering:
3. At the time of Final Subdivision and Construction, change the Road base thickness to 6" per section 2 of the Lehi City
    Design Standards & Public Improvement Specifications. Also provide a road grade CBR for the subbase, and design
    the subbase thickness accordingly (per section 2) - Sheet 4
4. At the time of final construction plans, at a vertical curve at sta. 1+19.12 of sufficient length to meet a minimum "K"
    value of 20 - Sheet 4
5. At at the time of final platting, re-label the 10.00' P.U.E. on the front of each lot to read "10' PU&RCE (Public Utility
    and Roadway Construction Easement) - Preliminary Plat
6. AT the time of Final Subdivision, provide details for the storm drainage sump. Work with engineering on the
    percolation rate and other details.
Kim – Planning:
13 Water dedication must be completed
14 For the final plat make the following updates to the plat:
             a. Add “A residential subdivision” in the title block under the name
             b. Add Mayor Approval stamp
             c. Change owners dedication to temple view villas
             d. See addresses on the PDF
             e. Include zoning and overall density in tabulation table
Recommendation:
Consider changing the width of the asphalt road to 32' to match current City standards and doing a 6-foot sidewalk. The
road could be gradually tapered from existing to new.

PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
    Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           June 26, 2024

2.  10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
    improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
3. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
    supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
    necessary supplies for the development.
4. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
    process.
5. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
6. Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).
1. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
    Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com).
7. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
8. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
    Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
    agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
9. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
10. Address any comments or conditions from City Council approval.
11. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled
12. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Submit a title report to the planner over the project for review.
4. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
5. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           June 26, 2024




THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 11th AFTER WE RECEIVE
ENVELOPES




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                3 of 3
