               LEHI CITY 2500 WEST MAIN STREET ZONE CHANGE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        Lehi City
                                  Meeting Date         July 11, 2024
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                       change
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          Approximately 2500 West Main Street
                                      Acreage          14.6 acres
                              Existing Zoning          A-5
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          VLDRA (Very Low Density Residential Agriculture)
                 Proposed Zoning Designation           PF (Public Facility)
                            Existing Land Use          Agriculture – livestock
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North R-1-Flex            Single family residential
                                                                (north side of
                                                                Main Street)
                                                        South A-5                Agriculture – livestock
                                                         East TH-5/R-2           Single family residential/agriculture
                                                         West A-5/RA-1           Single family residential/open space
                              Date of DRC Review       June 26, 2024
                                Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval
The Planning Commission should consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a General Plan
amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed
         amendment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


Section 10.050. Combined Actions Permitted. (Amended 11/28/06; 12/13/16; 09/14/21)




Lehi City 2500 West Main Street Zone Change
A.     The applicant may request and the Planning Division, the Reviewing Departments, the Planning Commission, the
Hearing Examiner, or the City Council may, at their discretion, combine the processing and hearing of various
development applications, administrative actions, and legislative actions. The sequence of review and approval of
applications authorized by this Code requires that compliance with the Lehi City General Plan be considered initially.

B.         Combined actions shall only be considered, and if deemed appropriate, permitted as follows:

      1. Application for a General Plan amendment, including text and map amendments, may be combined with an
      Application for Annexation.

      2.     Application for Zone District Map amendment may be combined with an Application for Area Plan approval.

      3. Application for Zone District Map amendment, Lehi City Development Code amendment, site plan approval,
      preliminary subdivision approval, final subdivision approval, Planned Residential Design (PRD) approval, Planned
      Unit Development (PUD) approval, and an application for a conditional use, variance, or other required approvals
      may be combined.

      4. Application for a General Plan amendment may be combined with an Application for a Zone District Map
      amendment when the designations for both are proposed to be Public Facility.

      5.     Concept plan applications may be combined with any other application.


     APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES




     PROPERTY HISTORY

November 17, 2022             Lehi City Planning Commission gave a negative recommendation for the Gardner-Plumb
                              Main Street concept plan and General Plan Amendment from VLDRA to LDR.

March 28, 2024                Lehi City Planning Commission gave a negative recommendation for the Garnder-Plumb
                              Main Street General Plan Amendment from VLDRA to LDR.

April 23, 2024                Lehi City Council denied the Gardner-Plumb Main Street General Plan Amendment from
                              VLDRA to LDR with direction to pursue a development agreement.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

Lehi City is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from A-5 to Public Facility on
approximately 14.8 acres located at 2500 West Main Street. This request to amend the General Plan is part of the
Lehi Strata Plumb Gardner Development Agreement, and a General Plan Amendment to change the designation from
Very Low Density Residential Agriculture (VLDRA) to Very Low Density Residential (VLDR) has been filed
concurrently. This application is to facilitate the construction of a new Public Works facility and a Strata Network
facility. Approximately 14.8 acres will be designated as Public Facility and will front along Main Street.




Lehi City 2500 West Main Street Zone Change
The Development Code allows a Zone Change application and General Plan Amendment application to be considered
concurrently if the purpose is to create a Public Facilities designation.

There was one comment from the DRC to provide a legal description for the area proposed to be zoned as PF.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative decisions, giving the Planning Commission a large amount of discretion to recommend
approval or denial of a zone change. However, zone changes that meet the General Plan must be approved unless
strong reasons are provided for the detriment that the zone change would cause to the City.

The Public can comment on zone changes. Comments should focus on potential negative impacts that would occur
as a result of changing the zone and possible solutions to resolve those.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Lehi City 2500 West Main Street Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         June 26, 2024

                                    2500 West Main A-5 General Plan Amendment
                                               DRC Redline Comments
Lehi City – Requests review of a Zone Change on 14.82 acres located at approximately 2500 West Main Street, changing
    the zoning from A-5 Agriculture to Public Facilities.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, Trent Dyer
Assigned Planner:
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 6/13/2024
Time Start: 4:00 PM
Time End: 4:05 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No Comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
1. Need to provide a legal description for the area proposed to be zoned as PF.


DRC COMMENTS:
Consistency with the elements of the Lehi City General Plan.
The only General Plan Element affected by the proposed amendment is the Land Use Element.

Effect of the proposed amendment on the existing goals, objectives, and policies of the Lehi City General Plan.

Insert Definitions for existing and proposed land uses from the General Plan pages 21-26


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 11TH. (NEED ENVELOPES BEFORE
SCHEDULING)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                                                                                                  153 North 100 East
                                                                                                  Lehi, UT 84043
                                                                                                  Office 385.201.1030
                                                                                                  lehi-ut.gov


 Community Development Department –
 Planning Division

June 19, 2024

Narrative – 2500 W Main Street General Plan Amendment and Zone Change

As Lehi City grows, our need for additional space for public works facilities is also increasing. The City’s Public
Works Department has been looking for an additional location for a Public Works facility on the west side of the
City for a number of months. An additional facility west of I-15 would help with better efficiency of operations, and
would have the additional benefit of having facilities on both sides of I-15 that could help in case of emergency, and
access across the freeway was not possible. At the same time, Strata has also been looking for a permanent site to
locate their operations as they continue to build out the City’s fiber network, and plan to continue serving the City’s
fiber system after the initial installation of the network is complete.

A portion of the subject property along west Main Street became available, and the City and Strata have been in
negotiations with the current owner, Gardner-Plumb, L.C. On April 23rd, 2024, the City Council held a discussion
regarding uses of the subject property and their willingness to enter into a development agreement that would allow
the City and Strata to purchase a portion of the property along Main Street. The proposed development agreement is
being considered concurrently with this request, along with the associated zone changes for each of the three parties
involved (Lehi City - PF, Strata - PF, Gardner-Plumb, L.C. – R-1-15). The State Code now requires all development
agreements that deal with land use issues to be reviewed by the Planning Commission prior to consideration by the
City Council.

The proposed designations of PF and VLDR are compatible with the existing land uses of nearby and adjoining
properties. Much of the frontage of Main Street has been designated for commercial uses, and is not ideal for single
family residential immediately adjacent to a major roadway. The VLDR designation on the remainder of the
property is compatible with the adjacent residential and agricultural uses to the east (planned for future LDR on the
General Plan) and the RA-1 Zoned Jordan Willows subdivision, and will have lot sizes similar to what is currently
in that neighborhood. The proposed amendment will not have a detrimental effect on the character of the
surrounding area, and the change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will not unduly affect the uses, or
proposed uses for nearby and adjoining properties. For the reasons stated above, and for the additional reason of
providing additional housing to meet the growing demand in the area, this change will have a positive effect on the
public health, safety and welfare and overall community benefit.

The Development Code does allow for City initiated General Plan amendments outside the typical windows of
February and August. The Code also allows for concurrent processing of a General Plan Amendment and Zone
Change when the purpose is for creating a Public Facilities designation. As part of the development agreement,
Gardner-Plumb, L.C. is also being allowed to submit a zone change request for their remaining property
(approximately 36 acres).

Thank you,

Kim Struthers, AICP
Community Development Director
