                      EDGE HOMES MAIN STREET ZONE CHANGE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        Edge Homes
                                  Meeting Date         July 11, 2024
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                       change
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          Approximately 2500 West Main Street
                                      Acreage          36 acres
                              Existing Zoning          A-5
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          VLDRA (Very Low Density Residential Agriculture)
                 Proposed Zoning Designation           R-1-15
                            Existing Land Use          Agriculture – livestock
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North R-1-Flex            Single family residential
                                                                (north side of
                                                                Main Street)
                                                        South A-5                Agriculture – livestock
                                                         East TH-5/R-2           Single family residential/agriculture
                                                         West A-5/RA-1           Single family residential/open space
                              Date of DRC Review       June 26, 2024
                                Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should
consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed
         amendment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.

Section 10.050. Combined Actions Permitted. (Amended 11/28/06; 12/13/16; 09/14/21)

A.    The applicant may request and the Planning Division, the Reviewing Departments, the Planning Commission, the
Hearing Examiner, or the City Council may, at their discretion, combine the processing and hearing of various




Edge Homes Main Street Zone Change
development applications, administrative actions, and legislative actions. The sequence of review and approval of
applications authorized by this Code requires that compliance with the Lehi City General Plan be considered initially.

B.         Combined actions shall only be considered, and if deemed appropriate, permitted as follows:

      1. Application for a General Plan amendment, including text and map amendments, may be combined with an
      Application for Annexation.

      2.     Application for Zone District Map amendment may be combined with an Application for Area Plan approval.

      3. Application for Zone District Map amendment, Lehi City Development Code amendment, site plan approval,
      preliminary subdivision approval, final subdivision approval, Planned Residential Design (PRD) approval, Planned
      Unit Development (PUD) approval, and an application for a conditional use, variance, or other required approvals
      may be combined.

      4. Application for a General Plan amendment may be combined with an Application for a Zone District Map
      amendment when the designations for both are proposed to be Public Facility.

      5.     Concept plan applications may be combined with any other application.



     APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES




     PROPERTY HISTORY

November 17, 2022             Lehi City Planning Commission gave a negative recommendation for the Gardner-Plumb
                              Main Street concept plan and General Plan Amendment from VLDRA to LDR.

March 28, 2024                Lehi City Planning Commission gave a negative recommendation for the Garnder-Plumb
                              Main Street General Plan Amendment from VLDRA to LDR.

April 23, 2024                Lehi City Council denied the Gardner-Plumb Main Street General Plan Amendment from
                              VLDRA to LDR with direction to pursue a development agreement.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from A-5 to R-1-15 on 36 acres
located at approximately 2500 West Main Street. This request for a zone change is part of the Lehi Strata Plumb
Gardner Development Agreement, and a General Plan Amendment to change the designation from Very Low Density
Residential Agriculture (VLDRA) to Very Low Density Residential (VLDR) has been filed concurrently. This
application is to facilitate the construction of a new residential subdivision on approximately 36 acres. The applicant’s
narrative states that having the zone be R-1-15 would be more consistent and complimentary with the lot sizes of
adjacent properties, namely the Jordan Willows subdivision to the west.




Edge Homes Main Street Zone Change
This zone change application was submitted concurrently with a City initiated General Plan Amendment to amend
the General Plan Designation from VLDRA to VLDR and PF. This zone change application is also part of the Lehi
Strata Plumb Gardner Development Agreement that specifies the zone change application can be submitted with the
City initiated applications.

DRC Comments
The DRC had two redline comments, including:
1. R-1-12 or R-1-15? It should be R-1-15. Change in the narrative.
2. Dedicate required water rights prior to recording the zone change.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative decisions, giving the Planning Commission a large amount of discretion to recommend
approval or denial of a zone change. However, zone changes that meet the General Plan must be approved unless
strong reasons are provided for the detriment that the zone change would cause to the City.

The Public can comment on zone changes. Comments should focus on potential negative impacts that would occur
as a result of changing the zone and possible solutions to resolve those.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Edge Homes Main Street Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         June 26, 2024

                                       Edge Homes 2500 West Zone Change
                                              DRC Redline Comments
Edge Homes – Requests review of a Zone Change on 36.93 acres located at approximately 2500 West Main Street,
   changing the zoning from A-5 Agriculture to R-1-15 Single-Family Residential.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, Trent Dyer
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Brandon Watson, Michael Budge, Brady Morris
Date of Plans Reviewed: 6/13/2024
Time Start: 4:00 PM
Time End: 4:05 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
1. R-1-12 or R-1-15?- change in the write up.
2. Dedicate required water rights prior to recording the zone change.


DRC COMMENTS:
Consistency with the elements of the Lehi City General Plan.
The only General Plan Element affected by the proposed amendment is the Land Use Element.

Effect of the proposed amendment on the existing goals, objectives, and policies of the Lehi City General Plan.

Insert Definitions for existing and proposed land uses from the General Plan pages 21-26


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 11TH. (NEED ENVELOPES BEFORE
SCHEDULING)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Dear Lehi City,

The following narrative is intended to provide the requested information in the Application for Zoning
Map Amendment.

We are requesting that the Zoning be amended to change the zone of the subject property from A-5 to
R-1-15. The reason for this change is to provide similarly sized single family lots as the surrounding
areas. The current zone (A-5) is surrounded by RA-1 to the west, R-1-22 to the south, and county
properties to the east. To provide a more consistent lot size in the area we would propose that the
Zoning Map be amended to allow the subject property to develop lots as R-1-15.

This change would not only provide the area with more consistency but would also be compatible with
the surrounding uses of the adjoining properties and communities by keeping lots and homes similar in
size. We feel that by amending the subject property to R-1-15, the effect on the character of the
surrounding area will be positive since the surrounding areas have similar zoning to that which we are
requesting.

The communities to the West and East of the subject property have average lot sizes in the quarter acre
range. There is a small neighborhood to the Southeast of the subject property that has some larger lots
in the half-acre range. The R-1-15 zone change would provide consistency with the surrounding
properties on a lot size basis.

As part of this change, we are proposing lots with a minimum square footage of 12,000. All other criteria
for the R-1-15 will be met (i.e. lot widths, setbacks, etc.). All roadways will be public 60-foot wide
roadways, consistent with current Lehi City standards. This project will also provide a City
Master-Planned Trail connecting the Powerline Trail to the 700 South Cycle Track.

We feel that based on the surrounding zones, this amendment makes sense and provides consistency
and compatibility with the surrounding areas and provides a similar character to the neighborhood and
surrounding communities.



Respectfully,

Brandon Parr

Edge Homes
