                           WATSON ACRES PLAT AMENDMENT
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Troy Watson
                         Meeting Date         July 25, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose         Approval of a proposed plat amendment
                              Location        1045 North 200 East
     Existing General Plan Designation        Low Density Residential (LDR)
                       Existing Zoning        R-1-8
                    Existing Land Use         Single Family Homes
                 Number of Lots/Units         One Lot
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North R-1-8                 Single Family Homes
                                                 South R-1-8                 Single Family Homes
                                                  East R-1-8                 Single Family Homes
                                                  West RA-1                  Single Family Home
                    Date of DRC Review        June 19, 2024
                      Assigned Planner        Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.340. Vacating, Altering, or Amending a Recorded Subdivision Plat.
The City Council may consider, after Reviewing Departments review, any proposed vacation, alteration, or amend-
ment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision plat, or any road or lot, contained in a subdivision plat.

    A. A fee owner of land, as shown on the last county assessment roll, in a subdivision that has been laid out
    and platted as provided in this part may file an application to have some or all of the plat vacated or amended.
    B. The City Council shall hold a public hearing within forty-five (45) days after the day on which the appli-
    cation is filed if:

         1.       Any owner within the plat notifies the City of the owner's objection in writing within ten (10)
         days of mailed notification; or

         2.       A public hearing is required because all of the owners in the subdivision have not signed the
         revised plat.

    C. The public hearing requirement of Subsection B does not apply and the City Council may consider at a
    public meeting an owner's request to vacate or amend a subdivision plat if the application seeks to:

         1.   Join two or more of the applicant fee owner's contiguous lots;

         2. Subdivide one or more of the applying fee owner's lots, if the subdivision will not result in a violation
         of a land use ordinance or a development condition;

         3. Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or parcels if the fee owners of each of the adjoining lots or parcels
         join in the application, regardless of whether the lots or parcels are located in the same subdivision;

         4.   On a lot owned by the applying fee owner, adjust an internal lot restriction imposed by the City; or

         5.   Alter the plat in a manner that does not change existing boundaries or other attributes of lots within
        the subdivision that are not:
             a. owned by the applicant; or
             b. designated as a common area

    D. Each request to vacate or amend a plat that contains a request to vacate or amend a public street, right-of-
    way, or easement is also subject to the State Code requirements for vacation of a public right-of-way.

    E. Each request to vacate or amend an entire plat or a portion of a plat shall include:

        1. The name and address of each owner of record of the land contained in the entire plat or on that portion
        of the plat described in the application; and

        2.      The signature of each owner described in Subsection (E)(1) who consents to the application.

Section 11.350. Plat Amendment Approval Process and Recordation.

    A. Following a review by the Reviewing Departments, the City Council may approve the vacation or amend-
    ment of a plat by signing an amended plat showing the vacation or amendment if the Council finds that:

        1.      There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and

        2.      No public street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.

    B. The City Council shall ensure that the amended plat showing the vacation or amendment is recorded in the
    office of the County Recorder.

    C. An amended plat may not be submitted to the County Recorder for recording unless it is signed, acknowl-
    edged, and dedicated by each owner of record of the portion of the plat that is amended.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872                Property was incorporated into the original Lehi City boundary

April 2, 1973                City Council approved the Wathen Estates Subdivision


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Watson Acres Subdivision amending lot 7 of Wathen Estates Plat A. The
applicant purchased property from another landowner and intends to combine the two lots to build a detached struc-
ture. City Code does not allow an accessory building on a lot without a home, necessitating this amendment to
combine the two lots into one.

The proposed lot meets the requirements of the R-1-8 zone.

DRC reviewed the proposed plat amendment and had six redline comments including:
1. Existing 8' Easement should be preserved or vacated as part of this amended plat
2. Change “A minor Subdivision Plat” to “A residential Subdivision Plat”

Please include all DRC comments in your motion.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or approve with modifications the proposed plat Amendment. Any
motion should include findings. Possible findings include:
1.   The proposed plat amendment is/is not consistent with the character of the surrounding neighborhood.
2.   The proposed plat amendment meets/does not meet the requirements of the Development Code.
3.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public meeting.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           June 19, 2024

                                                Wathen Estates Plat Amendment
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Troy Watson- requests review of a plat amendment for Wathen Estates located at 1045 North 200 East combining two lots
into one.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: none present
Date of Plans Reviewed: 6/11/2024
Time Start:
Time End:


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering:
1. Existing 8' Easement should be preserved or vacated as part of this amended plat
2. Add “with additional land” after “being a vacation and amendment of Lot 7 Wathen Estates Plat A”.
3. Confirm whether or not other Public Utilities exist along the boundaries of this lot, and show them on the plat if they
    do exist.
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
4. Change “A minor Subdivision Plat” to “A residential Subdivision Plat”
5. Make sure spelling of Kristin is consistent on the plat
6. If you want, you can name the subdivision whatever you want, it does not have to be Wathen Estates Plat B but it can
    be.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 11th

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
