                              DRAPER ADDITION ZONE CHANGE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                   Applicant        DR Horton
                               Meeting Date         July 25, 2024
                    Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                    change
                              Decision Type         Legislative
                                   Location         Approximately 4400 North Horton Way
                                    Acreage         877.46 acres
                            Existing Zoning         None
    Existing General Plan Land Use Designa-         Various corresponding to Area Plan Designations
                                        tion
               Proposed Zoning Designation          Planned Community
                          Existing Land Use         Undeveloped Hillside
              Adjacent Zoning and Land Use          North Draper                  Single Family Homes/Hillside
                                                     South PC                     Texas Instruments Buffer
                                                      East PC/Draper              Undeveloped Hillside
                                                      West Unincorporated         Hillside
                           Date of DRC Review       July 3, 2024
                             Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                         Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                 City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should
consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
Accommodate a range of housing and neighborhood types suitable for a variety of lifestyles, ages, affordability
levels, and design options.




Draper Addition Zone Change
  PROPERTY HISTORY

December 11, 2012          City Council approved the Micron Area Plan

August 23, 2022            City Council approved the Skye Area Plan amending the Micron Area Plan and the Draper
                           Addition Municipal Boundary Line Adjustment adding this area into the City.

September 19, 2023         City Council approved the Skye Area Plan Second Amendment


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of a proposed zone change on 877.46 acres located at approxi-
mately 4400 North Horton Way. This is the land that came into the City in 2022 from Draper City. During that time
no zoning was designated. This proposed zone change amendment will officially designate it as Planned Community.
The Skye Area Plan Amendment Second Amendment indicated the land uses on this land and has already been
recorded. This zone change will not impact the Area Plan at all. And water has already been provided by DR Horton
for the development on this land.

A large portion of this area is also included in the 500 acres guaranteed to be preserved as undisturbed hillside.

The DRC had no redline comments.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative items which usually allow a level of discretion. However, where this is just cleaning up
the zoning designation for this land, the Planning Commission would have to provide strong reasons for not providing
a positive recommendation for the rezone of this property.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion should
include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed zone change is adding zoning on property that previously came into the City and currently
         has no zoning.
    2.   The proposed zoning is reflective of the existing General Plan Land Use designations.
    3.   The proposed zoning is consistent with the approved Skye Area Plan.
    4.   The proposed zone change is part of process that will allow the conservation of 500 acres.




Draper Addition Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          July 3, 2024

                                                 Draper Addition Zone Change
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

DR Horton- requests review of the Draper Addition Zone Designation to Planned Community on 877.46 acres located at
approximately 4400 North Center.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Jeff Stephenson and Ben Tuckett
Date of Plans Reviewed: 6/25/2024
Time Start: 2:05pm
Time End: 2:14pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey– Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments




THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 25th




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Draper Addition Zone Change
This property came into Lehi as part of the Draper- Lehi
Boundary Line Adjustment and was included in the Skye Area
Plan Second Amendment. We realized that zoning was never
assigned to the parcel. DR Horton requests Planned
Community (PC) zoning on these parcels in accordance with
the approved Skye Area Plan.

Parcels: 11:015:0007 and 11:015:0002
