           TEXAS INSTRUMENTS SKYE AREA PLAN AMENDMENT 2
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant       Texas Instruments
                            Meeting Date       July 25, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose       Review and recommendation of a proposed area plan amendment
                           Decision Type       Legislative
                    Date of DRC Review         July 10, 2024
                        Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                            City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 06.010 Purpose and Intent.
The intent of the Planned Community Zone and this Chapter is to:

A. Allow the City to encourage and facilitate more detailed and specific planning and analysis for certain areas of
   the City.
B. Establish provisions and requirements which enable the City to address unique areas of the City or where other
   characteristics exist that warrant a comprehensive set of land use policies and standards which will encourage
   an efficient and imaginative development pattern.
C. Provide an opportunity for flexibility from the constraints of traditional zoning and allow for development on a
   performance basis. Higher density and intensity of uses may be achieved as higher quality development and
   performance standards are implemented within the zone.
D. Provide a consolidated and structured framework for the processing of preliminary and final subdivision
   plat(s), preliminary and final site plans, and other permits and licenses required by this Code.

An application for approval of a Planned Community Zone is a request by the applicant for additional flexibility
beyond that allowed by the traditional zones within the City. It is the sole responsibility and burden of the appli-
cant to convince the Planning Commission and City Council that the proposed Planned Community Zone is prefer-
able to traditional zoning. Approval for use of the Planned Community Zone lies at the discretion of the City
Council.



  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of a proposed amendment to the Skye Area Plan switching the
location of 16-acres of the technical manufacturing buffer. This is similar to what was approved November 2, 2023
but is in a different area.

Rearranging the Skye Area Plan will allow for more area on the East side of the Texas Instruments property for their
LFAB2 expansion. The main reason for this amendment is to allow for the 30-foot side yard setback required in the
Technical Manufacturing Zone.

A zone change has also been submitted and is going forward at the same time. The zone change will change the
designation from Planned Community to Technical Manufacturing. This proposal is to change the boundary of the




TI Skye Area Plan Amendment
Skye Area Plan.

DRC reviewed the proposed area plan amendment and has one question to clarify the hatching on the map they
submitted, the applicant did provide an updated map that was included in the packet.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a legislative item the Planning Commission has full discretion to provide a positive recommendation on the Area
Plan Amendment or not. However, the Commission should consider that this will keep the acreage of the area plan
the same and just change the location.

The public can comment on the proposed Area Plan Amendment. Comments directed at potentially impacts of the
change and how the Area Plan could address those concerns are the most helpful.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed area plana amendment.
Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed area plan amendment will allow for Texas Instruments expansion while maintaining the 30
         foot side yard setback.
    2.   The proposed area plan amendment will provide the same amount of buffer area and will not increase the
         overall number of units in the area plan.
    3.   The proposed area plan does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in regards
         to area plan approval.
    4.   Other findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




TI Skye Area Plan Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 10, 2024

                                           TI LFAB2 Skye Area Plan Amendment 2
                                                 DRC Redline Comments

TI- requests review of the TI LFAB2 Skye Area Plan Amendment 2, adjusting the area plan area adding 16 acres and
removing 16 acres.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 7/2/2024
Time Start: 1:14pm
Time End: 1:15pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No Comments
Garion – Fire: No Comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No Comments
James – Parks: No Comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No Comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No Comments
Brad – Engineering: No Comments
Luke- Traffic: No Comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Provide legend with the hatchings


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 25th




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Ms. Brittney Harris                                               7/1/2024
Lehi City Planning Division
153 N 100E
Lehi, UT 84043



RE:    Texas Instruments - Proposed Zone Change and Skye Area Plan
       Amendment - Between Parcels 11:029:0043 and 11:029:0059

Brittney,

Please refer to the attached “Proposed Zone Change and Skye Area Plan Amendment” exhibit.
Texas Instruments is now programming the LFAB2 project. The LFAB2 project contemplates
doubling the manufacturing clean room space at the Lehi fabrication site (LFAB). The LFAB2
expansion will take place immediately East of the existing manufacturing complex.

On two parcels at the LFAB site, Texas Instrument’s proposes a balanced land use zone change.
The purpose of the proposed zone change is to facilitate a second manufacturing unit – LFAB2,
and in particular the new Wastewater Treatment Plant. LFAB2 will occupy an area East of the
existing manufacturing facility. Earlier this year, a Skye Area Plan and Zone change similar to
this proposal was approved and completed by Lehi City. Texas Instruments has been designing
LFAB2 site improvements this past Spring. The design team has chosen to position the future
Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) for LFAB2 near the the Southeast corner of the LFAB2
complex, which places the WWTP quite close to the recently adjusted parcel boundary. To
facilitate the final design of the LFAB2 WWTP, Texas Instruments is requesting a Skye Atrea
Plan Amendment and a Zone Change, so a Lot-Line-Adjustment can be completed.

Texas Instruments proposes to modify the boundary Parcel 11:029:0059, and at the same time
modify the southern boundary of Parcel 11:029:0043 to increase the width of the TMB zoned
land along LFAB’s Timpanogos Highway frontage. The total land area of both the existing TM
and TMB zones will remain unchanged by this proposal. This zone change proposes only to
change the shape of existing land use zones on the LFAB site by swapping 16 acres of each
existing zone and maintaining the existing land area balance between the TMB and TM zones.




898 East Riparian Drive, Draper Utah, 84020
Please contact me if you have any questions regarding this transmittal.

Thank you,

“Jack”

John R. Berry PE, PLS
Rockhill LLC
jack@rockhillengineering.com




898 East Riparian Drive, Draper Utah, 84020
