                                      TI LFAB2 ZONE CHANGE 2
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                   Applicant        Texas Instruments
                               Meeting Date         July 16, 2024
                    Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                    change
                              Decision Type         Legislative
                                   Location         4000 N Flash Drive
                                    Acreage         32 acres
                            Existing Zoning         Planned Community(PC)/ Technical Manufacturing (T-M)
    Existing General Plan Land Use Designa-         Technical Manufacturing/ Open Space
                                        tion
               Proposed Zoning Designation          Planned Community(PC)/ Technical Manufacturing (T-M)
                          Existing Land Use         Undeveloped
                        Date of DRC Review          July 10, 2024
                           Assigned Planner         Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                         Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                 City Council       Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should
consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


 PROPERTY HISTORY

June 21, 1995              Property came into the City as part of the Micron Annexation

September 19, 2023         The City Council approved the Skye Area Plan Second Amendment

December 12, 2023          The City Council approved the Texas Instruments LFAB2 Zone Change and Area Plan
                           Amendment




Texas Instruments Zone Change
  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant seeks review and recommendation of proposed zone changes on two pieces of property located on the
Texas Instruments site at 4000 North Flash Drive. This is very similar to what was approved before but in a different
area and with less acreage.

The 16-acre piece to the south of the facility along Timpanogos Highway is currently zoned Technical Manufactur-
ing, and the proposal is to change it to Planned Community with the technical manufacturing buffer land use. Another
16-acre piece to the southeast of the existing facility will change from Planned Community to Technical Manufac-
turing. This proposal will help with the future expansion of the Texas Instruments operation, specifically to meet the
30-foot side yard setback required in the Technical Manufacturing zone.

The DRC reviewed the proposed zone change and had one redline comment to provide a legend for the hatching on
the map, the applicant did update the map and it was included in the packet.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative items, providing the Planning Commission some discretion in whether they approve
them.

The public can speak to the proposed zone change. Comments about the impact of changing the zoning on these
parcels would be the most beneficial.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed zone change will allow for the same amount of technical manufacturing buffer and technical
         manufacturing.
    2.   The proposed zone change will help with the future expansion of Texas Instruments.




Texas Instruments Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          July 10, 2024

                                                    TI LFAB2 Zone Change 2
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

TI- requests review of the TI LFAB2 Zone Change 2 changing 16 acres from Planned Community to Technical
Manufacturing and 16 acres from Technical manufacturing to Planned Community

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 7/2/2024
Time Start: 1:11pm
Time End: 1:14pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No Comments
Garion – Fire: No Comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No Comments
James – Parks: No Comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No Comments
Shelbey– Public Works: No Comments
Brad – Engineering: No Comments
Kim – Planning:
1. A legend for the different hatching would be helpful to more easily understand this map. Or remove all other hatchings
    and just highlight the zone change areas in two colors.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 25th




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Ms. Brittney Harris                                               7/1/2024
Lehi City Planning Division
153 N 100E
Lehi, UT 84043



RE:    Texas Instruments - Proposed Zone Change and Skye Area Plan
       Amendment - Between Parcels 11:029:0043 and 11:029:0059

Brittney,

Please refer to the attached “Proposed Zone Change and Skye Area Plan Amendment” exhibit.
Texas Instruments is now programming the LFAB2 project. The LFAB2 project contemplates
doubling the manufacturing clean room space at the Lehi fabrication site (LFAB). The LFAB2
expansion will take place immediately East of the existing manufacturing complex.

On two parcels at the LFAB site, Texas Instrument’s proposes a balanced land use zone change.
The purpose of the proposed zone change is to facilitate a second manufacturing unit – LFAB2,
and in particular the new Wastewater Treatment Plant. LFAB2 will occupy an area East of the
existing manufacturing facility. Earlier this year, a Skye Area Plan and Zone change similar to
this proposal was approved and completed by Lehi City. Texas Instruments has been designing
LFAB2 site improvements this past Spring. The design team has chosen to position the future
Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) for LFAB2 near the the Southeast corner of the LFAB2
complex, which places the WWTP quite close to the recently adjusted parcel boundary. To
facilitate the final design of the LFAB2 WWTP, Texas Instruments is requesting a Skye Atrea
Plan Amendment and a Zone Change, so a Lot-Line-Adjustment can be completed.

Texas Instruments proposes to modify the boundary Parcel 11:029:0059, and at the same time
modify the southern boundary of Parcel 11:029:0043 to increase the width of the TMB zoned
land along LFAB’s Timpanogos Highway frontage. The total land area of both the existing TM
and TMB zones will remain unchanged by this proposal. This zone change proposes only to
change the shape of existing land use zones on the LFAB site by swapping 16 acres of each
existing zone and maintaining the existing land area balance between the TMB and TM zones.




898 East Riparian Drive, Draper Utah, 84020
Please contact me if you have any questions regarding this transmittal.

Thank you,

“Jack”

John R. Berry PE, PLS
Rockhill LLC
jack@rockhillengineering.com




898 East Riparian Drive, Draper Utah, 84020
