                                SKYE AREA PLAN AMENDMENT
                               CIVIC SITES DESIGN STANDARDS
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant       CORE Architecture
                            Meeting Date       August 8, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose       Review and recommendation of a proposed area plan amendment
                           Decision Type       Legislative
                    Date of DRC Review         July 10, 2024
                        Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                            City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 06.010 Purpose and Intent.
The intent of the Planned Community Zone and this Chapter is to:

A. Allow the City to encourage and facilitate more detailed and specific planning and analysis for certain areas of
   the City.
B. Establish provisions and requirements which enable the City to address unique areas of the City or where other
   characteristics exist that warrant a comprehensive set of land use policies and standards which will encourage
   an efficient and imaginative development pattern.
C. Provide an opportunity for flexibility from the constraints of traditional zoning and allow for development on a
   performance basis. Higher density and intensity of uses may be achieved as higher quality development and
   performance standards are implemented within the zone.
D. Provide a consolidated and structured framework for the processing of preliminary and final subdivision
   plat(s), preliminary and final site plans, and other permits and licenses required by this Code.

An application for approval of a Planned Community Zone is a request by the applicant for additional flexibility
beyond that allowed by the traditional zones within the City. It is the sole responsibility and burden of the appli-
cant to convince the Planning Commission and City Council that the proposed Planned Community Zone is prefer-
able to traditional zoning. Approval for use of the Planned Community Zone lies at the discretion of the City
Council.

Section 06.020 Planned Community Description.
Each Planned Community Zone should include a cohesive mixture of land uses, including commercial and/or busi-
ness park uses, which will provide services and employment opportunities to residents within the community. Resi-
dential uses should provide a range of housing types and densities to accommodate a variety of age and income
groups and residential preferences, so that the community’s demographic diversity is maintained. Commercial uses
should focus on retail services for the residents of the community and must include a unifying design theme which
compliments the residential areas. Residential and commercial land uses should be integrated to promote a walkable,
sustainable community.
Development should promote creative lot configuration with usable public and private recreation areas, parks, trails
and open space with assurance of maintenance. Preservation of open space and critical environmental areas is also
highly encouraged through the use of clustering and other innovative development options where a standard lot pat-
tern is not practical or desirable due to physical constraints.




Skye Area Plan Second Amendment
Section 06.030 Design Compatibility.
Development within a Planned Community Zone should promote attractive, unified architectural design. Develop-
ment should be planned as one complex land use with a common architectural design theme that provides variety
within a context of architectural compatibility, rather than an aggregation of individual, unrelated buildings located
on separate, unrelated lots. In order to ensure that development within the Planned Community Zone is compatible
and meets the purposes of this Chapter, the Planning Commission may recommend and the City Council may require
that certain design guidelines be employed as part of the approval of an Area Plan for a PC Zone. The design
guidelines may include, but are not limited to, architectural controls, colors, materials, building mass, innovative
design of buildings and access, and any other features deemed appropriate by the City Council. As part of the design
guidelines for any Planned Community Zone each single family detached or attached dwelling shall include, as a
minimum standard, an enclosed one (1) car garage.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of proposed amendments to the Skye Area Plan adding design
requirements for the Civic Land Use areas. This item was tabled at the July 25, 2024 meeting. The applicant made
updates including adding a small and large civic site definition and modified a few requirements.

The proposed amendment will impact two properties with “civic” designations in the area plan. Both of these prop-
erties are intended for use by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Both with have chapels on them and
one will have the future Lehi Temple.

The existing Skye Area Plan does not have design requirements for the civic sites which would leave them to all of
the requirements for the General Nonresidential Design District in the Development Code. These standards do not
quite fit the typical temple or church architecture and other requirements. The applicant proposes the following
changes.

First the applicant changed some of the wording in the existing Area Plan to make it clear that the design requirements
only apply to residential development.

Next, the applicant proposes changes to the General Nonresidential Design Standards as they would apply to the
civic site. They started with the standards to simplify the exceptions and show the specific items they want to change
the requirements. These things include not orienting the building to the corner, not requiring a certain percentage of
glass on the façade facing the street, removing some specific architectural requirements, and a few other changes
including reducing the amount of bike parking required.

The applicant also requests changes to the Chapter 12 lighting requirements. These standards are there to preserve
the dark sky. The temples include upward lighting onto the façade. The proposed amendment would allow some of
this lighting on the facades, monument signs and the flags at a maximum of 10 foot-candles. The building towers
and steeples would have a maximum of 12 foot-candles.

The DRC reviewed the proposed changes and had one comment to add trails. The applicant has already made the
requested change.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Area Plan Amendments are a legislative item with a large amount of discretion by the Planning Commission. They
may consider if these changes will meet the intent of the design requirements and lighting ordinances.

The public may also speak to this item. Comments focused on specific concerns and changes are the most helpful to
the Planning Commission.




Skye Area Plan Second Amendment
 POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed area plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed area plan amendment allows flexibility with the design requirements and will/will not pre-
         serve the intent of the design requirements.
    2.   The proposed area plan amendment will/will not provide a quality community in Lehi City.
    3.   Other findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Skye Area Plan Second Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 10, 2024

                                                  Skye Area Plan Amendment
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

CORE Architecture- requests review of the Skye Area Plan Amendment adding design requirements for the Civic Land
Uses
DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Curtis Miner
Date of Plans Reviewed: 7/2/2024
Time Start: 1:03pm
Time End: 1:08pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No Comments
Garion – Fire: No Comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No Comments
James – Parks: No Comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No Comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No Comments
Brad – Engineering: No Comments
Luke- Traffic: No Comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Section 4.vii.2 add “or trail”

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 25th




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
