                         ALLISON FLAG LOT CONDITIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Lory Costello Neeley
                         Meeting Date         August 8, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use flag lot.
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        2145 W 700 S
                          Project Area        0.95 acres
                       Existing Zoning        RA-1
              General Plan Designation        VLDRA
                    Existing Land Use         Single family residential
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North R-1-12                    Dapple Gray Trails Plat A Subdi-
                                                                                 vision
                                                 South R-1-22                    Ward Meadows Subdivision
                                                  East R-1-12                    Wardxing Plat B Subdivision
                                                  West RA-1                      Stone’s Corner Subdivision
                     Date of DRC Review       July 17, 2024
                       Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval
                           City Council       No action required


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.

                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest

     PROPERTY HISTORY

August 17, 2004- Property was annexed into Lehi City with the Barber Addition.
May 14, 2024- A zone change was approved by the City Council to change the zoning from TH-5 to RA-1..

     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Allison Flag Lot Conditional Use located at 2145 W 700 S in the RA-1 zone.
The proposed lots both exceed the minimum 15,000 square foot lot size for the RA-1 zone. The front lot also meets
the 100 feet of frontage, and the proposed stem portion of the flag lot exceeds the 20-foot-wide access requirement.
All of the lot requirements for the RA-1 zone and the flag lot requirements have been met.

The flag lot is a conditional use and reasonable conditions can be placed on the use including things such as the
orientation of the home, fencing, etc.

The DRC reviewed the proposed flag lot and had four redline comments including:
1. Identify the material used for this driveway. Concrete, Asphalt, Pavers?

Please include all DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional uses are allowed uses that can have reasonable conditions put on them. This means that the Planning
Commission must approve the use unless there are legitimate concerns to the health, safety or welfare of the commu-
nity.

The public can speak to this item. Comments focused on potential negative impacts of the use and conditions (like
fencing) that could be put in place to mitigate the negative impacts are the most useful kind of comments.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed flag lot conditional use. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed lots meet the RA-1 zone and flag lot requirements.
2.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
3.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
4.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                       2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 17, 2024

                                                        Allison Flag Lot
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Lory Costello Neeley- requests review of a conditional use permit for the Allison Flag Lot located at 2145 West 700
South.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Matt Brown, Jaxon Brown
Date of Plans Reviewed: 7/9/2024
Time Start: 1:06 pm
Time End: 1:10 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire:
1. Identify the material used for this driveway. Concrete, Asphalt, Pavers?
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISION ON AUGUST 8, 2024.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
April 3, 2024

Lehi City Development Review Committee
153 North 100 East
Lehi, Utah 84043
(385) 201-1000

Re:    Conditional Use Permit Application
       Allison Subdivision

To whom it may concern,

On behalf of our client and the property owner, Lory Costello-Neeley, we are submitting applications
for a Two-Lot Subdivision with Existing Home and a Conditional Use Permit for the property located at
2145 West 700 South in Lehi, Utah. We propose to subdivide this parcel into two lots according to Lehi
Cities Flag Lot Requirements and Development Standards.

The proposed subdivision and corresponding flag lot will not affect the character or uses of the
surrounding properties, as they are already low-density residential properties and the neighboring lot to
the west is an existing flag lot. It also will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, welfare, or
convenience of the citizens of Lehi City whom live near this property.

The proposed flag lot has been carefully analyzed and designed to meet the requirements of Section
12.210 of the Lehi City Development Code. Furthermore, it is our opinion that the proposed flag lot is in
compliance with the goals and policies of the Lehi City General Plan. The proposed subdivision creates
two lots, both meeting the RA-1 zoning requirements. The proposed flag lot is of adequate size and
dimensions to allow for construction of a new single-family home and corresponding improvements
(landscaping, driveway, etc.), while not being detrimental to the adjoining properties in the area.

We appreciate your consideration of these applications. Please contact me directly if you have any
questions related to this proposed Conditional Use Permit application.

Sincerely,

Mitchell M. Brown
Mitch Brown, E.I.T.
MW Brown Engineering, Inc.
