                         PIONEER VILLAGE (BCP) ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                     Applicant        Flagship Homes
                                 Meeting Date         August 22, 2024
                      Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                      change
                              Decision Type           Legislative
                                   Location           Approximately 1200 West 1450 South
                                    Acreage           14.19 acres
                            Existing Zoning           TH-5
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           VLDRA
               Proposed Zoning Designation            R-1-22
                          Existing Land Use           Undeveloped
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North TH-5                Agriculture
                                                       South PF                 Dry Creek Elementary
                                                        East TH-5               Single family residential/Agriculture
                                                        West PF                 Open Space-Future Park
                            Date of DRC Review        July 31, 2024
                              Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                           Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                   City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL (VLDRA) The purpose of the Very Low Density Resi-
dential/Agricultural (VLDRA) classification is to provide for single-family residential areas within a rural setting, with
an overall neighborhood density not to exceed 1.75 units per acre. Much of the area designated as VLDRA is located




Pioneer Village (BCP) Zone Change
where small-scale farming, hobby farming, or other agricultural uses are present. Where new development is allowed
adjacent to existing agricultural areas, the new development must be sensitive to the existing uses. Larger lot sizes and
lower density zones that allow for animal rights will be encouraged where adjacent to such agricultural areas. In par-
ticular, provision should be made for hobby farms, ranchettes, or equestrian-related developments where the develop-
ment is to be located adjacent to similar existing uses.

The VLDRA designation is also intended to encourage creativity and flexibility of planning and design through the use
of Planned Residential Design projects and Planned Unit Developments, where clustering and open space, with a varie-
ty of lot sizes and a range of housing choices can be accomplished while still maintaining a base density of 1.75 units
per acre. Although new development in VLDRA areas is allowed, the existing agricultural uses will be encouraged to
remain. Growth should be directed in an orderly manner, growing outward from existing developed areas where public
facilities are available.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

December 16, 2022           The BCP annexation was recorded for this property with a zoning of TH-5.

August 8, 2023              The Dry Creek Village Zone Change to MU was denied by the City Council.

April 23, 2024              The BCP Property LDR General Plan Amendment was denied by the City Council.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from TH-5 to R-1-22 on 14.19 acres
located at approximately 1200 West 1450 South. The zone change is consistent with the General Plan and a concept
was not submitted at this time.

There was one comments from the DRC relating to water dedication:
1. Water dedication will be required as a condition of recording the zone change ordinance. The amount of dedication
    is .79 acre feet per acre of culinary water and 2.90 acre feet per acre of irrigation water.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative decisions. However, zone changes that meet the General Plan must be approved unless
strong reasons are provided for the detriment that the zone change would cause to the City.

The public can comment on zone changes but should understand that this proposed zone change meets the General Plan
so significant reasons would need to be provided to deny the proposed zone change.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by




Pioneer Village (BCP) Zone Change
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Pioneer Village (BCP) Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          July 31, 2024

                                                  Pioneer Village Zone Change
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Flagship- requests review of the Pioneer Village Zone Change located at ??? changing the zoning on 14.19 acres from
TH-5 to R-1-22.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Tony Trane
Date of Plans Reviewed: 7/16/2024
Time Start: 2:22 pm
Time End: 2:23 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No Comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey– Public Works: No Comments
Brad/ Gary– Engineering: No Comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Water dedication will be required as a condition of recording the zone change ordinance. The amount of dedication is
    .79 acre feet per acre of culinary water and 2.90 acre feet per acre of irrigation water.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON AUGUST 22, 2024 (NEED ENVELOPES
BEFORE SCHEDULING)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
4/10/23

Lehi City
Attn: City Council and Staff

Subject: Pioneer Village Zone Change


The property owner, BCP Development, located at 1450 South 1300 East (serial numbers
13:030:0018 and 13:030:0089) is requesting a zone change for the Lehi City zoning map of for a
portion of the property (approximately 14.19 acres) within the general plan designation for the
VLDRA. This zone change submittal is requesting approximately 14.19 acres to change the
zoning designation to R-1-22 from the current TH-5 zoning. We feel this is an appropriate
request based on the criteria below:

(a) In general, the topography, vegetation, and other natural features present on the property of
the proposed zone change is flat farm land.


(b) The existing land use(s) of the property proposed for zone change and those requested by
the owner are currently used as farm land.


(c) The current and potential (if the property were developed) population and residential density
of the proposed area has been outlined in the City General Plan. This property was originally
shown as a potential overlay zone with a potential density for the overall area of 500 units.
After going through a lengthy process, it was determined that the overlay zone was not
appropriate at this time and the direction was given to stay with the underlying VLDRA and
requested zone of R-1-22.

(d) The proposed zone change will comply with and achieve Lehi City’s land use(s), goals and
policies outlined in the Lehi City General Plan by flowing the recommendation in the General Plan
amendment recently adopted by Lehi City and through the direction and collaboration with City
Staff. The intent is to work with the City to develop a layout of the property that will also be a
benefit for the future park to the West and could also help the traffic conditions by working with
the City to provide additional access between 1100 West and 1700 West.


The overall direction from Lehi City has been to coordinate this area to match the surrounding
developments. The R-1-22 zoning will be in line with the current developed lot which are ¼ to ½
acre in size. We feel that this is an appropriate request for the amendment to the zoning plan.
