                             Applicant        AF Stores
                         Meeting Date         August 22, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use and site plan
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        760 East Main Street
                       Existing Zoning        C
              General Plan Designation        C
                    Existing Land Use         Grocery Store & Pharmacy
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North C                         Parking Lot
                                                 South RA-1                      Single family residential
                                                  East C                         Additional shops & parking
                                                  West TH-5                      Single family residential
                     Date of DRC Review       August 7, 2024
                       Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis


                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval
                           City Council       No action required




Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.

                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest




The applicant is requesting approval of a conditional use permit for a drive thru addition to the pharmacy portion of
the existing Macey’s store at 760 East Main Street. Drive through facilities incidental to an allowed use (pharmacy)
is a conditionally allowed use in the commercial zone.

The drive thru would be located on the west side of the building.

The DRC had twelve comments, including the following:
1. Consider implementing several types of rock mulch. Consider gray colored rock or darker mulch/ cobble.
    Darker colored rock mulch may help to reduce the starkness of the white fence and white building.
2. The proposed landscape could definitely benefit from more greater imagination and dedication regarding the
    design. Our recommendation would be to implement more evergreen shrubs and trees. We have created a list
    of more desirable evergreen trees that will help the site provide better buffer.
3. Current plan does not satisfy the 50% plant coverage at maturity. Please add additional plant material.
4. Please add deciduous trees to site to improve the buffering. The tree requirement is 30 trees per site acre.
5. Chapter 12 discusses buffering and screening requirements for commercial buildings adjacent residential.
    Please review and apply these standards to this space.
6. The overall Macey's site needs to maintain the minimum 10% overall landscaping requirement. The applicant
    needs to calculate the current percentage of overall landscaping and confirm that the drive-thru doesn't drop the
    site below the 10%.
7. Consider a sidewalk connection that provides better access to the site and store from 200 S. A walkway would
    typically be required for a project like this from a new-build standpoint.

Please consider all of the DRC comments in the motion.




Conditional uses are allowed uses that can have reasonable conditions put on them. This means that the Planning
Commission must approve the use unless there are legitimate concerns to the health, safety or welfare of the commu-
nity.

The public can speak to this item. Comments focused on potential negative impacts of the use and conditions (like
fencing) that could be put in place to mitigate the negative impacts are the most useful kind of comments.




The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed conditional use and site plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.   The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
     in the vicinity.
2.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
     of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
3.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
     and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
     be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.



                                                                                                                       2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           August 7, 2024

                                             Macey’s Store Conditional Use Permit
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

AF Stores- requests review of a conditional use permit for a drive through addition to the existing Macey’s Store at 760
East Main Street.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Jen whitely, Jared Mitchell
Date of Plans Reviewed: 7/30/2024
Time Start: 1:17 pm
Time End: 1:30 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
1. show and label existing 8'' pi main and 6'' fire line going into Macey's building.
2. Show and label 20' water line easement centered on PI main in favor of lehi city.
3. Storm drain piping will not be allowed with in the easement.
4. There is a existing 8'' ADS running south out of existing box. dont' know what it ties into?
5. this existing 12'' storm drain does not tie into inlet box.
James – Parks: (jfarnsworth@lehi-ut.gov)
6. Consider implementing several types of rock mulch. Consider gray colored rock or darker mulch/ cobble. Darker
    colored rock mulch may help to reduce the starkness of the white fence and white building.
7. The proposed landscape could definitely benefit from more greater imagination and dedication regarding the design.
    Our recommendation would be to implement more evergreen shrubs and trees. We have created a list of more
    desirable evergreen trees that will help the site provide better buffer.
8. Current plan does not satisfy the 50% plant coverage at maturity. Please add additional plant material.
9. Please add deciduous trees to site to improve the buffering. The tree requirement is 30 trees per site acre.
10. Chapter 12 discusses buffering and screening requirements for commercial buildings adjacent residential. Please
    review and apply these standards to this space.
Gary S– Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments. See Prior to Precon (General Comment 2)
Gary E – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
11. The overall Macey's site needs to maintain the minimum 10% overall landscaping requirement. The applicant needs to
    calculate the current percentage of overall landscaping and confirm that the drive-thru doesn't drop the site below the
    10%.
12. Consider a sidewalk connection that provides better access to the site and store from 200 S. A walkway would typically
    be required for a project like this from a new-build standpoint.

General Comments
1. Drive through facilities incidental to an allowed use (pharmacy) is a conditionally allowed use in the commercial zone.
2. SSOMP will be required prior to precon (Find on Stormwater page)
3. A building permit will be required before remodeling the building.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON AUGUST 22, 2024.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (TAIILGATE)



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
