              CRITICAL HOMEOWNERSHIP OVERLAY ZONE (CHOZ)
                             DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant        Lehi City
                           Meeting Date         August 22, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation on proposed amendments to the Lehi City
                                                Development Code
                            Decision Type       Legislative
                      Date of DRC Review        August 7, 2024

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                             City Council       Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General Plan.
In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and the City
Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties.
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


 APPLICABLE MODERATE INCOME HOUSING GOAL

Goal 6 Demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the housing needs of resi-
dents of the county/municipality who earn less than 80% of the area median income, including the dedication
of a local funding source to moderate income housing or the adoption of a land use ordinance that requires
10% or more of new residential development in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate income housing

         Strategy 1: Work with the development community to create a proposal to amend the Development Code
         to create an affordable housing overlay zone
              • Create a draft for an attainable housing overlay zone that allows a Development Agreement be-
                  tween the City and the Developer
              • Work with the Planning Commission and City Council to get it approved




Critical Homeownership Overlay Zone
  REPORT ANALYSIS

Lehi City requests review and recommendation of the proposed Critical Homeownership Overlay Zone (CHOZ) De-
velopment Code Amendment. This proposed amendment will create a new overlay zone and mechanism for providing
attainable housing. The proposed amendment has been a coordinated effort with members of the City Council, the
Development Community, and City Staff. Several meetings over the course of months have been held, many people
have reviewed the proposed Development Code and multiple changes have been made. This truly represents a coop-
erative effort to find solutions to the housing affordability problem.

The proposed Development Code Amendment is aimed at attainable housing not affordable housing. Affordable hous-
ing is defined as affordable for people who make 80 percent or less of the Area Median Income (AMI). Several
developers have indicated that with current development costs it is not possible to reach affordability in a for sale
product. Affordability can be created in the rental space and usually with large government subsidies, So, the intent
of this Code addition is not to provide housing below Area Median Income but below Market Value. In other words,
it is aiming to provide a starter home product that is not currently being provided with the goal of helping first time
home buyers. The proposed code does not require any ongoing government subsidies, just an allowance of extra
density at the beginning, and should still allow the developer to make a profit. Creating this type of scenario where
everyone gets a win makes this a scalable solution that can work for years to come.

The proposed code outlines the steps and requirements for a developer to get this overlay zone approved. It will be by
a Development Agreement which allows some flexibility based on each unique property. In every case, it requires a
sales price at least 20 percent below the market value of comparable homes on the original lot size.

The idea behind the code is that a developer can buy a piece of land at a lower value because it is zoned for larger lots.
The developer then asks for an increase in density with an agreement that the homes will be less expensive in the end.
This in many cases will require not only that the lot is smaller, but also that the home on the lot is smaller.

To encourage homeownership and for people to live in it for a while, the amount of equity that can be realized by the
homeowner selling the property is restricted for the first ten years. After the first ten years, the restriction comes to an
end and the owner can sell the home for whatever market value is at that time. Again, these homes will be on smaller
lots and probably be smaller homes so they should still provide a more affordable option even after the first 10 years.

The DRC reviewed the proposed Development Code Amendment a few times, and all the comments have been ad-
dressed in the updated draft included in the Planning Commission packet.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Development Code amendments are a fully discretionary item. This means that the public can recommend any changes
and the Planning Commission can include in their motion any updates or changes they would like to see. As legislative
items the City Council has the final say on if it gets approved or not and if any changes are required.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendments to the Lehi City
Development Code. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed Development Code Amendment will meet one of the City’s Moderate Income Housing Goals.
    2.   The proposed Development Code Amendment will/will not help provide attainable housing and starter homes
         within Lehi City.
    3.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provi-
         sions of the General Plan and its various elements.
    4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Critical Homeownership Overlay Zone
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           August 7, 2024

                         Critical Homeownership Overlay Zone Development Code Amendment
                                              DRC Redline Comments

Lehi City- requests review of the Critical Homeownership Overlay Zone Development Code Amendment

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Jason Harris
Date of Plans Reviewed: 7/30/2024
Time Start: 4:50 pm
Time End: 6:10pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
1. Does it need to be defined who will be responsible to regulate and screen the buyers at initial sale and the sale of the
    homes before the 10-year mark?
2. However, if infrastructure capacity is determined to not be available at the DRC stage, then the project may not be
    allowed to move forward to Planning Commission.
3. "Critical Infrastructure" must be more-clearly defined within the definitions but may include:
    * Culinary and Pressurized Irrigation water rights, source, storage, delivery capacity, etc
    * Sewer pipeline capacity
    * Power sourcing, redundancy, etc.
    * Adverse traffic impacts and roadway capacities
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
4. Unless specific conditions exist requiring an HOA as determined by the City Council
5. Concerns with Engineering’s comment 4. Planning still believes projects should be allowed to move forward if the
    applicant determines they can finance the needed infrastructure and still provide it at 20% below. Planning feels these
    projects should be allowed to move forward with the redline comments.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON AUGUST 22, 2024




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
LEHI CITY DEVELOPMENT CODE CHAPTER 5-A

CRITICAL HOMEOWNERSHIP OVERLAY ZONE (CHOZ)

Section 5A.010. Definitions
Section 5A.020. Purpose
Section5A.030. Description
Section5A.040. Allowed Uses
Section 5A.050. Requirements for CHOZ Projects.
Section 5A.060. Approval Process.
Section5A.070. Amendments to Development Plan.


Section. XX.010. Definitions.

For purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions apply:

  a) “Critical and Essential Workers” means persons who are actively employed within the Lehi City
      boundary at jobs considered critical and essential, including employees of Lehi City, and
      employees in the sectors of health care, education, childcare, religion, charity, retail, public safety,
      other government entities and transportation.
  b) “Critical Infrastructure” means the subdivision improvements required for residential development
      in the CHOZ and may include, but is not limited to, an analysis of the culinary and pressurized
      irrigation water rights, source, storage and delivery capacity; sewer pipeline capacity; power
      sourcing, redundancy; adverse traffic impacts and roadway capacities.
  c) “Legitimate Offer” means a qualified offer to purchase a residential unit, with assurances of the
      means to complete the purchase, of at least the average sales price of other comparable units in
      the Development over the past twelve months.
  d) “Lehi Resident” means a person whose permanent residence has been within the boundaries of
      Lehi City for each of the past twelve months.
  e) “Owner Occupied” means occupied by the owner of the residential unit or their immediate family
      member, including the trustee or beneficiary of a trust or their immediate family member.
Section. XX.020. Purpose.

The Critical Homeownership Overlay Zone (CHOZ) is an overlay zone to be applied over an underlying
zoning designation. The CHOZ may be allowed at the discretion of the City Council in any part of the
City by complying with the provisions of this Chapter. The Critical Homeownership Overlay Zone has no
minimum acre size and need not be adjacent to other CHOZ zones. The Critical Homeownership Overlay
Zone provisions of this Code are a zoning district that will create homeownership opportunities for
Critical and Essential Workers and others by increasing the number of financially attainable single family
detached homes within the City. The intent is to:

    • make single family housing significantly more attainable for the majority of current and future Lehi
          residents who desire to own a home;
    • provide priority opportunities for homeownership to Critical and Essential Workers;
    • integrate a variety of housing choices into all parts of Lehi City appropriate for residents in all
          stages of life;
    • provide flexible development options for single family detached housing where the standard lot
          pattern and typical development standards do not provide attainability;
    • provide flexibility in architectural design, placement of buildings, setbacks, parking, and other
          related cost saving considerations;
      • support reductions in development costs and ongoing maintenance costs to aid in significantly
           reducing the cost of the homes being built in the CHOZ;
      • provide for efficient use of public services and improvements;
      • promote an attractive and safe living environment;
      • Provide pride and stability through homeowners that will provide city residents with a higher life
           satisfaction and perceived control over their lives;

Section XX.030. Description.
A Critical Homeownership Development is a subdivision containing houses and dwelling units with
some or all of the lots sizes reduced below the minimum lot sizes typically required in zoning district
upon or adjacent to the subject property, with the intent of the home sales price being at least twenty
percent (20%) lower than the average market price of new single family detached homes on lot sizes and
home square footage similar to those in the Base Concept. These projects require that the planning for
lots and the locations of houses and dwellings be achieved in a coordinated, functional and unified
manner, with the final home sale price as the foundation for design. Because the intent is to provide
increased attainable housing availability without increasing infrastructure costs, greater flexibility in
development standards is possible while maintaining the beauty and desirability of the community.

Section XX.040. Allowed Uses.
The Critical Homeownership Overlay Zone allows a variety of single family detached residential types
that meet the purpose outlined above as a permitted use. Attached residential homes may be considered
when they create attainable Target Price homeownership opportunities in areas that do not have a land
mass that can support single family detached homes but makes sense for residential development and
affordability. Critical Homeownership Overlay Zones are intended to be of such size and location to not
require commercial or other uses except residential, but may be located near such uses.

Section XX.050. Requirements for Critical Homeownership Overlay Zone Projects.
A.    Qualifying Districts. Critical Homeownership Developments may be allowed at the discretion of
the City Council, with review and recommendation by City Staff and the Planning Commission public
hearing, in all parts of the City.

B.     Density and Design. The overall project density in a particular Critical Homeownership Overlay
Zone, the design of the subdivision and units, and applicable development standards will be determined
by the City Council and memorialized in a development agreement, following a recommendation from
the Planning Commission, and review by the reviewing departments to evaluate utility and other critical
infrastructure capacities and in consideration of the Target Price (defined below). No minimum density
is required.

C.    Critical and Essential Housing. To ensure that all units in the Critical Homeownership Overlay
Zone remain attainable to the target customers, the Units within the CHOZ shall be subject to recorded
deed restrictions, enforceable by the City, that contain at least the following:

     1. The deed restrictions shall be in effect and applicable to the units for no less than ten years
        following the issuance of the first certificate of occupancy for each home. Following the expiration
        of the deed restriction, they shall have no further force nor effect.
     2. Units must be owner occupied, unless the owner is on active military duty or full-time religious
        service, in which case the unit may be temporarily rented.
     3. Units may not be sold or transferred sooner than twelve months following the initial sale, unless
        the owner is on active military duty or full time religious service;
     4. For the first 30 days after a unit is listed or advertised as available for sale, including subsequent
        sales following the initial sale, the owner may not accept an offer to purchase unless such offer
        comes from one or more of the following:
             (a) Critical and Essential Workers,
             (b) a Lehi Resident who does not currently own a home, or
             (c) a first-time homebuyer.
     5. If, after 30 days of listing or advertising the unit for sale including on, but not limited to, the local
        MLS an owner has not received a Legitimate Offer from a person listed in the previous paragraph,
        then the owner may offer the property to the general public and accept offers therefrom.
     6. Developer shall, in the initial sale of the Property, accept a price no more than 5% different from
        the Target Price (defined below).
     7. Sales of units shall be price-controlled up to 10 years until the expiration of the deed restriction,
        so that each year following the establishment thereof, a home sale may capture no more home
        equity than thel percentage of the difference between appraised home sales price above the Target
        Price, in accordance with the following formula and illustration: (A – B) x C = Z

                                                                                  Example
     Years following          Allowed % of            Example Target                               Example Maximum
                                                                               Appraised Value
       Initial Sale           Equity ("C")              Price ("B")                                   Equity ("Z")
                                                                                    ("A")
         Prior to 1 year                     0%                 $500,000                 $505,000                    $0
              Prior to 2                   10%                  $500,000                 $510,000                $1,000
              Prior to 3                   20%                  $500,000                 $520,000                $4,000
              Prior to 4                   30%                  $500,000                 $530,000                $9,000
              Prior to 5                   40%                  $500,000                 $540,000              $16,000
              Prior to 6                   50%                  $500,000                 $550,000              $25,000
              Prior to 7                   60%                  $500,000                 $560,000              $36,000
              Prior to 8                   70%                  $500,000                 $570,000              $49,000
              Prior to 9                   80%                  $500,000                 $580,000              $64,000
             Prior to 10                   90%                  $500,000                 $590,000              $81,000
                    10+      Restriction expired      Restriction expired      Restriction expired  Restriction expired

Section XX.060. Approval Process.
Critical Homeownership Developments, are to be reviewed and approved in accordance with the
following process:

A.      Establishment of Target Price. The density, design, configuration, and development standards of
        the subdivision and dwelling units shall enable initial home sales at a target price established by
        the City Council. The City Council, after receiving a recommendation from the Economic
        Development Director, and in consultation with City departments, shall establish a target initial
        home sales price (“Target Price”). The Target Price should be at least twenty percent (20%) lower
        than the average market price of new single family detached homes on lot sizes and home square
        footage similar to those in the Base Concept that have been constructed within 12 months of the
        zoning application within a radius of one mile of the Critical Homeownership Overlay Zone.

B.      Concept Plan. Applicant shall submit two concept plans simultaneously to the City Council for
        consideration at the time of rezoning application: The first concept plan must illustrate what the
        lot count and lineal footage of infrastructure are in the current zoning district or the adjacent zoning
        district to the subject property (“Base Concept”) and the second concept plan must illustrate what
        the lot count and lineal footage of infrastructure are to enable initial sales of units at the Target
        Price (“Attainable Concept”).
     1.   Developer’s concept plans shall include:
          (a) Concept plans of single family detached lots showing the lot size of a typical unattainable
               development contrasted against the Concept Plan showing a reduced lot size and design
               of attainable development that meets the Target Price.
          (b) A table showing the estimated per-door costs to the Developer under each plan, including
               infrastructure costs and Developer’s expected margins.
     2.   Developer’s concept plan should avoid the creation of a homeowner’s association (HOA) that
          can impose assessments, when possible. Unless specific conditions exist requiring an HOA as
          determined by the City Council.

C.   Development Agreement. The applicant and City Staff shall prepare a Development Agreement
     memorializing the accepted Target Price, proposed lot size, subdivision design, and unit design, in
     accordance with Developer’s Concept Plan.

D.   Zone Change and Development Agreement Adoption. Following preparation of the Development
     Agreement and Concept Plan, Developer shall apply to the City for adoption of the Critical
     Residential Overlay Zone, and adoption of the Development Agreement. Approval of Critical
     Homeownership Developments are subject to the requirements of this Chapter and procedures as
     contained in this Code. Critical Homeowner Overlay Zone and accompanying Development
     Agreement approval are legislative decisions by the City Council, subject to established procedures
     for zone changes, including a public hearing at Planning Commission stage. If approved, the
     application of the overlay zone should be approved first, immediately followed by approval of the
     Development Agreement.

E.   Preliminary Plat. Following approval and adoption of the CHOZ and Development Agreement,
     review of the preliminary plat is an administrative and technical matter. The Preliminary Plat
     examines subdivision design in accordance with the concept plan and development agreement.
     Preliminary approval shall only be granted when there is a reasonable certainty that the Critical
     Homeownership Development will fulfill all requirements of this Chapter and the concept plan
     and development agreement. The preliminary application requirements for a Critical
     Homeownership Development are those identified for a preliminary subdivision plat as identified
     in Section 11.070, except with respect to conflicting matters in this code or the Concept Plan and
     Development Agreement, which control. The preliminary plat will receive approval from the
     zoning administrator following a review by the reviewing departments.

F.   Final Plat. Review of the final plat is an administrative and technical matter. The applicant shall
     submit the detailed and technical information necessary to demonstrate that all City standards,
     requirements, and conditions have been met. Approval shall only be granted if the final plat is in
     conformance with the preliminary approval and the requirements of the City for final subdivision
     plat approval as identified in Section 11.120 have been met.

Section XX.070. Amendments to the Development Plan.

Applicants may be granted revisions to approved preliminary or final Critical Homeownership
Development plans. Requests for revisions shall be submitted in writing to the City. Changes and
amendments to approved preliminary and final Planned Critical Residential Development plans shall be
processed following the same procedure as the original review and approval unless they are determined
to meet the standards for a Minor Revision as identified in Section 14.020 of this Code.
