                                           EV AUTO SITE PLAN
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant          Ryan Naylor
                          Meeting Date          August 22, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose           Approval of a proposed site plan
                         Decision Type          Administrative
                              Location          Approximately 1100 West State Street
                       Existing Zoning          C-H (Heavy Commercial)
     General Plan Land Use Designation          C-H
                     Existing Land Use          Undeveloped
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use               North C-H                    I-15
                                                   South R-1-8                  Gateway Plat A Subdivision
                                                    East MU                     Residential
                                                    West C                      Park n Ride
                      Date of DRC Review        August 7, 2024
                        Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                                REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission         Final approval
                            City Council        No action required


     APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.250. Site Plan Approval Process. (Am 5/22/01; 08/13/02; 11/09/04)
The review and approval process for a Site Plan shall be as follows:
Permitted Uses (2) Site Plans associated with a permitted use and with a total valuation, including building and all
associated improvements, greater than $500,000 dollars shall require approval by the Planning Commission,
following a review by the DRC. The Planning Commission may require that the approval of a Site Plan be
forwarded to the City Council if they determine a project is likely to have a significant impact on traffic,
environmental quality, lighting, compatibility of uses, or the health, safety, or general welfare of the surrounding
properties, property values, or residents. The Planning Commission and or City Council may hold a public hearing
on any project likely to have a significant impact on the surrounding property, values or residents.

Section 37.060. Parking Standards

8. The following minimum landscaped setback and separation shall be required for all surface parking lots, unless
otherwise approved by the Planning Commission:

a.    20 feet from public road rights-of-way; and

b.    ten feet from perimeter property lines.

Section 37.010. Nonresidential Design Standards
3. Urban Village District Design Standards:
b. Architectural standards:
iii. Setbacks:

2. The maximum setback for buildings shall be 25 feet as measured from the property line.
3. The maximum setback may be increased to accommodate existing mainline utilities, grade changes over 20
percent, existing buildings, or other hardship that is not self-imposed to the property.




EV Auto Site Plan
  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872              Property was included as part of the original boundaries of Lehi City.

March 26, 2024             The JDXIII zone change was approved to change the zoning to Heavy Commercial.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the EV Auto Site Plan located at approximately 1100 West State Street in a
Heavy Commercial zone. The proposed auto sales, rental, service, and repair uses are permitted within that zone.
The Planning Commission is reviewing this site plan because of the request for exceptions to the Code. This
property is part of the Urban Village design district which results in some additional requirements.

Site Layout
The site shows a new 5,374 square foot building surrounded by parking to the front and northwest of it. The plan
shows 46 parking stalls, including inventory.

The plan meets the overall landscaping requirements with over 25 percent of the site landscaped as well as the ten
percent of the interior parking lot landscaping area shown.

DRC Comments/Exceptions
The DRC provided two technical redline comments relating to detail sheets to be included in the plan set.

There were three general comments/exceptions listed under the redline comments that included the following:
1. A portion of this property is in the Urban Village Design Standards District, which would require the building to be
    oriented to the street, similar to what was done with Truck Country. The building orientation standards state:
    Buildings shall be oriented to the adjacent public or private street with no off-street parking or drive aisles located
    between the building and the street sidewalk. The maximum setback for buildings shall be 25 feet as measured
    from the property line.
2. A minimum landscaped setback of 20' is required from the property line to the parking lot. The Planning
    Commission may reduce this with justification from the applicant, though typically some landscape and buffering
    is required.
3. Informational comment: new sign will require separate sign permit approval

The applicant provided additional exhibits and justification for the proposed exceptions. These exhibits were included
in the packet.

For the landscape setback of 20 feet, they request an exception to this standard based on the narrow nature of the project
and the already existing landscape setback in the street right of way. On average the landscaping when measured from
the back of curb on State Street to the parking lot exceeds the required 20 feet, albeit not from property line.

For the building orientation, they request an exception to the standard based on the location of this property, the
restrictions placed on the property for access by UDOT, the irregular nature of the properties shape, and the nature of
the automotive sales business.

Please consider all of these comments in your notion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Site Plans are an administrative action, which means if they meet Code the Planning Commission must approve it.

This is not a public hearing item.




EV Auto Site Plan
  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed site plan. Any motion should include
findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or
         improvements in the vicinity and will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, general welfare or
         convenience.
    2.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and
         policies of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
    3.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate
         size and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner
         that it will not be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
    4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public meeting.




EV Auto Site Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           August 7, 2024

                                                     EV Auto Lehi Site Plan
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Ryan Naylor- requests review of the EV Auto Lehi site plan located at approximately 1100 West State Street.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Hank, Chris Poulsen, Mark Skousen, Ryan Naylor
Date of Plans Reviewed: 7/30/2024
Time Start: 1:55 pm
Time End: 2:00 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Wrong CT detail, use three-phase CT detail.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
2. Provide Water-6, water-8 Water-13 detail sheets in plan set.
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: General Comment: SWPPP and SSOMP will be required prior to precon
Gary – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Engineering: General Comment: No traffic study is needed. No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments

General Comments/Exceptions:
1. A portion of this property is in the Urban Village Design Standards District, which would require the building to be
   oriented to the street, similar to what was done with Truck Country. The building orientation standards state: Buildings
   shall be oriented to the adjacent public or private street with no off-street parking or drive aisles located between the
   building and the street sidewalk. The maximum setback for buildings shall be 25 feet as measured from the property
   line.
2. A minimum landscaped setback of 20' is required from the property line to the parking lot. The Planning Commission
   may reduce this with justification from the applicant, though typically some landscape and buffering is required.
3. Informational comment: new sign will require separate sign permit approval

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)
PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
    Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
2. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
    must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
3. Reimbursement Agreement for any reimbursable improvement items must be in place.
4. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
    process.
5. Still need plat amendment to the Huerta Subdivision
6. Include cross access easement
7. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
8. New property line adjacent to existing roads must be staked and reviewed by the City.
9. Need Irrigation Company signature on the construction drawings for the irrigation piping.
10. Provide required licenses (railroad, UDOT, UTA, aqueduct, canal, etc).
11. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
    Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com).



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           August 7, 2024

12. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
13. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
    Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
    agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
14. Provide approval letter from the State (UDEQ) for Class V UIC Injection Well.
15. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
16. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
17. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
18. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.

DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON AUGUST 22, 2024.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
