                                       TRIPLE B ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                     Applicant        Bill Elton
                                 Meeting Date         August 22, 2024
                      Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                      change
                              Decision Type           Legislative
                                   Location           Approximately 500 E 1630 S
                                    Acreage           33.17 acres
                            Existing Zoning           A-5
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           VLDRA
               Proposed Zoning Designation            R-1-22
                          Existing Land Use           Undeveloped
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North PC/PF               Quail Run Townhomes
                                                       South A-5                Utah Lake Shoreline
                                                        East PC                 Spring Creek Ranch Subdivisions
                                                        West A-5                Undeveloped
                            Date of DRC Review        July 31, 2024
                              Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                           Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                   City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL (VLDRA) The purpose of the Very Low Density Resi-
dential/Agricultural (VLDRA) classification is to provide for single-family residential areas within a rural setting, with
an overall neighborhood density not to exceed 1.75 units per acre. Much of the area designated as VLDRA is located




Triple B Zone Change
where small-scale farming, hobby farming, or other agricultural uses are present. Where new development is allowed
adjacent to existing agricultural areas, the new development must be sensitive to the existing uses. Larger lot sizes and
lower density zones that allow for animal rights will be encouraged where adjacent to such agricultural areas. In par-
ticular, provision should be made for hobby farms, ranchettes, or equestrian-related developments where the develop-
ment is to be located adjacent to similar existing uses.

The VLDRA designation is also intended to encourage creativity and flexibility of planning and design through the use
of Planned Residential Design projects and Planned Unit Developments, where clustering and open space, with a varie-
ty of lot sizes and a range of housing choices can be accomplished while still maintaining a base density of 1.75 units
per acre. Although new development in VLDRA areas is allowed, the existing agricultural uses will be encouraged to
remain. Growth should be directed in an orderly manner, growing outward from existing developed areas where public
facilities are available.


     PROPERTY HISTORY

January 20, 1999            Property Annexed in Mill Pond Annexation

May 28, 2024                The Triple B Investment General Plan Amendment was approved by the City Council.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from TH-5 to R-1-22 on 33.17 acres
located at approximately 500 E 1630 S. The zone change is consistent with the General Plan and a concept was not
submitted at this time.

There were three comments from the DRC, including:

1.    Though current city plans show Pony Express Parkway as a 105' - 115' ROW roadway, recent transportation dis-
      cussions indicate that this roadway may need to larger. Future concept / development submissions related to this
      property will need to consider the preservation of this wider transportation corridor.
2.    Water dedication will be required as a condition of recording the zone change ordinance. The amount of dedication
      is .79 acre feet per acre of culinary water and 2.90 acre feet per acre of irrigation water.

Please consider all of the DRC comments in the motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative decisions. However, zone changes that meet the General Plan must be approved unless
strong reasons are provided for the detriment that the zone change would cause to the City.

The public can comment on zone changes but should understand that this proposed zone change meets the General Plan
so significant reasons would need to be provided to deny the proposed zone change.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;




Triple B Zone Change
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Triple B Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          July 31, 2024

                                        Triple B Investment Group LLC Zone Change
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Bill Elton- requests review of the Triple B Investments Group LLC Zone Change located at ??? changing the zoning on
33.17 acres from A-5 to R-1-22.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Tony Trane
Date of Plans Reviewed: 7/16/2024
Time Start: 2:30 pm
Time End: 2:38 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S– Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey– Public Works:
1. Informational: 100 year floodplain according to the NFHL for your reference. Orange is 500 year floodplain. Blue is
    100 year floodplain zone AE.




Gary E – Engineering:
2. Though current city plans show Pony Express Parkway as a 105' - 115' ROW roadway, recent transportation
   discussions indicate that this roadway may need to larger. Future concept / development submissions related to this
   property will need to consider the preservation of this wider transportation corridor.
Kim – Planning:
3. Water dedication will be required as a condition of recording the zone change ordinance. The amount of dedication is
   .79 acre feet per acre of culinary water and 2.90 acre feet per acre of irrigation water.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON AUGUST 22, 2024 (NEED ENVELOPES
BEFORE SCHEDULING)


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
6/2/2024

Lehi City
Attn: City Council and Staff

Subject: Triple B Investment Group Zoning Plan Amendment


The property owned by Triple B Investment Group, located at 1630 South 500 East (serial
numbers 13:036:0017 and 13:072:0021) is requesting an amendment to the Lehi City Zoning
Map for a portion of the property of approximately 33.17 acres. The remaining 18.3 acers of the
overall 51.47 acres will remain in the current A-5 zoning designation.
The general plan was recently adjusted to define the 33.17 acres as a VLDRA designation which
is in line with the requested zoning amendment.
We also understand that there is a proposal to extend the Pony Express Roadway and have
reached out to the City to define the corridor for the future roadway. The proposed amendment is
to define the property north of this existing 100 yr flood zone to to the R-1-22. We feel this is an
appropriate request based on the current conditions in the area, the need to coordinate with the
City for the road right-of-way and to be in line with the existing adjacent developed areas.


In general, the topography, vegetation, and other natural features present on the property of the
proposed General Plan is flat farm land and the use of the property is farm land.


The potential residential density of the proposed area has been in discussions for many years.
The proposed zoning request would be in line with the general plan for 1.75 units per acre outside
the flood zone and 1 unit per 5 acres in the A-5 area.


The proposed amendment will comply with and achieve Lehi City’s land use(s), goals and policies
outlined in the Lehi City General Plan by following the recent amendment completed. The
property is located next to city parks and trail corridors that connect them are anticipated whit thet
the future development expanding the parks and trail system.


The overall direction from Lehi City has been to coordinate this area for a cohesive development
due to the surrounding features and amenities. We feel that this proposal is in line with the
direction of the intent for the current conditions. The additions to the park and trail system will
help to add connectivity and a community feel to the area.
