                                       DOWNS ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant         Diane Downs
                                Meeting Date          August 22, 2024
                     Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                      change
                              Decision Type           Legislative
                                   Location           211 South 500 West
                                    Acreage           0.73 acres
                            Existing Zoning           RA-1
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           LDR
               Proposed Zoning Designation            R-1-Flex
                          Existing Land Use           Single family residential
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North RA-1                Single family residential
                                                       South RA-1               Single family residential
                                                        East RA-1               Single family residential
                                                        West PF                 Meadow Elementary
                            Date of DRC Review        July 31, 2024
                              Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                  City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (LDR) The Low Density Residential (LDR) classification provides for predominantly
single family residential areas and single family dwelling units with an overall neighborhood density not to exceed 4
units per acre.




Downs Zone Change
  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872     This property is part of the original incorporated boundaries of Lehi City.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from RA-1 to R-1-Flex on 0.73 acres
located at 211 South 500 West. The zone change is consistent with the General Plan. A concept was not submitted at
this time, but the zone change facilitates the possibility of a two-lot subdivision.

There was one comments from the DRC relating to water dedication:
1. Water dedication will be required as a condition of recording the zone change ordinance. The amount of dedication
    is .45 acre feet of culinary water.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative decisions. However, zone changes that meet the General Plan must be approved unless
strong reasons are provided for the detriment that the zone change would cause to the City.

The public can comment on zone changes but should understand that this proposed zone change meets the General Plan
so significant reasons would need to be provided to deny the proposed zone change.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Downs Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          July 31, 2024

                                                      Downs Zone Change
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Diane Downs- requests review of the Downs Zone Change located at 211 S 500 W changing the zoning on 0.73 acres from
RA-1 to R-1-Flex.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Tony Trane
Date of Plans Reviewed: 7/16/2024
Time Start: 2:38 pm
Time End: 2:39 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey– Public Works: No Comments
Brad – Engineering: No Comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Water dedication will be required as a condition of recording the zone change ordinance. The amount of dedication is
    .45 acre feet of culinary water.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON AUGUST 22, 2024
(NEED ENVELOPES BEFORE SCHEDULING)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
