              RIVER POINT PHASE 3A PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant       Edge Homes
                           Meeting Date        August 22, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose       Public hearing, review, and recommendation for a proposed preliminary
                                               subdivision
                           Decision Type       Administrative
                                Location       Approximately 1500 North 3600 West
       Existing General Plan Designation       Low-density residential (LDR), Open Space (OS), and Environmen-
                                               tally Sensitive Area (ESA)
                        Existing Zoning        R-1-8 and R-1-15
                     Existing Land Use         Agrarian (mink farm)
                   Number of Lots/Units        174
          Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North PF and TH-5           Fire Station 84 and future single-fam-
                                                                              ily home subdivision
                                                   South TH-5 and R-1-8 Agriculture
                                                    East TH-5                 Protected environmentally sensitive
                                                                              land
                                                    West R-2                  Gardner Point townhomes and condos
                      Date of DRC Review       August 8, 2024
                        Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission       Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                             City Council      Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code, in-
cluding review by the Reviewing Departments, and review and approval by the Planning Commission following a
public hearing.

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has
been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.

Section 17.040. Development Standards.

All Planned Unit Developments shall conform to the following standards and requirements:

A.     Qualifying Districts. Planned Unit Developments may be allowed at the discretion of the Planning Commission
and City Council in all agricultural and residential districts within the City. To ensure that PUD projects are able to
achieve the purposes stated in Section 17.010, and to ensure that projects are large enough to support a private homeown-
ers association, property management agency, or corporation responsible for maintenance of open space, all Planned Unit
Developments shall have a minimum area requirement of ten acres. Exceptions may be allowed for infill projects at the
discretion of the Planning Commission and City Council. However, it is still the burden and responsibility of the applicant




River Point Phase 3a Preliminary Subdivision
to demonstrate that the purposes of this chapter can be met, and that the adequate guarantees can be made for the mainte-
nance of all required open space and common areas. For the purposes of this section, an infill project is defined as the
development, or redevelopment within an existing developed area where street networks, utilities and other infrastructure
are already present as opposed to starting with raw land in a relatively undeveloped or pristine area.

A.     Ownership. The area proposed for the Planned Unit Development shall be in one ownership, or if in several own-
erships, the application for the permit shall be filed jointly by all of the owners of the property included in the plan.

B.    Designer/Engineer. The plan for the Planned Unit Development shall be prepared by a designer, architect or civil
engineer licensed to practice in the state of Utah.

 C.    Density. The overall project may not exceed the density allowed by the underlying zoning district plus any addi-
tional density bonus allowed at the discretion of the Planning Commission and City Council.

D.      Calculation of Density. The number of dwelling units allowed in a Planned Unit Development is to be calculated
in the following manner.

     1.   The following areas shall be subtracted from the gross site area to determine net usable area:
          (a) areas of steep slopes, wetlands, or areas below the high water level of Utah Lake as defined in Section
          12.060-K of this Code;
          (b) the area of any perennial channels, measured from top of bank to top of bank of the flow channel;
          (c) existing public streets, or any areas of additional right of way required to comply with the Lehi City Master
          Transportation Plan; and
          (d) areas to be set aside for public buildings or institutional uses such as churches and schools.

     2. Net usable site area is multiplied by the density allowed by the underlying zoning district as established in Table
     05-040-A to identify the maximum number of allowed units.

     3. Density for areas in the 100-year flood plain as shown on the FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Maps shall be calcu-
     lated at a rate of one unit per five acres regardless of the density allowed by the underlying zone.

     4. If the Planned Unit Development is located in more than one zoning district, the total allowed number of units
     shall be calculated by adding the number of units allowed by each zoning district. However, the dwelling units may
     be placed without regard to district boundaries, provided the total units do not exceed that allowed by the underlying
     zoning districts.

 F.    Density Bonus Amenities: The list below represents items for which a density bonus may be granted subject to
Planning Commission and City Council approval. Other items not included in this list may warrant a density bonus on a
case by case basis.

1. Active Recreation: master planned trails, swimming pools, sports courts, tennis courts, pickleball courts, splash pads,
clubhouse, trails, pedestrian bridges, and other similar amenities beyond those required.

2. Pedestrian and Bicycle Enhancements: raised planters, bulb-outs or curb extensions, pedestrian plazas, additional
bike lanes or facilities not already required.

3.   Additional Open Space: beyond the required 10 percent.

4. Improvements to Master Planned Infrastructure: master planned roads, utilities, trails, property for civic buildings,
or other similar items.

G.     Lot Sizes. The dwellings may be situated in one building or buildings may be clustered. Individual lot sizes may
be reduced below the requirements of the zone in which the development is located. The remaining land not within
individual lots shall be set aside for parks, playgrounds, open space or other open areas. Setbacks may be reduced but
shall be sufficient to allow for the installation of all required public utilities. No permanent structure shall be allowed in




River Point Phase 3a Preliminary Subdivision
the public utility easement space. Public utility easements shall be free and clear of building footings, foundation walls,
window wells, or any other permanent structure that does not meet utility clearance requirements. All buildings and struc-
tures shall maintain a minimum five-foot setback from any public utility easement, water line easement, sewer easement,
storm drain easement, power easement, detention easement, or any other utility easement in order to ensure property
utility clearances are maintained.

H.       Required Open Space. For all Planned Unit Developments, not less than ten percent of the gross area of the
project site shall be set aside for the use of the occupants for parks, playgrounds, open space or other open areas. All
areas required for vehicular access, parking areas, and land which is otherwise required to comply with the minimum yard
requirements around buildings, shall not be included in computing the area required for parks, playgrounds or other open
space areas.

 I.      Open Space Design.

1. The required open space shall be landscaped with sod and irrigation sprinklers and a minimum 25% of the proposed
open space shall be water-wise landscaped as defined in Chapter 39 of this Code.

2. Trees shall be provided within the open space at a rate of ten trees per acre of provided open space. Deciduous trees
shall be a minimum 2” caliper and coniferous trees shall be a minimum six feet in height.

3. Detention and retention basins shall not be counted toward meeting the minimum open space requirement. Open
space design and location issues shall be kept separate and independent of drainage issues.

 J.      Location of Open Space. The location of open space conserved through a Planned Unit Development shall be
consistent with the policies contained in the General Plan Parks, Open Space and Recreational Facilities Element. Re-
quired open space areas shall be well planned, walkable, and connected, not a collection of remnants. Where possible,
units shall front onto the open space(s). Yard areas within lots shall not be counted toward meeting the minimum open
space requirement.

K.       Open Space Adjacent to Major Roads. Where a Planned Unit Development is required for projects adjacent to
a master planned arterial or limited access collector road, the area between the property line/ROW line and the required
decorative fence shall be enlarged and landscaped as part of the required open space. The enlarged parkway area shall be
counted towards meeting the minimum open space requirement and shall include decorative fencing, street tree plantings
and other applicable improvements required in the Lehi City Design Standards and Public Improvement Specifications
Manual. The landscaped area may also include shrubs, rocks, flowerbeds and ground cover. Maintenance of the land-
scaped parkway shall be insured by the developer and owner by means of a property management agency or by establish-
ing a private association or corporation responsible for such maintenance, which shall levy the cost thereof as an assess-
ment on the property owners within the Planned Unit Development.

L.       Utilities. All buildings shall be served by public sewer and water systems and shall conform to the requirements
of the Lehi City Design Standards and Public Improvement Specifications.

M.       Compatibility. Wherever the Planned Unit Development site shares a common property line with a lower density
residential or agricultural district, then for that portion of the Planned Unit Development site the setback requirements of
the adjacent or contiguous zoning district shall apply. For example, if the rear yards of units in a PUD share a common
property line with a lower density residential district, then the rear yard of the PUD units shall be the same as the required
rear yards of the adjacent lower density district.

N.       Landscaping. All areas not covered by buildings, or by off-street car parking areas or driveways, shall be planted
in lawn, trees and shrubs, or otherwise landscaped and maintained in accordance with an approved landscape plan. All
required front yard and side yard areas which are adjacent to a public street shall not be used for automobile parking areas,
except for permitted driveways, but shall be landscaped and maintained with lawns, trees and shrubs, or other landscape
materials.

O.       Design Standards and Conditions. Design standards and conditions of development approval in addition to those




River Point Phase 3a Preliminary Subdivision
required by the underlying zoning district may be required as conditions of approval, by the Reviewing Departments,
Planning Commission and City Council when deemed necessary to ensure that a Planned Unit Development will be
compatible with adjoining or nearby uses.

 P.       Parking. Developments shall provide adequate parking based on the requirements of Table 37.070. In addition
to those requirements, developments with single-family detached units on lots with less than 50’ of frontage shall provide
guest parking at a rate of one space for every six dwelling units.

Section 36-B.050. Permitted Uses.
The following uses are permitted within the Jordan River Overlay Zone:
    A. open space;

    B. parks and associated improvements;

    C. agricultural uses;

    D. golf courses;

    E. trails, both paved and unpaved;

    F. accessory buildings incidental to a principal use with less than 750 gross square feet, unless otherwise approved
         by Planning Commission and City Council;

    G. outdoor amphitheaters;

    H. public facilities, including utilities, detention and drainage facilities, and wells; and

    I. other similar uses deemed appropriate within the river buffer as approved by the Zoning Administrator.

Section 36-B.060. River Buffer.

A.     The Jordan River Overlay Zone implements a river buffer as identified on the Lehi City General Plan Land Use
Map. The final boundary of the river buffer will be determined on a case-by-case basis at the time of development based
on existing site features.

B.     Single family homes shall not be located within the river buffer and no permanent buildings shall be placed within
50 feet of the top of the riverbank, with the exception of any flood control or river-related facilities.

Section 36-B.070. Concept Plan.

A.     A Concept Plan is required for all development within the Jordan River Protection Overlay Zone before a prelim-
inary subdivision or site plan may be submitted. The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission, and
City Council an opportunity to discuss the project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meet-
ings to receive direction on project layout as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and require-
ments that may be required for layout of streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to
the preparation of a more detailed preliminary subdivision plat. Sections 11.010 through 11.030 of the Development
Code identify the requirements for a Concept Plan.

B.     In addition to the concept requirements set forth in Chapter 11 of the Development Code, the required Concept
Plan shall include:

    1.   topographic contours at two feet or closer intervals may be required to determine river buffer;




River Point Phase 3a Preliminary Subdivision
    2.   limits of all floodplains;

    3.   water supply source protection areas;

    4.   proposed trail and open space locations; and

    5.   significant trees and vibrant areas of native vegetation.

Section 36-B.080. Site Features Map.

A.     Concurrent with the submission of a Concept Plan application, the applicant shall prepare and submit a site features
map. The applicant is only required to map site features located within the Jordan River Overlay Zone and areas located
within 50 feet of the Overlay Zone to help finalize the river buffer location.

B.     The purpose of the site features map is to identify and locate site features to facilitate creation of a site development
design that mitigates impacts to the natural and cultural resources of the development area, and reduce risks associated
with flooding, high ground water, and unstable soils. The site features map shall identify and locate:

    1.   the Jordan River, streams, tributaries, ponds, wetlands, and other hydrologic features;

    2.   riparian areas;

    3.   known habitat of endangered, threatened, or State sensitive species;

    4.   existing public and recreational access and uses; and

    5.   cultural and historical resources.



  PROPERTY HISTORY

September 26, 2008          This property was included in the Holbrook Annexation.

January 28, 2020            This property was included in the Saratoga Springs Boundary Line Adjustment zone
                            change, approving R-2 (Medium Density) and R-3 (High Density) on this property.

November 16, 2021           The City Council approved the River Point Concept Plan, which a portion includes this
                            property.

April 12, 2022              The City Council approved the River Point Phase 1 Preliminary Subdivision.

August 23, 2022             The City Council approved the River Point Phase 2 Preliminary Subdivision.



  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval of the River Point Phase 3a Preliminary Subdivision. The proposed development
is requesting to be built as a Planned Unit Development (PUD). It would be at the discretion of the Planning Com-
mission and City Council to determine if a PUD would be appropriate at this location. The first phase of the River
Point development was approved on April 12, 2022 as a PUD. This report will describe the PUD requirements, the




River Point Phase 3a Preliminary Subdivision
layout of the development, the Jordan River Overlay Zone, and the DRC comments.


PUD Requirements
Planned Unit Development, or PUD, is a residential overlay that allows applicants to cluster development to provide
varied lot sizes and open space. A PUD is allowed at the discretion of the Planning Commission and the City Council
in all residential districts. The Planning Commission and City Council will need to determine if this site meets the
requirements of the PUD.

The density for PUDs is determined based on the underlying zoning district. This plan shows the allowed amount of
density, 174 units, based on the underlying zoning district of R-1-8 and R-1-15. The original concept plan approved
by the City Council for the River Point PUD allocated 499 units for this development. The River Point Phase 1
preliminary used 75, and the River Point Phase 2 preliminary subdivision used 257. The remaining number of units
that would be allowed was 167. However, Edge Homes transferred 7 units from Gardner Point Phase 6 to River Point
Phase 3a Preliminary due to construction complications with Gardner Point Phase 6 that caused them to lose 7 homes
in that phase. Edge Homes is legally entitled to those units and, while working with staff, opted to transfer them to
the River Point Phase 3a preliminary.

One of the DRC comments was that the applicant needed to provide the open space calculation to determine if this
meets the required open space requirement. 10% of the land area must be designated as open space, but this would
cover the entire River Point subdivision, including preliminary phases 1 and 2. The applicant provided the open space
calculation for the entire River Point subdivision after the last DRC meeting and it is 13.5%.


Layout Requirements
The proposed development is for 174 units and would be a mixture of single-family lots and rear-load townhomes.
The townhomes are shown to be fronting open space and public roads. The remainder of the property will consist of
single-family homes of ranging sizes to provide variety throughout the subdivision. This phase will also provide the
construction of trail segments for the Power Line Trail, and a trail along the Jordan River will also be constructed.
Roads will be stubbed to Kraig Johnson’s property to the north for a future single-family subdivision, and to the
south to eventually connect to Cold Springs Ranch once the two parcels in between develop.


Jordan River Overlay
The eastern edge of the subdivision lies within the Jordan River Overlay Zone. There are specific standards that must
be met within the Jordan River Overlay. For example, no permanent structures are allowed within 50 feet of the
overlay zone, and the only uses allowed within the overlay itself include low impact recreation and agrarian uses
including trails, parks, and agriculture. An additional requirement of the Jordan River Overlay Zone is that a site
features map be provided that shows the location of riparian areas, known habitat of endangered, threatened, or state
sensitive species, and cultural and historic resources. The applicant has provided this and has shown that no prohib-
ited uses will be permitted within the Overlay Zone and no structure will be placed within 50 feet of the buffer.


DRC Comments
There were 21 comments from the DRC. Many of them were minor changes on the plans, but some of note include:
1. Parks - What amenities will be included within this development? Amenities will need to be called out and
specified. Set up a time with the City to discuss.
2. Planning - Include note on the plat that 7 additional lots were transferred from Gardner Point Phase 6 to River
Point Phase 3 Preliminary Subdivision.
3. Planning – Include a legend for any known habitat of endangered, threatened, or state sensitive species.


Please consider including all DRC comments as a part of the motion.




River Point Phase 3a Preliminary Subdivision
  SCOPE OF APPROVAL
Subdivision review is an administrative action. Preliminary subdivisions are approved at the City Council level. Under-
standing this, the Planning Commission will issue a recommendation to the City Council based on their findings. Dur-
ing their review, the Planning Commission should determine if the proposed preliminary subdivision meets the require-
ments of the Lehi City Development Code. As a request for a Planned Unit Development, the Planning Commission
should also determine if the proposed plan and location warrants the approval of a Planned Unit Development as op-
posed to a standards subdivision. The Planning Commission can include in their motion any changes that need to be
made to meet Code requirements.



  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed preliminary subdivision.
Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
         gards to subdivision approvals.
    2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




River Point Phase 3a Preliminary Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           August 7, 2024

                                                River Point Phase 3a Preliminary
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Edge Homes requests preliminary subdivision review of River Point Phase 3a, a 174-lot residential subdivision located on
48 acres at approximately 1500 North 3600 West.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Katie
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Brady Morris, Michael Budge
Date of Plans Reviewed: 7/30/2024
Time Start: 3:10 PM
Time End: 3:35 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Provide updated background to Active Power to revise the power plan to accommodate the current layout.
2. Resolve easement discontinuities.
Garion – Fire:
3. Show temp turnaround on the plat.
4. How permanent is this temporary turnaround?
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
5. Add MH to get the inlet boxes to work.
6. Water lines will end with hydrant and permanent blow off.
7. reduce number of bends on both water mains.
8. move both water mains to remain in road way.
9. .33% is minimum grade per lehi city standards.
10. .33% minimum grade on 8" sewer main
11. .33% minimum grade
12. .10 slope threw manholes. should be .20
James – Parks:
13. Include landscaping and irrigation plan for final submission.
14. sawcut, repair, and replace asphalt trail where sewer line crosses. Access road to match existing grade of trail where it
abuts on either side.
15. Add note on the plat to clarify the dedication/ownership of common areas, Parcel A, and any other remnant parcels.
16. What amenities will be included within this development? Amenities will need to be called out and specified. Set up
separate meeting with the City to discuss.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary/Brad – Engineering:
17. All curves should have a radius to make a min TBC curve radius of 24' per Lehi City Design Standards
Luke – Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
18. Include open space calculations on the preliminary plat. 10% open space required for all of River Point. Include how
    much open space for the overall subdivision, and how much is in this preliminary plat specifically. Also indicate on the
    preliminary plat the status of the remaining private acreage to the east.
19. Include note on the plat that 7 additional lots were transferred from Gardner Point Phase 6 to River Point Phase 3
    preliminary.
20. Need to change the name of the preliminary plat to Phase 3a to avoid confusion with River Point Phase 3 Final
    Subdivision.
21. Include a legend item for any known habitat of endangered, threatened, or state sensitive species, including fish.

DRC General Comments
22. Public works - Update the existing SWPPP to include this phase prior to precon


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           August 7, 2024

23. Public works - Update the existing LTSWMP to include any privately owned storm drain prior to precon. I see a single
inlet on Starling Lane. All other storm drain is in the public ROW and does not need to be included.
24. Engineering - At the time of final construction confirm that curb and gutter designs conform with ADA ramp grading
criteria shown within the Standard Details.



PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)
PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEUDLED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION AUGUST 22ND.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
