                 SKYLINE PRELIMINARY AND FINAL SUBDIVISION
                                 REVISIONS
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant       Aaron Larson
                           Meeting Date        August 22, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose       Public hearing, review, and recommendation for a proposed preliminary
                                               subdivision
                           Decision Type       Administrative
                                Location       Approximately 1700 North Boston Street
       Existing General Plan Designation       Light Industrial
                         Existing Zoning       Light Industrial
                      Existing Land Use        Vacant
                   Number of Lots/Units        6
          Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North TH-5                   Vacant
                                                  South Light Industrial       Samara Landscaping Company
                                                   East Light Industrial       Caliber Collision
                                                   West Residential            Single-family residential (Saratoga
                                                                               Springs)
                      Date of DRC Review       July 31, 2024
                        Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission       Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                             City Council      Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code, in-
cluding review by the Reviewing Departments, and review and approval by the Planning Commission following a
public hearing.

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has
been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.

Section 11.150. Revisions
If any revision is included on the final plat that was not present on the Preliminary Plat or came as a requirement of
approval by the Planning Commission, it is the applicant’s responsibility to inform the Reviewing Departments of
the change. Failure to inform the Reviewing Departments of the revisions may result in revocation of any or all
approvals.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

November 3, 1992           Property recorded as part of the Country Mile Plat A Subdivision.




Skyline Preliminary and Final Subdivision Revisions
January 2, 2020             Property annexed into Lehi City from Saratoga Springs.

January 25, 2022            Lehi City General Plan adopted by Lehi City Council.

January 9, 2024             Zone change from TH-5 to Light Industrial was approved by the Lehi City Council.

March 14, 2024              Skyline Preliminary Subdivision was approved by the Lehi Planning Commission.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval of the Skyline Commercial Subdivision revisions to both the Preliminary and
Final subdivision plats located at approximately 1700 North Boston Street. Specifically, the applicant is requesting
to increase the number of lots from 5 to 6. This is accomplished by splitting what is currently lot 5 in half. The lot
split is being requested to assist with the development of a future tow yard.

The divided lots will be just over 20,000 square feet each. This meets the minimum 20,000 square foot lot size
requirement of the Light Industrial zone. Each lot also has over 60 feet of frontage, which is the minimum frontage
requirement of the Light Industrial zone. No additional land is being added to this subdivision to create the extra lot.

DRC Comments
There were four comments from the DRC, all of which were small notes regarding the final plat, including:
1. Add middle name – must match how it appears on title.
2. Change address to 1633 North
3. Change address to 1639 North
4. Address any remaining comments from the County.

All DRC comments have already been addressed by the applicant.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Revisions to a preliminary and final plat is an administrative decision. If the revisions meet the code then the Planning
Commission must approve it. This is also a public hearing item.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed revisions. Any motion should include find-
ings. Possible findings include:


    1.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
         gards to subdivision approvals.
    2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Skyline Preliminary and Final Subdivision Revisions
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 31, 2024

                                                  Skyline Subdivision Revisions
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Aaron Larson- requests review of Skyline Subdivision Revisions, increasing the number of lots from 5 lots to 6, located at
approximately 1500 North Boston Street.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Anna, Bob
Date of Plans Reviewed: 07/23/2024
Time Start: 3:30 PM
Time End:

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Brad – Engineering: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
1.      Add middle name - must match how it appears on title
2.      Change address to 1633 N
3.      Change address to 1639 N
4.      Address any remaining comments from the County.

PRIOR TO RECORDING:
1. Send bond paperwork and signed Required Improvements Agreement (RIA) to Stefanie Daggs (sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov)
2. Provide a mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
3. Plans need to be signed off by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
   scheduled.
4. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.

DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 31, 2024

    provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
    loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
    construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON AUGUST 22ND.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
Lot #5, Boston Street, Lehi, UT
Attention: Lehi City
July 31, 2024




     Narrative to Revise Subdivision
                          Skyline Properties Subdivision


The proposed change to split Parcel 5 into two separate parcels, Parcel 5 (0.46 acres) and Parcel
6 (0.46 acres), is necessary to accommodate the distinct operational needs of Jewel's Towing and
Emerald Towing. It is also a financial decision because this will allow Emerald’s Towing to be
built in Phase 2. This division allows each company to independently manage and optimize their
tow yard facilities, ensuring efficient and secure storage for impounded vehicles. By having
dedicated spaces, both businesses can better serve the community, enhance their operational
capabilities, and provide clear separation between police-designated storage areas and public
access zones. Doing the split now before the final plat is recorded will save time, energy and
money.

Anna Dolegiewicz

Owner, Jewels Towing




                                                                                                1
