                       TRONSON GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant        Brad Tronson
                                Meeting Date         September 12, 2024
                     Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation for an amendment to the General
                                                     Plan
                              Decision Type          Legislative
                                   Location          Approximately 635 W State Street
                                    Acreage          0.66 acres
                            Existing Zoning          Commercial
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          Commercial
             Proposed Land Use Designation           Heavy Commercial
                          Existing Land Use          Undeveloped- Contractor’s Yard
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North MU               State Street
                                                      South RA-1            Single family residential
                                                       East MU              State Street
                                                       West R-1-8           Single family residential
                           Date of DRC Review        August 28, 2024
                             Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                                  City Council       Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval
The Planning Commission should consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a General Plan
amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoin-
         ing properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


 APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

HEAVY COMMERCIAL (C-H)
The Heavy Commercial (C-H) classification is intended to provide appropriate locations for warehousing, auto and




Tronson General Plan Amendment
truck services, and light manufacturing that do not impact existing and planned residential areas. Typical uses in-
clude office/warehouse, light manufacturing, auto and truck service and repair, distribution centers, and some re-
tail/ office.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1852 - The subject property was included in the original Lehi City incorporation.
April 1, 2019 - The Edwin Thomas zone change was approved to switch from MU & RA-1 to Commercial zoning.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation to amend the General Plan land use designation on 0.66 acres of
property located at approximately 635 W State Street, changing the designation from Commercial to Heavy Commer-
cial.

The issue first arose due to Code Enforcement reaching out to the applicant after a complaint was made that the proper-
ty was functioning as a contractor’s storage yard. Staff let the applicant know that the storage yard or the of-
fice/warehouse use they were interested in pursuing would both fall under the Heavy Commercial designation.

The applicant feels that the proposed General Plan amendment would be consistent with the uses and zoning of proper-
ties that are just north on State Street as well as directly across State Street.

The Development Review Committee had one redline comment on the amendment:
1. Planning staff does not recommend a Heavy Commercial designation on the property as it is adjacent to residential
    and would be an island of Heavy Commercial.

Please take DRC comments into consideration.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a legislative item the Planning Commission has a high level of discretion in whether they approve General Plan
Amendments or not. The Commission should consider the impacts on the neighborhood and area if this develops as
Commercial, as well as the impacts to existing and future residents if it develops as residential.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendment to the General
Plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed amendment to the Lehi City General Plan is/is not detrimental to the public health, safety,
         and welfare of Lehi City.
    2.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provisions
         of the General Plan and its various elements.
    3.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not consistent with the land uses and zoning of nearby and
         adjoining properties.
    4.   The proposed General Plan amendment will/will not have a substantial adverse effect on surrounding
         property.
    5.   The affected site is/is not physically suitable in terms of design, location, shape, size, operating character-
         istics, and the provision of public services to accommodate any potential future uses, including all land-




Tronson General Plan Amendment
        scaping, loading areas, open spaces, parking areas, setbacks, buffering/screening, walls, fences, yards, and
        other required features.
   6.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Tronson General Plan Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         August 28, 2024

                                               Tronson General Plan Amendment
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Brad Tronson- requests review of the Tronson General Plan Amendment on 0.66 acres located at approximately 635 W
State Street, changing the designation from Commercial to Heavy Commercial.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, Trent Dyer
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Brad Tronson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 8/21/24
Time Start: 2:40 pm
Time End: 2:50 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
Trent – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Planning staff does not recommend a Heavy Commercial designation on the property as it is adjacent to residential and
    would be an island of Heavy Commercial.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON SEPTEMBER 12, 2024




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                               Application for General Plan Amendment
                                        635 W State Street, Lehi

Application Submittal Requirements

1. We are requesting a zoning change for the property located at 635 W State St from commercial and
or mixed use to heavy commercial use.

(a). Reason and Justification. To construct a multi tenant office warehouse with higher than the 50/50
percentage of office to warehouse square footage allowed in the current commercial zone and to give
future tenants more beneficial options to their businesses and allow them to flourish in the area. The
current zoning and allowable commercial uses in this area would make it financially difficult to remain in
business based on the location and the surrounding properties and their current uses. This property is
not a “destination property” which many of the current uses as defined in the zoning regulations
presently allow.

(b). Consistency with Goals and Policies. This amendment change would be in line with the goals and
policies of the general plan by promoting quality sustainable commercial business opportunities in the
area that would be consistent with how the surrounding business entities operate.

(c). Compatibility. This new change would be consistent with the uses and zoning of the properties that
are just north on State St as well as directly across State St. Visually it would be an improvement and
would fit in with newer current buildings and designs.

(d). Effect of Proposal on Surrounding Area. Minimal impact would be felt in the surrounding area since
few things would change even with the addition of a new structure on the property. Traffic would be
impacted only slightly since the property is located on State St between two freeway entrances/exits
and is a self contained property. No need to drive through residential areas or adjacent businesses to
gain access. Completion of the project would only add to the visual aesthetics of the business
community on the north end of State St.

(e). Community Benefit. Offering more sustainable business opportunities than are allowed in the
current zoning category. It will improve property values as well as additional amenities for the
economical growth in the community.
