                        ADAMSON FLAG LOT CONDTIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Lee Adamson
                         Meeting Date         September 12, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed flag lot conditional use
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        1251 East 900 North
                          Project Area        1.44 acres
                       Existing Zoning        RA-1
              General Plan Designation        Low Density Residential
                    Existing Land Use         Single Family Home
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North RA-1                      Single Family Homes
                                                 South R-1-8                     Single Family Homes
                                                  East RA-1                      Single Family Homes
                                                  West RA-1                      Single Family Homes
                     Date of DRC Review       August 28, 2024
                       Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval
                           City Council       No action required


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.


                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest.

Section 12.210. Flag Lot Standards.

A.     Definition. A flag lot is defined as a lot in a residential zoning district that does not meet the required frontage
on a public street. A flag lot has two distinct parts: the flag, which contains the buildable area and is located behind
another lot; and the pole, which connects the flag to the street, provides the only street frontage for the lot, and contains
less than the minimum lot frontage for the zone.

B.     Purpose. Flag lots are intended to apply only to exceptionally deep or odd shaped parcels that are isolated from
public streets and would be difficult to develop or utilize in any other way. The applicant shall demonstrate that a
flag lot is the most appropriate development option and that it will not detract from the surrounding neighborhood.

C.        Minimum Requirements. A flag lot shall meet the following minimum requirements:

     1. The pole portion of the lot shall have at least 20 feet of frontage on a dedicated public street, which frontage
     serves as access only to the subject lot.

     2. The flag lot shall have a hard surfaced driveway from the public street to the required parking area for the
     flag lot with a minimum 20-foot wide drivable surface from lip of gutter to lip of gutter, per the cross section in
     this subsection (See Figure 5). Adequate provisions as determined by the City Engineer shall be made for drain-
     age of the driveway such as curb and gutter, berming, swales, or underground piping. Curb and gutter shall be
     constructed in conformance with the Road-5 standard drawing in the Lehi City Design Standards and Public
     Improvements Specifications manual.

     3.     Not more than one flag lot shall be created from an existing lot or parcel.

     4. The remainder of the lot or parcel from which the flag lot is being divided shall maintain all of the required
     zoning standards, including frontage.

     5. A flag lot cannot be created as part of a subdivision where there are more than two lots in the subdivision or
     from an illegally divided lot.

     6.     Only one single family dwelling shall be allowed on a flag lot.

     7. The width of the pole of the flag lot shall be not less than 20 feet of drivable surface unless otherwise recom-
     mended by the City Engineer and Fire Marshal and approved by the Planning Commission.
     8. The pole portion shall maintain the required width for its entire length and a vertical clearance of thirteen and
     one half feet high.

     9. The single family dwelling unit shall be located within 250 feet of a fire hydrant measured along the curb
     line, in accordance with the City’s latest Design Standards and Public Improvement Specifications.

     10. The flag portion of the lot shall meet the minimum square footage and width requirements of the applicable
     zone.

     11. Front, rear, and side yard setback requirements of the flag portion of the lot shall be the same as required in
     the applicable zone.

     12. The shape of a flag lot shall be approved by the Planning Commission as part of the subdivision ap-
     proval. Doglegs and jagged, irregular shapes may not be acceptable.

     13. The pole portion of the lot shall be part of the lot, not an access easement, and shall be designated as a public
     utility easement.

     14. “No parking” signs may be required on the pole portion of the lot as deemed necessary by the Planning
     Commission.

                                                                                                                           2
    15. The street address for the flag lot shall be clearly identified so that it is visible from the public street with
    either an address label on the mailbox or a separate address marker.

    16. All applicable street improvements including curb, gutter, and sidewalk shall be installed along the frontage
    of both the flag lot and the lot or parcel from which it is being subdivided.

    17. No accessory building shall be allowed on the flagpole portion of the lot. This subsection shall not be inter-
    preted to prohibit aesthetic entry features, such as archways, decorative mailboxes, raised landscape beds, or
    similar structures.

    18. The Planning Commission may impose additional conditions on flag lots including:
        (a) location and height of the dwelling;
        (b) compatibility of the proposed project with existing conditions; and
        (c) screening and landscaping.

    19. When the flag lot area is less than 10,000 square feet, five feet of landscaping including evergreens or other
    tall shrubs that provide a visual barrier and a six-foot sight-obscuring fence shall be required along the perimeter
    of the flag lot to screen the flag lot from neighboring properties.

D.      Approval Process. The Planning Commission shall have authority to approve a flag lot as a conditional use in
accordance with the requirements of this Section and Chapter 9, Conditional Uses, of this Code. Requests for a flag
lot are also subject to the subdivision requirements and approval process as per Chapter 11, Development Application
Requirements, of this Code.

  PROPERTY HISTORY
November 17, 1967          Property came into Lehi as part of the Bateman Addition

  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of a flag lot located at 1251 East 900 North. The proposed lots meet the RA-1 zone
and flag lot requirements. The existing lot has over 100 feet of frontage and is over 15,000 square feet in size. The
proposed flag lot has a 25-foot-wide stem and the flag lot is over an acre in size.

As a conditional use, the Planning Commission may consider reasonable conditions like the orientation of the house,
fencing, landscaping or other such requirements. Any of these conditions should be based on potential negative im-
pacts the flag lot could have on surrounding property owners.

DRC reviewed the proposed flag lot and had one redline comment to indicate on the plans the existing buildings and
if they are to remain or not.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Flag lots are conditional uses which means they are allowed by Code. The Planning Commission may place reasonable
conditions on the use to help mitigate against negative impacts. The public may speak on this item and comments
relating to negative impacts and potential conditions are the most helpful to the Commission.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve or approve with conditions the proposed flag lot. Any motion should
include findings. Possible findings include:



                                                                                                                       3
1.   The proposed flag lot meets the requirements of the RA-1 zone and flag lot requirements.
2.   The proposed flag lot does not/ needs conditions to mitigate against potential negative impacts.
3.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
     of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                4
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           August 28, 2024

                                               Adamson Flag Lot Conditional Use
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Lee Adamson- requests review of a conditional use for the Adamson Flag Lot located at 1251 East 900 North.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Lee Adamson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 8/14/24
Time Start: 1:28 pm
Time End: 1:30 pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Show the existing home if it is to remain on lot 1 and any other buildings. They should be drawn in and have a note "to
    be removed" or "to remain"


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON SEPTEMBER 12, 2024




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                             Conditional Use Permit Application
                                Adamson Subdivision Lehi

We are seeking to create a two-lot subdivision with an existing home on this property at 1251
East 900 North. My parents have lived at this nearly 1.4 acre property since 1969, but after my
dad’s passing two years ago, the size of this property has become a challenge for my mom to
maintain.

Our plan is to subdivide the property into one lot with the existing house, and a second flag lot,
as specified on the attached drawings. My mom will continue to live in her house, and I will build
a house on the flag lot. We plan to build a home where a small barn currently sits on the middle
west portion of the property. Both the home and the lane will be beautifully landscaped and will
improve the appearance in the area from any angle.

The home and property improvements will all be in compliance with the goals and policies of the
Lehi City General Plan and codes. We have worked with the city planning staff on several
occasions to review the potential options for this property and the proposed flag lot makes the
most sense. There is an existing compacted gravel lane that already meets the 20 foot wide
road requirement, however, we will upgrade the road to include the required pavement and curb
requirements.

We look forward to working with Lehi City and the DRC on this project and are confident that the
project will improve the property and will not be detrimental to adjoining properties or the
surrounding area.
