                      EV AUTO PYLON SIGN CONDITIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Compass Billboards
                         Meeting Date         September 12, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        1060 West State Street
                       Existing Zoning        C-H (Heavy Commercial)
              General Plan Designation        C-H
                    Existing Land Use         Undeveloped (Approved EV Auto Site Plan)
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North C-H                       I-15
                                                 South R-1-8                     Single family residential
                                                  East MU                        I-15/Huerta Subdivision
                                                  West C                         Park n Ride Lot
                     Date of DRC Review       August 21, 2024
                       Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval
                           City Council       No action required


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.




                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest

Section 23.090. Regulations for Permanent Signs.
    I. Pylon Signs. On-premises pylon signs shall be allowed subject to the following:
             a. Pylon signs shall be allowed on any commercial lot or multi-tenant commercial project having at
                 least 300 feet of collector or arterial street frontage measured at the front property line.
             b. Pylon sign height shall not exceed 25 feet, except the height may be increased as per subsection
                 23.090.G.4.b. for commercial uses located both within 300 feet of the I-15 right-of-way and 1,000
                 feet of an I-15 interchange.
             c. The maximum size of a pylon sign shall not exceed 15% of the total square footage for the build-
                 ing wall adjacent to the site's street frontage, or 200 square feet, whichever is less, except for
                 multi-tenant commercial projects the Planning Commission may allow additional sign area on a
                 case-by-case basis, based on the number of tenants displayed on the sign. In no case shall the total
                 size of the pylon sign exceed 600 square feet.
             d. Pylon signs shall not extend over any pedestrian or vehicular access area.
             e. Structural supports for pylon signs shall be covered or concealed with pole covers. For signs with
                 one pole, the pole cover shall be a minimum of 48 inches wide. For a sign with two poles, the pole
                 covers shall be a minimum of 36 inches wide each. Support covers shall be architecturally and
                 aesthetically designed to match the building or associated development.
             f. Pylon signs shall be constructed so as to be an integral part of the overall design of the site and
                 architecturally compatible with the building and materials. All pylon signs shall be part of an ap-
                 proved sign theme as per Section 23.140.


  PROPERTY HISTORY
June 15, 1872              Property was included as part of the original boundaries of Lehi City.

March 26, 2024             The JDXIII zone change was approved to change the zoning to Heavy Commercial.

August 22, 2024            The EV Auto Site Plan was approved by the Planning Commission.

  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting conditional use approval for a pylon sign with an electronic display sign (EDS) located at
the future EV Auto dealership and repair shop at 1060 W State Street. The proposed sign will be located back from
State Street, closer to the building to maximize visibility from I-15. The applicant has updated their submittal to
address a DRC comment regarding the type of signs. They now show the one pylon sign and then there is a monument
sign along State Street. This conditional use review and approval is solely for the pylon sign, but the plans do show
the monument sign as well.

The pylon sign is allowed because it meets the requirements of Chapter 23 of the Development Code. The site has
over 300 feet of frontage along a collector or arterial street as required for a pylon sign.

The sign is 40 feet in height, which exceeds the maximum height by right a pylon sign can be by Code. The Code
allows for increases to be approved by the Planning Commission for commercial uses within 300 feet of the I-15 right-
of-way and 1,000 feet of an I-15 interchange. Both of those prerequisites are met. The applicant has provided photos
to justify their request.

The updates to the sign size were needed to meet the maximum size allowance requirements. They shrunk the EV
letters of the sign. Because EV Auto is not a multi-tenant business, they are limited to 200 square feet. The proposed
sign is 199.25 square feet. An additional update will be needed because the update shows the LED electronic display
as 105 square feet and the channel letters as just 94.25 square feet. The Code says that electronic display shall not
exceed 50% of the total allowed sign area.


                                                                                                                       2
There were eight redline comments from the DRC, including:

1.    Two pylon signs cannot be allowed, but you could lower the height of the 15' sign to 14' and it could fall under
      the monument sign regulations.
2.    They need to show justification for any height over 25', per 23.090,I.4.b which reads:
      Businesses that are adjacent to a freeway overpass or similar view-obscuring structure may request review by
      the Planning Commission for additional height. The Planning Commission shall approve only minimal addi-
      tions to height to provide reasonable visibility above the view-obscuring structure. In all cases, the Planning
      Commission shall determine the allowable additional height, if any, on a site specific, case-by-case basis. In the
      determination of allowable additional height, the burden of proof shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
3.    The electronic portion of the sign must meet all of the lighting and other standards for electronic message dis-
      play signs in Chapter 23 of the Development Code.
4.    The maximum size of a pylon sign shall not exceed 15% of the total square footage for the building wall adja-
      cent to the site's street frontage, or 200 square feet, whichever is less.

As noted previously, as part of the DRC comments Staff requested updates be made prior to the Planning Commis-
sion meeting to resolve some of the bigger comments. The applicant provided updates to address these issues, and
they were included in the packet.

Please consider the DRC comments in the motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional Use applications are administrative items. Meaning if they meet the Code they must be approved. How-
ever, the Code does outline some conditions that may be placed on these uses to mitigate against potential harm to
neighbors.

This is a public hearing item, allowing the pubic to voice their concerns. Public comments focused on potential nega-
tive impacts and any conditions that could reduce these impacts provide useful information to the Commission.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed conditional use and site plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
2.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
3.    That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
      and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
      be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
4.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                        3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           August 21, 2024

                                             EV Auto Pylon Signs Conditional Use
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Compass Billboards- requests review of a conditional use permit for the EV Auto pylon signs including EMD located at
1060 West State Street.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Braxton Schenk, Tyler Jones
Date of Plans Reviewed: 8/13/24
Time Start: 1:00 pm
Time End: 1:18 pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Provide Plan & section view drawings with dimensions showing location and clearance of 15’ sign and foundation
    from PUE & RMP transmission ROW.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
2. There is an existing 12'' sewer main in this location.it has a 20' easement. Pole will not be allowed in Easement.
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S– Building/Inspections:
3. Add dimensions to the site plan, for the sign’s location.
4. A building permit will be required, separate application and plans need to be submitted.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E– Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
5. Two pylon signs cannot be allowed, but you could lower the height of the 15' sign to 14' and it could fall under the
    monument sign regulations.
6. They need to show justification for any height over 25', per 23.090,I.4.b which reads:
    Businesses that are adjacent to a freeway overpass or similar view-obscuring structure may request review by the
    Planning Commission for additional height. The Planning Commission shall approve only minimal additions to height
    to provide reasonable visibility above the view-obscuring structure. In all cases, the Planning Commission shall
    determine the allowable additional height, if any, on a site specific, case-by-case basis. In the determination of
    allowable additional height, the burden of proof shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
7. The electronic portion of the sign must meet all of the lighting and other standards for electronic message display signs
    in Chapter 23 of the Development Code.
8. The maximum size of a pylon sign shall not exceed 15% of the total square footage for the building wall adjacent to the
    site's street frontage, or 200 square feet, whichever is less.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON SEPTEMBER 12, 2024 PENDING
UPDATES (BEFORE SEPTEMBER 5TH) BEING SENT OVER PRIOR TO THE MEETING.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
