               TEXAS INSTRUMENTS LFAB2 SITE PLAN EXCEPTIONS
                                    PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant         Texas Instruments
                            Meeting Date         September 12, 2024
               Requested Action/Purpose          Approval of exceptions on a proposed site plan
                           Decision Type         Administrative
                                Location         4000 North Flash Drive
                             Project Area        74 acres
                         Existing Zoning         Technical Manufacturing
       General Plan Land Use Designation         Technical Manufacturing
                       Existing Land Use         Existing Texas Instruments Building
          Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North Planned Community Technical Manufacturing Buffer
                                                    South Planned Community Technical Manufacturing Buffer
                                                     East Highland                 Storage Units
                                                     West Planned Community Technical Manufacturing Buffer
                       Date of DRC Review        September 4, 2024
                         Assigned Planner        Brittney Harris

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                      Planning Commission        Final approval
                              City Council       No action required


   APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

 Section 11.260. Site Plan Approval Process.
 A.     Permitted Uses.
        1. Site plans associated with a permitted use require review and approval by the Reviewing Departments. Site
     Plans requesting exceptions to Code requirements require approval by the Planning Commission for the requested
     exceptions. The Reviewing Departments may require that the approval of a site plan be forwarded to the Planning
     Commission if they determine the standards in the Development Code are unclear, or that the project is likely to have
     extenuating or unforeseen impacts beyond what would normally be expected on issues such as traffic, lighting, or
     compatibility of uses.

 Section 37.010. General Nonresidential Design Standards.
 a. Purpose and vision:

     The nonresidential areas of Lehi are intended to prioritize aesthetics and walkability which contribute to the long-
     term sustainability of the city. These standards shall apply to all nonresidential developments in the city that are not
     otherwise located within a designated design standards district. While these areas are not included as part a specific
     design standard district, new development should build upon an appropriate character for the area based on the
     existing and future land use types as depicted in the General Plan.

 A minimum of 20 percent of the facade area on the first floor facing the street shall consist of glass. Where a building is
 located on a corner lot of two local streets, a minimum of 20 percent of each facade on the first floor shall consist of
 glass.

i. Architectural features:

  1. Buildings shall have hierarchal massing at building entrances. Building entrances shall include at least one the
      following features:




 Texas Instruments LFAB2 Site Plan
            a.   roof tower feature;

            b.   pitched roof feature;

            c.   parapet extensions; and

            d.   articulations in the façade.

       2. The hierarchal architectural features around building entrances shall also include at least two of the following
           features:

            a.   differing exterior material types;

            b.   awnings or canopies;

            c.   decorative lighting; and

            d.   increased amount of glass such as side or transom windows.

i.       Setbacks:

         3. Buildings shall provide a sufficient setback to allow for a public utility easement to be placed along the
             frontage of the property. Public utility easements may be placed along the back side of a proposed building as
             approved by the Reviewing Departments. No permanent structures shall be allowed within the public utility
             easement. Additional setbacks from public utility easements may be required by the Reviewing Departments to
             ensure proper clearances are met from building footings to utility lines.

         4. A maximum setback of 50 feet shall be allowed from a building to a city street for all uses unless otherwise
             allowed in Section 37.010.B.5.c.2 and Section 37.010.B.5.c.3.

 i.      Screening:

      5. Mechanical and utility equipment shall be located or screened so as not to be visible from public and private
          streets. Screens shall be aesthetically incorporated into the design of the building whether located on the ground
          or the roof, and may include such treatments as balustrades, parapet walls, or landscaping. Screening materials
          shall be compatible with those of the building.

     Table 37.100. Bike Parking Requirements.


                       USE                           SHORT-TERM SPACES                     LONG-TERM SPACES
      Manufacturing, Industrial,                4 spaces per building                 1 space for each 5 employees
      Wholesale establishments



       PROPERTY HISTORY

     June 21, 1995              Property came into Lehi City as part of the Micron Annexation

     March 25, 2010             Planning Commission approved the Micron Site Plan


       REPORT ANALYSIS

     The applicant requests approval to exceptions to the Texas Instruments LFAB2 Site Plan located at 4000 North
     Flash Drive. The site plan includes an expansion of the existing technical manufacturing building. The applicant



     Texas Instruments LFAB2 Site Plan
has met most of the site plan requirements but does request approval of a few exceptions. This report will focus
solely on the exceptions the Planning Commission must consider granting. The applicant provided an exception
narrative that also outlines these exceptions and their justification for requesting them. They center around building
design, building orientation, utility screening, bicycle parking, pedestrian circulation, and landscaping.

Building Design
The applicant requests an exception to the 20 percent glass requirement citing that glass walls do not work well
with manufacturing. They also did include a glass feature on one of the front facades that also includes decorative
lines resembling computer chips.

The applicant also requests an exception for hierarchical features at the building entrance. This addition will not
include a building entrance. The existing entrance will be used to access the addition. The applicant is also working
with the building department to ensure they meet all International Building Code requirements for ingress, egress
and other safety measures.

The applicant noted seeking an exception for the required three architectural features. Staff determined that they do
meet the requirement for three different architectural features on each building façade.

Building Orientation
The General Nonresidential Design District allows a maximum 50-foot setback from the public street. This
addition is proposed to take place right next to the existing building that exceeds the 50-foot setback. The nature of
the business and the existing building would justify this exception. The applicant also requests an exception for
having the parking between the building and the public street. Again, this will match the existing building.

Utility Screening
The applicant requests clarification that they do meet this requirement. They are putting new utility tanks on the
eastern property lines with a berm and trees to provide visual screening. This meets the intent of the Code to screen
utilities from the public street.

Bicycle Parking
The required number of bicycle parking spots for this use is 243, the applicant requests approval to provide 115.
These numbers reflect the number of existing and new employees for the entire building (existing and new). They
based their 115 number off of the LEED criteria requirement which is five percent of the proposed new building
population.

Pedestrian Circulation
The Code states that raised medians, bulb-outs, and other features should be used to help pedestrian circulation. It
does specifically state that they can be required by the City Engineer. The applicant states that the City Engineer is
not requesting these items.

Landscaping Requirements
The applicant requests an exception to the 30 trees per acre requirement. A limited amount of their site has
irrigation to it. Most of the site has native landscaping that does not receive water. Hence a limited area has the
irrigation capacity to support that many trees. The applicant continues to work with the parks department to
determine alternatives that provide tree coverage that work for this site.

The applicant also requests an exception to the parking island and peninsula requirement. These are required to
help with water runoff. The applicant states that their existing stormwater detention facilities were constructed to
handle these water flows and include infiltration to the groundwater system.

The Planning Commission should indicate in their motion if they approve all or some of these exceptions.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Site Plans are administrative items that must be approved if they meet the Development Code requirements. This site
plan requests exceptions. The Planning Commission should determine if the intent of the Code is met and these
exceptions should be granted. This is not a public hearing item.



Texas Instruments LFAB2 Site Plan
 POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve or deny the proposed exceptions to the TI LFAB2 Site Plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed exceptions still meet/ do not meet the intent of the General Nonresidential Design Standards
         and other requirements of the Development Code.
    2.   The proposed exceptions are allowed to be granted by Code.




Texas Instruments LFAB2 Site Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          September 4, 2024

                                                 Texas Instruments LFAB2 Site
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Texas Instruments- requests review of the Texas Instruments LFAB2 Site Plan located at 4000 North Flash Drive.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, Gary Ellis, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Jordan Buescher, Kelly Gibbons, and Amanda Risano
Date of Plans Reviewed: 8/26/2024
Time Start: 1:42pm
Time End: 1:46pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
1. Change keynote to 3 for 5' MH on all 21'' sewer main
2. Provide slope on all sewer runs between MH's on all sheets,
3. Flume design will need to be approved by TSSD
James – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad and Gary– Engineering: see general comments 1 and 2
Kim – Planning:
4. All requested exceptions to Chapter 37 of the Development Code will require Planning Commission approval.

RECOMMENDATIONS:
1. On the pedestrian walkways through the parking lot, consider incorporating into the landscaped islands, with 5' of
   landscaping on each side of the walkway per Section 37.060 C 2, or changing the material of the walkway to concrete.
2. To help make this trail crossing work best and to provide a more protected refuge, take the median a little beyond the
   crosswalk to provide a refuge space for trail users to be able to wait in when crossing. (See Bluebeam plans)

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)
PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
2. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
   must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
3. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
   process.
4. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
5. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
   Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com).
6. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
   should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
7. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
   Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
   agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
8. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
   monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
   Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
   Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
9. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          September 4, 2024

10. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
11. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. Sewer service to the LFAB2 site is limited to the existing sewer capacity of LFAB1. Once the existing approved
    capacity is achieved, no further expansion of LFAB2 may be operational until offsite sewer improvements are
    complete.
2. Though culinary water flows may be conveyed through Lehi City, water source for this site shall be the responsibility of
    TI through the CUWCD take-down agreement, or through another source.
3. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
    on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
    the building permit.
4. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
5. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
6. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
    off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
    made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
    sheet.
7. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
    and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
8. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
9. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
    being granted.
10. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
    by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
11. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
    be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
    provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
    loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
    construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM IS SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON SEPTEMBER 12, 2024




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
