                         BOWDEN GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        Jill Jones
                                  Meeting Date         September 26, 2024
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation for an amendment to the General
                                                       Plan
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          9861 West 6900 North
                                      Acreage          5.18
                              Existing Zoning          TH-5
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          Very Low-Density Residential Agriculture (VLDRA)
               Proposed Land Use Designation           Low-Density Residential (LDR)
                            Existing Land Use          Agrarian
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North RA-1, R-1-22 Single-family residential
                                                        South R-1-22           College Farms PUD
                                                         East TH-5             Future LDS church
                                                         West R-1-22           College Farms PUD
                             Date of DRC Review        September 4, 2024
                               Assigned Planner        Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval
The Planning Commission should consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a General Plan
amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


 APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES




Bowden General Plan Amendment
  PROPERTY HISTORY

September 12th, 2006                   Lehi City Council approved the George Barber Second Annexation, annexing
                                       this property into Lehi City.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting to amend the General Plan land use designation of this property from Very Low-Density
Residential Agriculture (VLDRA) to Low Density Residential (LDR). This is to facilitate the construction of third-
acre lots. In their narrative, the applicant stated that this request is beneficial to the city in that it will increase the tax
revenue of the city and help with housing affordability. The VLDRA designation requires half-acre lots, but under
the LDR designation with third-acre lots, the homes would be more affordable at just under a million dollars sale
price rather than two million for the half-acre lots. The applicant has also stated that the third-acre lots would be in
character with the nearby College Farms Planned Residential Development as some lots within the subdivision are
around 0.33 acres in size.



Bowden General Plan Amendment
It should be noted how changing the General Plan Designation affects the density of this parcel. The VLDRA desig-
nation allows for a density of 1.75 units an acre, while the LDR designation allows for 3.25 units an acre. Under the
current VLDRA designation, the 5.18 acre parcel could support nine lots. If the amendment were approved to LDR,
the maximum number of lots that could be built on this parcel would be 16.8 lots.

There were three comments from the DRC, all from the Planning Division. They include:
    1. LDR lets you go down to 0.18 acre lots.
    2. Planning Division does not recommend approval of the LDR designation. The focus for increasing density
        should be near existing and future transit service or other land use centers.
    3. Could do a PUD to get 0.30 acre lots and petition the City Council and Planning Commission to consider
        this parcel as an infill development. Only 9 lots would be allowed, and a minimum of 20% open space would
        be required.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

General Plan Amendments are legislative items. This means the Planning Commission will give a recommendation
to the City Council, who will ultimately decide if this amendment will be approved or not. The Planning Commission
has a high level of discretion in recommending approval to the City Council or not. The Planning Commission should
consider if this amendment would be beneficial to the city as a whole, and how this amendment would impact sur-
rounding areas.

This is a public hearing item.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendment to the General
Plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed amendment to the Lehi City General Plan is/is not detrimental to the public health, safety,
         and welfare of Lehi City.
    2.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provisions
         of the General Plan and its various elements.
    3.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not consistent with the land uses and zoning of nearby and
         adjoining properties.
    4.   The proposed General Plan amendment will/will not have a substantial adverse effect on surrounding prop-
         erty.
    5.   The affected site is/is not physically suitable in terms of design, location, shape, size, operating characteris-
         tics, and the provision of public services to accommodate any potential future uses, including all landscap-
         ing, loading areas, open spaces, parking areas, setbacks, buffering/screening, walls, fences, yards, and other
         required features.
    6.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Bowden General Plan Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                       September 4, 2024

                                               Bowden General Plan Amendment
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Corey Bowden – requests review of the Bowden General Plan Amendment on 5.18 acres located at 9861 West 9600 North
changing the land use designation from VLDRA to LDR.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Jill Jones
Date of Plans Reviewed: 8/26/2024
Time Start: 2:15 PM
Time End: 2:30 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No Comments.
Gary – Engineering: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
1. LDR lets you go down to 0.18 acres
2. Planning Division does not recommend approval of the LDR designation. The focus for increasing density should be
    near existing and future transit service or other land use centers.
3. Could do a PUD to get 0.30 acre lots and petition the City Council and Planning Commission to consider this parcel as
    an infill development. Only 9 lots would be allowed, and a minimum of 20% open space is required.


DRC COMMENTS:
Consistency with the elements of the Lehi City General Plan.
The only General Plan Element affected by the proposed amendment is the Land Use Element.

Effect of the proposed amendment on the existing goals, objectives, and policies of the Lehi City General Plan.

Insert Definitions for existing and proposed land uses from the General Plan pages 21-26


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEUDLED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON SEPTEMBER 26TH.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Dear Lehi City,
We are actively looking to simply change the plan from. 50 acres to .30 acres. We respect and
understand the want to preserve. 50 acres. However, it isn't so far off to ask for .30. We want
what's highest and best use for the consumer and the city.
Our thought process is with .30 right off the main street it would allow for a softer more aesthetic
look where we could have some soft landscape/trees/sign and would be more appealing over all
than just large homes right on the street. Respectfully, College Farms is walking distance
southwest at .33 acres. I understand they were major land owners and able to offer open land in
negotiations for .33. I don’t think that smaller land owners should be discriminated against
because they don’t have that land for that option. We are willing to work with you as best as
possible. The next point to highly consider, is that the real estate market and the community in
general is demanding more affordable housing. The .50 acres would have us building 1.7-2mill
homes vs the .30 could lower that to hopefully right under 1 million. With the surrounding
elementary school etc., that seems to be what the community needs. There are several half
acre lots sitting on the market I'm sure because of affordability. Lastly this would create more
tax id's for the city which is a bonus to the city and the community. We appreciate you taking a
practical look at this and working with us amicably.


Best Regards,
Jill Jones
Bart and Corey Bowden
