                                     EMBER HOTEL CONCEPT
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                            Applicant         Steve Kelly
                        Meeting Date          October 10, 2024
            Requested Action/Purpose          Public hearing, review, and consideration of proposed concept plan
                       Decision Type          Administrative
                             Location         Approximately 26 East Main Street
                         Project Area         0.27 acres
                      Existing Zoning         MU
    General Plan Land Use Designation         MU
       Adjacent Zoning and Land Use              North MU                Office
                                                 South MU                Single family residential
                                                  East MU                Hutch’s Furniture Store
                                                  West MU                Single family residential
                    Date of DRC Review        September 25, 2024
                      Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                            REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                           City Council       Final Approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:

The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.

Section 12.080. Project Buffering and Screening Requirements.

C. Required Screening for Mixed Use Districts adjacent to Agriculture and Residential Areas.

1. When a Mixed Use Zoning District or use sides or backs upon an Agriculture or Residential Zoning District,
landscaped buffer areas and screening requirements shall be provided as required by the Zoning Administrator,
Reviewing Departments, Planning Commission, and City Council sufficient to ensure and maintain the integrity and
continued functioning of the adjacent use.

2. The Zoning Administrator, Reviewing Departments, Planning Commission, and City Council shall be guided by, and
may impose, the requirements of Sections 12.080(A) and (B) and any other requirement of Section 12.080.

3. If the buffering and screening requirements of Section 12.080(B) are met, approvals may be given according to the
underlying approval process for the development request.

Section 37.060. Parking Standards- J. Landscaping.

8. The following minimum landscaped setback and separation shall be required for all surface parking lots, unless otherwise
approved by the Planning Commission:




Ember Concept Plan
a. 20 feet from public road rights-of-way; and
b. ten feet from perimeter property lines.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and approval of the Ember Hotel concept plan, requesting an exception to the
Development Code. This report will outline the site layout, the requested exception, and the DRC comments.

Site Layout
The site covers 0.27 acres, and the concept shows a 20-room boutique hotel with a footprint of 3,420 square feet. The
applicant’s narrative mistakenly shows 30-rooms but that has been updated to match the site plan layout.

The project shows 21 parking spaces which meets the parking requirement for one space per unit plus one for the
employee on-site. They will provide additional bicycle parking by the lobby.

The applicant has stated they intend to meet the Historic District design standards with building materials and
landscaping to enhance the historic ambience of the Downtown.

Exception
There is an exception the applicant is requesting to the landscaped setback required from surface parking lots. There is a
DRC comment relating to the 12-foot landscaped buffer, but after DRC the applicant and Staff noticed that the
comment was not relevant to this project because the zoning district for adjacent properties was mixed-use. However,
Staff did realize that a separate provision from Chapter 37 of the Code for parking standards was relevant. The section
is as follows:

The following minimum landscaped setback and separation shall be required for all surface parking lots, unless
otherwise approved by the Planning Commission:
         a. 20 feet from public road rights-of-way; and
         b. ten feet from perimeter property lines.

On the west and south side, the ten-foot requirement is not met. An exception would be required to allow the surface
parking lot to encroach into that landscaped setback space. The west side of the property currently shows just under
eight feet of setback and the south side of the property does not have the setback listed, but it is close to two feet.

DRC Comments
There were 15 comments from the DRC, however many of these were informational to the applicant for what is
required for a site plan submission. The DRC comments include:

1.    Show trash dumpster location on plans and provide brief explanation on how pickup will be accommodated.
2.    A 12' landscaped buffer is required along all property lines adjacent to a residential use unless otherwise approved
      by the Planning Commission.
3.    Visibility of the sidewalk isn't great for vehicles exiting the site. It would be helpful to either increase visibility
      and/or used a raised approach from the parking lot side to make cars slow before they cross the sidewalk (see
      example image in Bluebeam). The parking drive aisle could also be reduced by a foot to provide a bit of narrowing.
4.    Accesses to off-street parking areas shall not connect to Main Street or State Street unless there is no other existing
      means of direct public access from another street or cross access. Currently there is no other point of access, but
      this access will need to be removed at the time neighboring properties develop and provide other access.
5.    Parking lots of new buildings shall provide cross access to adjacent existing parking areas by including a parking
      lot stub to the property line to allow a connection to future development (see Figure 14). Each individual parking
      area shall contribute to the overall creation of a rear alleyway.
6.    The minimum setback is 5' to allow for landscaping, wider sidewalk elements, or outdoor furniture/plaza space.
7.    Development and redevelopment projects in the Historic District have limited opportunities for large landscaped
      areas due to the nature of small properties and the existing street walls. New development and redevelopment
      projects shall provide at a minimum two of the following landscape features:
      1. potted plants (see Figure 17);
      2. hanging planters (see Figure 18);




Ember Concept Plan
      3. window planters; or
      4. small landscaped buffer with shrubs between the building and public sidewalk.
8.    Landscaped areas shall be provided along the rear sides of buildings facing the parking areas with a minimum
      depth of four feet and extend across the width of the parcel other than to allow sidewalks to building entries or
      vehicular accesses where allowed. These landscaped areas shall include small and medium sized shrubs with bark
      mulch or rock ground cover.

Please consider all DRC comments in the motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a concept plan this is an administrative item. If it meets the Code it must be approved. The applicant asks for an
exception to allow parking between the building and the street

The Planning Commission has some level of discretion to grant these exceptions.

This is a public hearing item. Comments focused on specific concerns and ways to mitigate them are the most
beneficial. The public should also be aware that the Planning Commission can only require those items listed in the
Development Code.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve, approve with modifications, or deny the proposed concept plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
      2. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
      3. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Ember Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         September 25, 2024

                                                   Ember Hotels Concept Plan
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Steve Kelly- requests review of the Ember Hotel Concept located at 26 East Main Street.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Tony Trane, Steve Kelly
Date of Plans Reviewed: 9/17/2024
Time Start: 1:08 pm
Time End: 1:50 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. 10’ PUE required over existing secondary lines and your new line at the east side of the property.
2. Show new power equipment location with required clearances.
3. Provide power load sheet for the project.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
4. existing 3/4 culinary water service and 1'' pi service. existing water main in main street is a 2'' main.
James – Parks:
5. If this project moves past concept, a landscape and irrigation plan will be required.
Arnie – Building/Inspections:
6. Show trash dumpster location on plans and provide brief explanation on how pickup will be accommodated.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
7. Show the other sides of the building in future submittals.
8. A 12' landscaped buffer is required along all property lines adjacent to a residential use unless otherwise approved by
    the Planning Commission.
9. Visibility of the sidewalk isn't great for vehicles exiting the site. It would be helpful to either increase visibility and/or
    used a raised approach from the parking lot side to make cars slow before they cross the sidewalk (see example image
    in Bluebeam). The parking drive aisle could also be reduced by a foot to provide a bit of narrowing.
10. Accesses to off-street parking areas shall not connect to Main Street or State Street unless there is no other existing
    means of direct public access from another street or cross access. Currently there is no other point of access, but this
    access will need to be removed at the time neighboring properties develop and provide other access.
11. Parking lots of new buildings shall provide cross access to adjacent existing parking areas by including a parking lot
    stub to the property line to allow a connection to future development (see Figure 14). Each individual parking area
    shall contribute to the overall creation of a rear alleyway.
12. The minimum setback is 5' to allow for landscaping, wider sidewalk elements, or outdoor furniture/plaza space.
13. Development and redevelopment projects in the Historic District have limited opportunities for large landscaped areas
    due to the nature of small properties and the existing street walls. New development and redevelopment projects shall
    provide at a minimum two of the following landscape features:
    1. potted plants (see Figure 17);
    2. hanging planters (see Figure 18);
    3. window planters; or
    4. small landscaped buffer with shrubs between the building and public sidewalk.
14. Landscaped areas shall be provided along the rear sides of buildings facing the parking areas with a minimum depth of
    four feet and extend across the width of the parcel other than to allow sidewalks to building entries or vehicular
    accesses where allowed. These landscaped areas shall include small and medium sized shrubs with bark mulch or rock
    ground cover.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         September 25, 2024

15. The following architectural requirements will need to be met:
    i. Street transparency:
    1. The facades facing street frontages shall include large clear glass windows on the
    street level with smaller windows allowed on the upper floors. Opaque, heavily
    tinted, or reflective glass is inappropriate, and shall not be used. When glass is tinted,
    it shall allow for a minimum 60 percent light to pass through into the building.
    2. A minimum of 50 percent of the facade area on the first floor facing Main Street and
    State Street shall consist of glass (see Figure 2).
    3. A minimum of 40 percent of the facade area on the first floor facing other public
    streets and walkways shall consist of glass

    1. Each facade of the building facing a street shall include all of the following:
    a. decorative cornice;
    b. concrete or stone wainscot at a minimum 30 inches in height except for under
    windows;
    c. decorative lighting;
    d. awnings or canopies; and
    e. vertical separation between the upper floors and first floor of a building. Vertical
    separation may be accomplished with a difference in materials, decorative
    molding, awning, or other similar feature.

    2. Each facade of the building facing a street shall include at least two of the following
    additional architectural features shall be incorporated into the entire facade:
    a. columns or pilasters;
    b. decorative molding;
    c. decorative brick accents around windows;
    d. window and door lintels;
    e. stringcourse;
    f. brick corbeling;
    g. wood wainscot panels;
    h. balcony; and
    i. Other comparable architectural features as approved by the Zoning Administrator
    and Planning Commission.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON OCTOBER 10, 2024
(NEEDS ENVELOPES)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
Ember Hotel Concept Plan Application

This concept application is for a 30-room boutique hotel located at 26 East Main St.

The building materials will be a combination of brick, hardboard siding, and stucco.

The project will include at least the minimum 10%/2% landscaping requirements and fit within the
historic district design standards.

The Ember Hotel will capitalize on and enhance the historic ambience of the downtown area.
