LEHI CITY DEVELOPMENT CODE CHAPTER 5-A

CRITICAL HOMEOWNERSHIP OVERLAY ZONE (CHOZ)

Section 5A.010. Definitions
Section 5A.020. Purpose
Section5A.030. Description
Section5A.040. Allowed Uses
Section 5A.050. Requirements for CHOZ Projects.
Section 5A.060. Approval Process.
Section5A.070. Amendments to Development Plan.


Section. XX.010. Definitions.

For purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions apply:

  a) “Critical and Essential Workers” means persons who are actively employed within the Lehi City
      boundary at jobs considered critical and essential, including employees of Lehi City, and
      employees in the sectors of health care, education, childcare, religion, charity, retail, public safety,
      construction and trade, military and veterans, other government entities. and transportation.
  b) “Critical Infrastructure” means the subdivision improvements required for residential development
      in the CHOZ and may include, but is not limited to, an analysis of the culinary and pressurized
      irrigation water rights, source, storage and delivery capacity; sewer pipeline capacity; power
      sourcing, redundancy; adverse traffic impacts and roadway capacities.
  c) “Legitimate Offer” means a qualified offer to purchase a residential unit, with assurances of the
      means to complete the purchase, of at least the average sales price of other comparable units in
      the Development over the past twelve months.
  d) “Lehi Resident” means a person whose permanent residence has been within the boundaries of
      Lehi City for each of the past twelve months.
  e) “Owner Occupied” means occupied by the owner of the residential unit or their immediate family
      member, including the trustee or beneficiary of a trust or their immediate family member.
  e)f) “Hardship” means significant medical emergencies, loss of employment or significant loss of
      income, divorce, relocation for employment, military service, religious service, or death of a
      spouse or co-owner. In the event of a financial or personal Hardship, owners shall be allowed an
      exemption to the owner-occupancy requirement.
Section. XX.020. Purpose.

The Critical Homeownership Overlay Zone (CHOZ) is an overlay zone to be applied over an underlying
zoning designation. The CHOZ may be allowed at the discretion of the City Council in any part of the
City by complying with the provisions of this Chapter. The Critical Homeownership Overlay Zone has no
minimum acre size and need not be adjacent to other CHOZ zones. The Critical Homeownership Overlay
Zone provisions of this Code are a zoning district that will create homeownership opportunities for
Critical and Essential Workers and others by increasing the number of financially attainable single family
detached homes within the City. The intent is to:

    • make single family housing significantly more attainable for the majority of current and future Lehi
          residents who desire to own a home;
    • provide priority opportunities for homeownership to Critical and Essential Workers;
    • integrate a variety of housing choices into all parts of Lehi City appropriate for residents in all
          stages of life;
      • provide flexible development options for single family detached housing where the standard lot
           pattern and typical development standards do not provide attainability;
      • provide flexibility in architectural design, placement of buildings, setbacks, parking, and other
           related cost saving considerations;
      • support reductions in development costs and ongoing maintenance costs to aid in significantly
           reducing the cost of the homes being built in the CHOZ;
      • provide for efficient use of public services and improvements;
      • promote an attractive and safe living environment;
      • Provide pride and stability through homeowners that will provide city residents with a higher life
           satisfaction and perceived control over their lives;

Section XX.030. Description.
A Critical Homeownership Development is a subdivision containing houses and dwelling units with
some or all of the lots sizes reduced below the minimum lot sizes typically required in zoning district
upon or adjacent to the subject property, with the intent of the home sales price being at least twenty
percent (20%) lower than the average market price of new single family detached homes on lot sizes and
home square footage similar to those in the Base Concept. These projects require that the planning for
lots and the locations of houses and dwellings be achieved in a coordinated, functional and unified
manner, with the final home sale price as the foundation for design. Because the intent is to provide
increased attainable housing availability without increasing infrastructure costs, greater flexibility in
development standards is possible while maintaining the beauty and desirability of the community.

Section XX.040. Allowed Uses.
The Critical Homeownership Overlay Zone allows a variety of single family detached residential types
that meet the purpose outlined above as a permitted use. Attached residential homes may be considered
when they create attainable Target Price homeownership opportunities in areas that do not have a land
mass that can support single family detached homes but makes sense for residential development and
affordability. Critical Homeownership Overlay Zones are intended to be of such size and location to not
require commercial or other uses except residential, but may be located near such uses.

Section XX.050. Requirements for Critical Homeownership Overlay Zone Projects.
A.    Qualifying Districts. Critical Homeownership Developments may be allowed at the discretion of
the City Council, with review and recommendation by City Staff and the Planning Commission public
hearing, in all parts of the City.

B.     Density and Design. The overall project density in a particular Critical Homeownership Overlay
Zone, the design of the subdivision and units, and applicable development standards will be determined
by the City Council and memorialized in a development agreement, following a recommendation from
the Planning Commission, and review by the reviewing departments to evaluate utility and other critical
infrastructure capacities and in consideration of the Target Price (defined below). No minimum density
is required.

C.    Critical and Essential Housing. To ensure that all units in the Critical Homeownership Overlay
Zone remain attainable to the target customers, the Units within the CHOZ shall be subject to recorded
deed restrictions, enforceable by the City, that contain at least the following:

     1. The deed restrictions shall be in effect and applicable to the units for no less than ten years
        following the issuance of the first certificate of occupancy for each home. Following the expiration
        of the deed restriction, they shall have no further force nor effect.
     2. Units must be owner occupied, unless the owner experiences a Hardshipis on active military duty
        or full-time religious service, in which case the unit may be temporarily rented for a period of up
          to 12 months. This period may be extended for an additional 12 months upon proof that the
          Hardship persists.
     2.3. The deed restriction will be enforceable by the City or another entity as identified in the deed
          restriction.
     3. Units may not be sold or transferred sooner than twelve months following the initial sale, unless
          the owner is onexperiences a Hardship active military duty or full time religious service. owners
          may sell their property without penalties under Hardship conditions. If applicable, any
          affordability restrictions tied to the owner-occupancy requirement may be waived or transferred
          to the new owner, ensuring continuity of affordable housing provisions;
     4. For the first 30 days after a unit is listed or advertised as available for sale, including subsequent
          sales following the initial sale, the owner may not accept an offer to purchase unless such offer
          comes from one or more of the following:
               (a) Critical and Essential Workers,
               (b) a Lehi Resident who does not currently own a home, or
               (c) a first-time homebuyer.
     5. If, after 30 days of listing or advertising the unit for sale including on, but not limited to, the local
          MLS an owner has not received a Legitimate Offer from a person listed in the previous paragraph,
          then the owner may offer the property to the general public and accept offers therefrom.
     6. Developer shall, in the initial sale of the Property, accept a price no more than 5% different from
          the Target Price (defined below).                                                                         Formatted: Not Highlight
     7. Sales of units shall be price-controlled up to 10 5 years until the expiration of the deed restriction,
          so that each year following the establishment thereof, a home sale may capture no more home
          equity than the percentage of the difference between appraised home sales price above the Target
          Price, in accordance with the following formula and illustration: (A – B) x C = Z

                                                                                  Example
     Years following          Allowed % of            Example Target                               Example Maximum
                                                                               Appraised Value
       Initial Sale           Equity ("C")              Price ("B")                                   Equity ("Z")
                                                                                    ("A")
         Prior to 1 year                     0%                 $500,000                 $505,000                    $0
              Prior to 2                 1020%                  $500,000                 $510,000                $1,000
              Prior to 3                 2040%                  $500,000                 $520,000                $4,000
              Prior to 4                 3060%                  $500,000                 $530,000                $9,000
              Prior to 5                 4080%                  $500,000                 $540,000              $16,000
              Prior to 6                   50%                  $500,000                 $550,000              $25,000
              Prior to 7                   60%                  $500,000                 $560,000              $36,000
              Prior to 8                   70%                  $500,000                 $570,000              $49,000
              Prior to 9                   80%                  $500,000                 $580,000              $64,000
             Prior to 10                   90%                  $500,000                 $590,000              $81,000
                   510+      Restriction expired      Restriction expired      Restriction expired  Restriction expired

Section XX.060. Approval Process.
Critical Homeownership Developments, are to be reviewed and approved in accordance with the
following process:

A.      Establishment of Target Price. The density, design, configuration, and development standards of
        the subdivision and dwelling units shall enable initial home sales at a target price established by
        the City Council. The City Council, after receiving a recommendation from the Economic
        Development Director, and in consultation with City departments, shall establish a target initial
     home sales price (“Target Price”). The Target Price should be at least twenty percent (20%) lower
     than the average market price of new single family detached homes on lot sizes and home square
     footage similar to those in the Base Concept that have been constructed within 12 months of the
     zoning application within a radius of one mile of the Critical Homeownership Overlay Zone.

B.   Concept Plan. Applicant shall submit two concept plans simultaneously to the City Council for
     consideration at the time of rezoning application: The first concept plan must illustrate what the
     lot count and lineal footage of infrastructure are in the current zoning district or the adjacent zoning
     district to the subject property (“Base Concept”) and the second concept plan must illustrate what
     the lot count and lineal footage of infrastructure are to enable initial sales of units at the Target
     Price (“Attainable Concept”).
     1.    Developer’s concept plans shall include:
           (a) Concept plans of single family detached lots showing the lot size of a typical unattainable
                 development contrasted against the Concept Plan showing a reduced lot size and design
                 of attainable development that meets the Target Price.
           (b) A table showing the estimated per-door costs to the Developer under each plan, including
                 infrastructure costs and Developer’s expected margins.
     2.    Developer’s concept plan should avoid the creation of a homeowner’s association (HOA) that
           can impose assessments, when possible. Unless specific conditions exist requiring an HOA as
           determined by the City Council.

C.   Development Agreement. The applicant and City Staff shall prepare a Development Agreement
     memorializing the accepted Target Price, proposed lot size, subdivision design, and unit design, in
     accordance with Developer’s Concept Plan. The Development Agreement shall also include an
     exhibit showing the form of the deed restriction outlining the qualification, terms and conditions,
     and the party to enforce the deed restriction.

D.   Zone Change and Development Agreement Adoption. Following preparation of the Development
     Agreement and Concept Plan, Developer shall apply to the City for adoption of the Critical
     Residential Overlay Zone, and adoption of the Development Agreement. Approval of Critical
     Homeownership Developments are subject to the requirements of this Chapter and procedures as
     contained in this Code. Critical Homeowner Overlay Zone and accompanying Development
     Agreement approval are legislative decisions by the City Council, subject to established procedures
     for zone changes, including a public hearing at Planning Commission stage. If approved, the
     application of the overlay zone should be approved first, immediately followed by approval of the
     Development Agreement.

E.   Preliminary Plat. Following approval and adoption of the CHOZ and Development Agreement,
     review of the preliminary plat is an administrative and technical matter. The Preliminary Plat
     examines subdivision design in accordance with the concept plan and development agreement.
     Preliminary approval shall only be granted when there is a reasonable certainty that the Critical
     Homeownership Development will fulfill all requirements of this Chapter and the concept plan
     and development agreement. The preliminary application requirements for a Critical
     Homeownership Development are those identified for a preliminary subdivision plat as identified
     in Section 11.070, except with respect to conflicting matters in this code or the Concept Plan and
     Development Agreement, which control. The preliminary plat will receive approval from the
     zoning administrator following a review by the reviewing departments.

F.   Final Plat. Review of the final plat is an administrative and technical matter. The applicant shall
     submit the detailed and technical information necessary to demonstrate that all City standards,
     requirements, and conditions have been met. Approval shall only be granted if the final plat is in
     conformance with the preliminary approval and the requirements of the City for final subdivision
     plat approval as identified in Section 11.120 have been met.

Section XX.070. Amendments to the Development Plan.

Applicants may be granted revisions to approved preliminary or final Critical Homeownership
Development plans. Requests for revisions shall be submitted in writing to the City. Changes and
amendments to approved preliminary and final Planned Critical Residential Development plans shall be
processed following the same procedure as the original review and approval unless they are determined
to meet the standards for a Minor Revision as identified in Section 14.020 of this Code.
