Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                       September 4, 2024

                                               Bowden General Plan Amendment
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Corey Bowden – requests review of the Bowden General Plan Amendment on 5.18 acres located at 9861 West 9600 North
changing the land use designation from VLDRA to LDR.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Jill Jones
Date of Plans Reviewed: 8/26/2024
Time Start: 2:15 PM
Time End: 2:30 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No Comments.
Gary – Engineering: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
1. LDR lets you go down to 0.18 acres
2. Planning Division does not recommend approval of the LDR designation. The focus for increasing density should be
    near existing and future transit service or other land use centers.
3. Could do a PUD to get 0.30 acre lots and petition the City Council and Planning Commission to consider this parcel as
    an infill development. Only 9 lots would be allowed, and a minimum of 20% open space is required.


DRC COMMENTS:
Consistency with the elements of the Lehi City General Plan.
The only General Plan Element affected by the proposed amendment is the Land Use Element.

Effect of the proposed amendment on the existing goals, objectives, and policies of the Lehi City General Plan.

Insert Definitions for existing and proposed land uses from the General Plan pages 21-26


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEUDLED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON SEPTEMBER 26TH.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
