                  SEASONS ESTATES PLAT E PLAT AMENDMENT
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant         Trevor and Erika Shelton
                         Meeting Date          October 24, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose          Approval of a proposed plat amendment
                              Location         4504 North Summer View Drive
     Existing General Plan Designation         Low Density Residential (LDR)
                       Existing Zoning         Planned Community (PC)
                    Existing Land Use          Single Family Homes
                 Number of Lots/Units          3
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use              North PC (LDR)              Single Family Homes
                                                  South PC (LDR)              Single Family Homes
                                                   East PC (LDR)              Single Family Homes
                                                   West PC (LDR)              Single Family Homes
                    Date of DRC Review         October 9, 2024
                      Assigned Planner         Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission         Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.340. Vacating, Altering, or Amending a Recorded Subdivision Plat. (Amended 07/10/12)
The City Council may consider, after Reviewing Departments review, any proposed vacation, alteration, or amend-
ment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision plat, or any road or lot, contained in a subdivision plat.

    A. A fee owner of land, as shown on the last county assessment roll, in a subdivision that has been laid out
    and platted as provided in this part may file an application to have some or all of the plat vacated or amended.
    B. The City Council shall hold a public hearing within forty-five (45) days after the day on which the appli-
    cation is filed if:

         1.       Any owner within the plat notifies the City of the owner's objection in writing within ten (10)
         days of mailed notification; or

         2.       A public hearing is required because all of the owners in the subdivision have not signed the
         revised plat.

    C. The public hearing requirement of Subsection B does not apply and the City Council may consider at a
    public meeting an owner's request to vacate or amend a subdivision plat if the application seeks to:

         1.   Join two or more of the applicant fee owner's contiguous lots;

         2. Subdivide one or more of the applying fee owner's lots, if the subdivision will not result in a violation
         of a land use ordinance or a development condition;

         3. Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or parcels if the fee owners of each of the adjoining lots or parcels
         join in the application, regardless of whether the lots or parcels are located in the same subdivision;

         4.   On a lot owned by the applying fee owner, adjust an internal lot restriction imposed by the City; or

         5.   Alter the plat in a manner that does not change existing boundaries or other attributes of lots within
         the subdivision that are not:
              a. owned by the applicant; or
              b. designated as a common area

    D. Each request to vacate or amend a plat that contains a request to vacate or amend a public street, right-of-
    way, or easement is also subject to the State Code requirements for vacation of a public right-of-way.

    E. Each request to vacate or amend an entire plat or a portion of a plat shall include:

         1. The name and address of each owner of record of the land contained in the entire plat or on that portion
         of the plat described in the application; and

         2.   The signature of each owner described in Subsection (E)(1) who consents to the application.

Section 11.350. Plat Amendment Approval Process and Recordation. (Amended 07/10/12)

    A. Following a review by the Reviewing Departments, the City Council may approve the vacation or amend-
    ment of a plat by signing an amended plat showing the vacation or amendment if the Council finds that:

         1.   There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and

         2.   No public street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or amended.

    B. The City Council shall ensure that the amended plat showing the vacation or amendment is recorded in the
    office of the County Recorder.

    C. An amended plat may not be submitted to the County Recorder for recording unless it is signed, acknowl-
    edged, and dedicated by each owner of record of the portion of the plat that is amended.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

July 26, 1997              Property came into the City as part of the Deerfield Annexation.

January 24, 2012           City Council approved the updated Traverse Mountain Area Plan designating this area
                           as Low Density Residential.

October 11, 2016           City Council approved the Seasons Estates Plat B Subdivision


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Seasons Estates Plat E Subdivision amending lots 216, 218 and 219 of Sea-
sons Estates Plat E. The changes will not create any new lots but reconfigure the existing lot lines. Lot 218 will take
the back portion of Lot 216 and readjust the line with 219.

All of the proposed lots still meet the minimum 8,000 square foot lot requirement in the Traverse Mountain Area
Plan. The Area Plan also requires a 60-foot lot width, it appears that all of the lots meet this requirement at the 20-
foot front yard setback.

The DRC had two DRC comments including:
1. Move the Utah County Recorder box to the bottom of the page
2. Add a note on the plat that any grading on the lot that will change the drainage of the lot needs review and approval
    by the City.

Please include all DRC comments in your motion.
 POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve or approve with modifications the Seasons Estates Plat E proposed plat
amendment. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed plat amendment does not create any new lots.
    2.   The proposed subdivision meets/ does not meet the requirements of the Traverse Mountain Area Plan.
    3.   The proposed subdivision meets/does not meet the requirements of the Development Code.
    4.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public meeting.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           October 9, 2024

                                                      Seasons Estates Plat E
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Trevor and Erika Shelton- request review of a Plat Amendment for Seasons Estates Plat E, amending lots 216,218 and 219
of Seasons Estates Plat B

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Jackson and Erika Shelton
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/1/2024
Time Start: 1:06pm
Time End: 1:11pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E.– Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Move the Utah County Recorder box to the bottom of the page
2. Add a note on the plat that any grading on the lot that will change the drainage of the lot needs review and approval by
    the City.


PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (NONE)


PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.




THIS ITEM NEEDS ENVELOPES FOR EVERYONE WITHIN 300 FEET AND WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION ON OCTOBER 24, 2024

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
