             BAILEY’S POINTE PLAT D PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant         Shamrock Homes
                          Meeting Date          November 14, 2024
               Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation for a proposed preliminary
                                                subdivision
                           Decision Type        Administrative
                                Location        388 North 100 East
       Existing General Plan Designation        MDR
                         Existing Zoning        R-1-8
                      Existing Land Use         Vacant property
                   Number of Lots/Units         2 lots
          Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North R-1-8                  Single family residential
                                                   South R-1-8                  Single family residential
                                                    East R-1-8                  Single family residential
                                                    West R-1-8                  Single family residential
                      Date of DRC Review        October 16, 2024
                        Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code, in-
cluding review by the Reviewing Departments, and review and approval by the Planning Commission following a
public hearing.

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has
been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.



  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872- This property is part of the original incorporated boundaries of Lehi City.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and final approval of the proposed Bailey’s Pointe Plat D Preliminary and Final Sub-
division, a two-lot residential subdivision located at 388 North 100 East in an R-1-8 zone.

The proposal will divide an existing property into two lots and will remove the existing house, garage, and surface
improvements on the property. The existing property is approximately 0.38 acres and will be divided into two lots of




Bailey’s Point Plat D Preliminary Subdivision
approximately 0.19 acres. The proposed lots both exceed the 8,000 square foot lot minimum and meet the lot frontage
requirements for the zone. The proposed lots are similar in size to the surrounding subdivision lots and will match
the lot density on the North side of 400 N.

The DRC reviewed the proposed subdivision and had five technical redline comments:

1. Provide Lehi city detail sheets for all services in plan set.
2. Provide flared drive approach for neighbor's driveway
3. Provide detail of traffic rated and bicycle safe lid and grating
4. Provide calculations for rear yard sumps.
5. 0.20 CFS/ac discharge is for drainage into storm drain system. Calculations should use 1/2 of measured percolation
rate for sumps.

Please include all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Subdivision review is an administrative action. Preliminary subdivisions are approved at the Planning Commission
level. During their review, the Planning Commission should determine if the proposed preliminary subdivision meets
the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code. The Planning Commission can include in their motion any
changes that need to be made to meet Code requirements.

As a public hearing item, residents may make comments on potential concerns. Concerns focused around Code re-
quirements or reasonable conditions that could mitigate against potential negative impacts, are the most helpful.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed preliminary subdivision.
Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:


    1.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
         gards to subdivision approvals.
    2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Bailey’s Point Plat D Preliminary Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         October 16, 2024

                                                      Bailey’s Pointe Plat D
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Shamrock Homes- requests preliminary & final subdivision review of Bailey’s Pointe Plat D, a 2-lot residential
development located at 388 North 100 East.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Brad
    Kenison, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Lisa Hardman
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/8/2024
Time Start: 1:45 pm
Time End: 1:50 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: (rallred@lehi-ut.gov)
1. Provide Lehi city detail sheets for all services in plan set.
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S– Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E – Engineering: (gellis@lehi-ut.gov)
2. Provide flared drive approach for neighbor's driveway
3. Provide detail of traffic rated and bicycle safe lid and grating
4. Provide calculations for rear yard sumps.
5. 0.20 CFS/ac discharge is for drainage into storm drain system. Calculations should use 1/2 of measured percolation
rate for sumps.
Kim – Planning: No comments

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)
PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
2. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
   improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
3. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
   supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
   necessary supplies for the development.
4. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
   monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
   Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
   Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
5. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Submit a title report to the planner over the project for review.
4. Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
   property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.
5. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
6. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         October 16, 2024

DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON NOVEMBER 14, 2024.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
