                 CHAPTER 37 DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant        AWA Engineering
                           Meeting Date         November 14, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation on proposed amendments to the Lehi City
                                                Development Code
                            Decision Type       Legislative
                      Date of DRC Review        October 23, 2024

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                             City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General Plan.
In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and the City
Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties.
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting an amendment to Chapter 37 of the Development Code. The amendment includes adding an
exception for the connectivity standards between nonresidential and residential uses if the connection creates an incom-
patible traffic pattern. For example, if the road connection leads into a loading dock or a drive through, this exception
could allow for a bike and pedestrian connection only rather than requiring the road to connect through. The exception
would be considered on a case-by-case basis and would require approval by the Planning Commission.

The applicant is requesting this exception to the Development Code to allow for the construction of a grocery store. The
road connection from an existing adjacent subdivision would lead directly into the loading dock of the grocery store. The
applicant is concerned about vehicle conflicts between cars and semi-trucks in the loading dock if the road connection
were required to go through. Staff evaluated other sites in the City of where there could be a potential conflict similar in
nature to what the applicant is describing and found additional sites where a conflict could arise.

DRC Comments
There were four comments from the DRC. They include:
1.    We don’t use the word “unsafe” in the Development Code. Suggest “incompatible”.
2.    Specify that the bike/ped connection be a 10’ wide trail connection that interconnects the sidewalk and the street.
3.    Remove language specifying delivery areas or commercial building/structure.
4.    Add additional sentence stating – “cannot request connection to be modified if the adjacent road is an arterial.”

The suggested modifications to the amendment have been updated and are included in the packet. Please include all DRC
comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Code amendments are legislative items. The Planning Commission can provide either a positive or negative recom-
mendation to the City Council. The City Council will be the final approving body, and the decision to approve or deny
the code amendment lies with them.

This is a public hearing item. The public can comment on this item, and the Planning Commission can include sug-
gestions from the public in their motion.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendments to the Lehi
City Development Code. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provi-
           sions of the General Plan and its various elements.
      2.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           October 23, 2024

                               Ch 37 Connectivity Standards Development Code Amendment
                                                 DRC Redline Comments

AWA requests review of the Chapter 37 Development Code Amendment, adding an exception to the connectivity standards
for vehicular safety.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Rick
Date of Plans Reviewed:
Time Start: 2:15 PM
Time End: 2:40 PM


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments.
Luke- Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
1. We don't use the word "unsafe" in the Development Code. Suggest "incompatible".
2. Specify that the bike/ped connection be a 10' wide trail connection that interconnects the sidewalk and the street.
3. Remove language specifying delivery areas or commercial building/structure.
4. Add additional sentence stating – “Cannot request connection to be modified if the adjacent road is an arterial.”

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEUDLED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON NOVEMBER 14TH.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
    4. Cross Access. Nonresidential and multi-family residential site plans shall provide pedestrian and
       vehicular cross-access to adjacent developments to allow auto and pedestrian trips to occur between
       developments (see Figure 158).




Figure 158. Adjacent nonresidential uses provide cross-access which reduces trips required on the surrounding streets.


     5. Nonresidential to Residential Connections. New nonresidential and multi-family residential site
     plans shall:

           a.    connect all existing street and pedestrian walkway stubs to proposed streets and walkways
                 within the site plan.; However, if a connection creates an incompatible traffic pattern due to
                 proximity of the connection to a commercial loading dock, the connection may be modified to
                 a 10-foot wide bike and pedestrian connection only. Requests for a modified connection will
                 be considered on a case-by-case basis and shall require review by the reviewing departments
                 and approval by the Planning Commission. A modification request will not be considered if
                 the adjacent road is an arterial.

           b.    extend all existing street stubs through a proposed nonresidential or multi-family site plan to
                 an adjacent collector or arterial street (see Figure 159); and




Figure 159. Local street stub connects a residential subdivision through a commercial site to an adjacent arterial street.


           c.    stub roads to abutting vacant properties shall be spaced not to exceed 1,000 feet as measured
                 along the property line of the proposed site plan (refer to Figure 155). The maximum stub road
                 spacing may be increased if the applicant provides clear and convincing evidence that it is
                 impracticable to achieve due to the following limitations:



                                                     37-91 Connectivity Standards
i. road grades that exceed ten percent




                             37-2 Parking Standards
