                                LEHI VET CLINIC CONCEPT PLAN
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant        Eight14 LLC
                          Meeting Date         November 14, 2024
              Requested Action/Purpose         Review and approval of concept plan
                         Decision Type         Administrative
                               Location        Hardman Way and Redwood Road
                           Project Area        1.25 acres
                        Existing Zoning        Commercial
      General Plan Land Use Designation        Commercial
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North Commercial              Vacant
                                                  South Vacant                  Saratoga Springs
                                                   East Heavy Commercial        Vacant
                                                   West Commercial              Commercial
                       Date of DRC Review      October 30, 2024
                         Assigned Planner      Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission       Public hearing, review, and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.

Section 37.010. Nonresidential Design Standards.
5. State Highway Design Standards

              i. Setbacks:

                  1. Buildings shall provide a sufficient setback to allow for a public utility easement to be placed
                       along the frontage of the property. Public utility easements may be placed along the back side of
                       a proposed building as approved by the Reviewing Departments. No permanent structures shall
                       be allowed within the public utility easement. Additional setbacks from public utility easements
                       may be required by the Reviewing Departments to ensure proper clearances are met from
                       building footings to utility lines.

                  2. A maximum setback of 50 feet shall be allowed from a building to a city street for all uses unless
                       otherwise allowed in Section 37.010.B.5.c.2 and Section 37.010.B.5.c.3.

                  3. A minimum setback of 30 feet shall be required from a building, necessary drive aisles for
                       loading docks, and drive-thrus to the property line of the Redwood Road, 2100 North, I-15, and
                       Pioneer Crossing corridors.


    2.   Exceptions:



Lehi Vet Clinic Concept Plan
    Exceptions to Section 37.010 may be approved by the Planning Commission provided the following:

         a. The applicant shall provide evidence that the exception to the design standards improves the design quality,
            walkability/bike-ability, or ability conduct the proposed use on the subject property, as determined by the
            Planning Commission.

         b. The applicant shall provide justification on how the proposed project fits in with the purpose and vision of
            the design standards district in which it is located.

         c. Exceptions may be granted to allow parking between the building and street, however in the Historic,
            Roller Mills, Urban Village, Mill Pond and Urban Tech Mixed Use Districts, any exception shall be limited
            to a maximum of one module of parking. In all cases where an exception is granted to allow parking
            between the building and the street, an ADA compliant pedestrian access shall be accommodated from the
            building entrance to the street sidewalk.

         i. Buildings located on corner lots shall only be allowed an exception to the building orientation on one side
            of the building with the other side of the building maintaining no parking between the building and the
            street within the Historic, Roller Mills, Urban Village, Mill Pond, and Urban Tech Mixed Use Districts.



  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and approval of the Lehi Vet Clinic Concept Plan located on approximately 1.25 acres
at Hardman Way and Redwood Road. The applicant is requesting an exception to Chapter 37 of the Development
Code. Specifically, they are requesting to exceed the 50-foot maximum setback in the State Highway Design
Standards. This report will go over the overall layout of the site and the exception being requested.

A plat amendment to subdivide this parcel has been submitted to the City by a separate applicant to facilitate the
construction of this vet clinic. The plat amendment is currently moving through the City process now and will require
approval by the Planning Commission at a later date. The vet clinic itself is proposed to be within an 8,000 square
foot building with 4,000 square feet set aside for the vet clinic. The remaining square footage will be set aside as a
shell for future use.

The topography of the site makes it challenging to meet the maximum 50-foot setback. There is a significant drop in
grade from Redwood Road and Hardman Way to the site that causes the building to essentially sit in a bowl. The
amount of fill required to raise the site up to meet the setback is significant. Therefore, the applicant is asking for an
exception to the 50-foot setback.

All other elements of site plan approval, including the building materials percentage, the glass percentage, and
sidewalk connectivity standards were communicated to the applicant in DRC. The applicant will provide a site plan
submission that meets all other requirements of the Development Code to receive site plan approval.

DRC Comments
There were 12 comments from the DRC, many of which were comments that informed the applicant of what would
be required at site plan. Some of note include:
     1. A maximum setback of 50-feet shall be allowed from a building to a city street for all uses unless otherwise
         allowed in Section 37.020B.5.c.2 and Section 37.010.B.5.c.3. An exception will be required from the
         Planning Commission if the setback cannot be met.
     2. Stucco and EIFS may be used up to 30 percent of each wall area excluding windows and doors as a
         secondary material only.
     3. A minimum of 20 percent of the façade area on the first floor facing the street shall consist of glass.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.




Lehi Vet Clinic Concept Plan
  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Concept plans are an administrative item. If it meets the Code it must be approved. However, the applicant is asking
for an exception to the maximum setback requirement of 50-feet from a building to a city street. It is up to the
discretion of the Planning Commission to grant this exception.

This is a public hearing item. Comments focused on specific concerns and ways to mitigate them are the most
beneficial. The public should also be aware that the Planning Commission can only require those items listed in the
Development Code.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve, approve with modifications, or deny the proposed exception. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1. The requested exception is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
    2. The requested exception does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Lehi Vet Clinic Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           October 30, 2024

                                                     Lehi Vet Clinic Concept
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Eight14 LLC - requests review of the Lehi Vet Clinic Concept Plan, located on 1.25 acres at approximately Hardman Way
and Redwood Road, requesting exceptions to the Chapter 37 design standards building orientation.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Jared Ford, Alex Milosevic
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/16/24
Time Start: 1:10 PM
Time End: 1:25 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Required at site plan submission:
              a. Indicate preferred transformer location in conformance with NFPA and Lehi Power specifications.
                  https://www.lehi-ut.gov/departments/power/specifications/
              b. Indicate service location and main breaker size
              c. Submit a completed electrical load estimate sheet. https://www.lehi-ut.gov/wp-
                  content/uploads/2020/04/LoadEstimatorSheet.pdf
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks:
2. Required at site plan submission:
              a. A complete landscape and irrigation plan is required.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
3. Required at site plan submission:
              a. Soil report will be required if this moves past concept.
Shelbey – Public Works:
4. Required at site plan/precon:
              a. SWPPP will be required prior to precon
              b. SSOMP/LTSWMP will be required prior to precon (might be able to combined with SSOMP from
                  Hardman Crossing Plat A Amendment)
              c. We will need 80th percentile retention.
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments.
Luke- Traffic:
5. Required at site plan submission:
              a. Traffic impact study will be required. Reach out to Luke Seegmiller to begin the process at
                  lseegmiller@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2530
Kim – Planning:
6. A maximum setback of 50 feet shall be allowed from a building to a city street for all uses unless otherwise allowed in
    Section 37.010.B.5.c.2 and Section 37.010.B.5.c.3. Will require an exception from the Planning Commission if setback
    cannot be met.
7. Stucco and EIFS may be used up to 30 percent of each wall area excluding windows and doors as a secondary material
    only
8. A minimum of 20 percent of the facade area on the first floor facing the street shall consist of glass
9. Will need to connect this sidewalk over to the adjacent development.
10. Will need to connect this sidewalk down to the one on Hardman.
11. Tie this sidewalk over to allow connectivity to the parking lot and the stub to the north in the future development.
12. Required at site plan submission:
              a. There shall be a minimum of a 20-foot landscaped buffer adjacent to the Redwood Road. The buffer shall
                  include a water-wise landscape with trees and shrubs.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           October 30, 2024

              b.   Include a breakdown of the materials, including the glass percentage.
              c.   A minimum of 30 trees per acre based on the total project acreage shall be provided in open space areas
                   to contribute towards an urban forest.
              d.   Include vehicle parking tabulation at site plan. Parking is 1 per 300 square feet for small animal hospitals.
              e.   1 inverted U bike parking stall required outside.
              f.   Long-term bike parking required. 1 space per 5 employees.



DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).

THIS ITEM IS/IS NOT REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.
(An exception requires stamped addressed envelopes for public noticing if the project proceeds to Planning Commission)

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON NOVEMBER 14TH PENDING
CONFIRMATION FROM DEVELOPER.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
Lehi Veterinary Clinic – Project Description
   A. Type of Development
         a. This will be an 8,150 square foot building, of which approximately 4,000
            square feet will be occupied as a veterinary clinic. The remaining square
            feet will be left as shell space.
   B. Proposed Building Materials
         a. The building will be constructed in accordance with the material board
            below.




   C. Proposed CC&Rs
         a. CC&Rs include language on common area maintenance, access
            agreements between all future landowners in the development, future
            requirements for a manager of the development, and billing and payment
            requirements for any common area maintenance and services.
   D. Proposed amenities
         a. The building will be designed with the materials proposed above and will
            have upgraded facades on frontage-facing sides, creating a welcoming
            structure. The site will be landscaped in accordance with Lehi’s
            Development Code and will be lit in a manner that does not disturb
            adjacent parcels.
