                                  VALLEY VET CLINIC CONCEPT
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant        Jon Lee
                          Meeting Date         November 14, 2024
              Requested Action/Purpose         Review and approval of a concept plan with exceptions
                         Decision Type         Administrative
                               Location        3055 North 1200 West
                           Project Area        1.08 acres
                        Existing Zoning        Neighborhood Commercial
      General Plan Land Use Designation        Neighborhood Commercial
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North NC               Undeveloped
                                                  South TH-5/R-2         Single Family Homes
                                                   East RA-1             Single Family Homes
                                                   West R-3              Single Family Homes
                       Date of DRC Review      October 30, 2024
                         Assigned Planner      Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission       Public hearing, review, and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS
Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability.
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.

Section 05.020. Zoning Districts Purpose.
A.     The Neighborhood Commercial (NC) District is created to provide an area where goods and services are
available in close proximity or adjacent to residential areas. The purpose of this zone is to allow for the development of
smaller-scale retail and service-oriented businesses that are compatible with the adjacent neighborhoods. Developments
within this zone should be designed for a sensitive transition between the Neighborhood Commercial uses and
surrounding residential uses. In order to prevent disturbance to neighboring residential areas, businesses operating hours
shall be between the hours of 6 AM and 11 PM Sunday through Thursday and 6 AM to 12 AM Friday and Saturday.
Structures in this zone are limited in size to a 5,000 square foot footprint unless otherwise approved by the Planning
Commission based on a determination that the building meets the intent of this zone.

Section 37.010. General Nonresidential Design Standards.
i. Building entrances:

    1. Public entrances shall be developed on all new buildings to face the adjacent street (see Figure 123). Building
    entrances may be allowed on a side of the building closest to the street if an unobstructed sidewalk connection is
    provided from the building entrance to the street sidewalk.

    2.   Exceptions:

    Exceptions to Section 37.010 may be approved by the Planning Commission provided the following:
        a. The applicant shall provide evidence that the exception to the design standards improves the design quality,
           walkability/bike-ability, or ability conduct the proposed use on the subject property, as determined by the
           Planning Commission.




Valley Vet Clinic Concept Plan
         b. The applicant shall provide justification on how the proposed project fits in with the purpose and vision of
            the design standards district in which it is located.

  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Valley Vet Clinic Concept Plan located at 3055 North 1200 West in the
Neighborhood Commercial Zone. Site plans, and concept plans for site plans, are administrative items that are
approved by Staff unless the applicant requests and exception. This site plan requests an exception for a public
entrance facing the adjacent street.

Overview of Site
The concept plan shows a 4,655 square foot footprint for the building, which is below the maximum 5,000 square
foot footprint allowed in the Neighborhood Commercial zone. It also includes 65 parking stalls and 4 handicap stalls.
This exceeds the 29 required. The applicant indicated that the parking will also serve a future commercial building.
The tentative size and location of the future building was also shown on the concept plan.

The concept plan also shows the required buffer on the east and south side next to the residential uses.

The conceptual elevations also appear to meet the glass, material and articulation requirements. Full review will take
place with the site plan application.

Exception
The Planning Commission is considering whether to approve an exception to not have a public entrance onto 1200
West. The applicant requests this exception for safety of the animals. They do not want a direct line for dogs and cats
that run, that leads straight into a busy street. The Code allows exceptions if the requirements impact the ability to
conduct the proposed use on the property.

The DRC reviewed the proposed concept plan and had 25 comments. Many of these are informational for the site
plan.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a concept plan this is an administrative item. If it meets the Code it must be approved. The applicant asks for an
exception to the requirement for a public entrance onto 1200 West. The Planning Commission does have discretion
on whether to grant this exception or not.

This is a public hearing item. Comments focused on specific concerns with the proposed exception are the most
beneficial. The public should also be aware that the Planning Commission can only require those items listed in the
Development Code.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve or deny the proposed exception to the concept plan. Any motion should
include findings. Possible findings include:

    1. Denying the proposed exception will/will not impact the businesses functionality.
    2. Approving the proposed exception will/will not still allow the concept plan to comply with the intent of the
       General Nonresidential Design District.
    3. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
    4. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    5. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Valley Vet Clinic Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           October 30, 2024

                                                    Valley Vet Clinic Concept
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Jon Lee- requests review of the Valley Vet Clinic Concept Plan located at 3055 North 1200 West in the Neighborhood
Commercial Zone.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Jon Lee and Mallie Lanham
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/23/24
Time Start: 2:27pm
Time End: 2:51pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Provide, record, show, label 10’ PUE & RCE along 1200 West. No part of the building or other permanent structures
    are allowed in the PUE space.
2. Indicate preferred transformer location in conformance with NFPA & Lehi Power specifications. https://www.lehi-
    ut.gov/departments/power/specifications/
3. Indicate service location & main breaker size
4. Submit a completed Electrical Load Estimate sheet. https://www.lehi-ut.gov/wp-
    content/uploads/2020/04/LoadEstimatorSheet.pdf
Garion – Fire:
5. Provide an exterior door to fire riser room or install a Post Indicator Valve on the fire line.
6. Show planned location of your fire riser and building fire department connection.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
7. There is existing 1'' PI and 3/4 culinary service in existing lot.
8. There is an existing 8'' sewer main approximately 11' off of property line. There is an existing 20' sewer easement. No
    permanent structures will be allowed in Easement.
9. Utilities in 1200 west are 16''PI main, 10'' culinary main. 10'' sewer main, 36'' storm drain.
James – Parks:
10. Minimum 12' landscape buffer required on the East and South sides. Landscape buffer increases with buildings over
    20'.
11. Include landscaping and irrigation plan with site plan submittal.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
12. A soil report will be required if this moves past concept.
Shelbey – Public Works:
13. SWPPP will be required prior to precon
14. SSOMP/LTSWMP will be required prior to precon
15. At site plan, provide 80th percentile retention for stormwater
Gary E. – Engineering:
16. General DRC comment: At time of final site plan, provide storm drain calculations and show detention basin location.
Luke – Traffic:
17. Traffic Impact Study required with the site plan (lseegmiller@lehi-ut.gov)
Kim – Planning:
18. Cross access is required to be provided to the property to the north.
19. Fix the zoning in the land use table. The zone is Neighborhood Commercial
20. For Site Plan: Include bike parking in the parking tabulation and on the site plan with an inverted U. Short term
    requires 1 space per 5,000 sf of gross floor area and long term is 1 stall for each 5 employees.
21. At Site Plan: Include a breakdown of the materials, including the glass percentage.
22. Brick, stone, split face CMU, tilt-up concrete, architectural grade metal, fiber cement, and wood may be used for
    exterior materials.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           October 30, 2024

23. The facade facing the street frontage shall include large clear glass windows on the street level and smaller windows
    may be allowed on the upper floors. A minimum of 20 percent of the facade area on the first floor facing the street
    shall consist of glass.
24. Public entrances shall be developed on all new buildings to face the adjacent street. Building entrances may be allowed
    on a side of the building closest to the street if an unobstructed sidewalk connection is provided from the building
    entrance to the street sidewalk.
25. Planter islands in the parking lot are required to have a minimum 10' width.




DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).

THIS ITEM IS REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION FOR THE ENTRANCE ON THE STREET


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON NOVEMBER 14, 2024




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
