November 14, 2024

Via Email
Planning Department
City of Lehi
153 N 100 E
Lehi, Utah 84043

Re: Lehi Vet Clinic Concept Plan Exception


Dear Planning Commissioners and City Staff,

         My name is Mark Kellenberger and I am the Director of Development with 814 Development.
We are proposing to develop an 8,000 sq. ft. building for use as a veterinary clinic at the northeast
corner of Hardman Way and Redwood Road. We have been working with the developer and are excited
to get this project underway.
        We will develop the property with the 8,000 sq. ft. building and all associated site improvements
(parking, landscaping, utilities, etc.). The veterinary clinic will immediately occupy approximately half of
the building with the additional sq. ft. left for their future expansion.
        The approximate location of the building will be between 154 ft and 172 ft. from Redwood Road
and between 79 ft and 85 ft. from Hardman way. (The building and property lines are at angles and do
not run parallel to each other.)
         The reason we are requesting to locate the building further from the property lines than
provided in the design standards in the development code, is because there is an extreme grade from
both Hardman Way and Redwood Road to this property. At the proposed location, the building finish
floor elevation will sit approximately 28 ft below the intersection of Redwood Road and Hardman Way.
The slope in this area will be relatively steep and we are proposing a retaining wall to aid in the
development of the parking area that will be accessed from the drive from the overall development
(located to the east along Hardman Way) and to the adjacent future development to the north.
        We are also proposing this location to provide visibility for the building and our tenant’s
business resulting in a more aesthetic streetscape from the public streets. If we were to bring the
buildings forward it would be difficult to see the building and the dominant view would be of the
rooftop. This location would also provide the appropriate space to design the public utilities that will
serve this development.
       We are happy to answer any questions that the Commissioners may have and look forward to
moving forward with this project.


Thank you,


Mark Kellenberger
Director of Development
814 CRE, LLC


                  814 CRE LLC | 1695 Twelve Mile Road, Suite 100, Berkley, MI 48072
