         ATTAINABLE HOMEOWNERSHIP OVERLAY ZONE (AHOZ)
                            DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant        Lehi City
                           Meeting Date         November 14, 2024
                Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation on proposed amendments to the Lehi City
                                                Development Code
                            Decision Type       Legislative
                      Date of DRC Review        October 23, 2024

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                              City Council      Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General Plan.
In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and the City
Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties.
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


 APPLICABLE MODERATE INCOME HOUSING GOAL

Goal 6 Demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the housing needs of resi-
dents of the county/municipality who earn less than 80% of the area median income, including the dedication
of a local funding source to moderate income housing or the adoption of a land use ordinance that requires
10% or more of new residential development in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate income housing

         Strategy 1: Work with the development community to create a proposal to amend the Development Code
         to create an affordable housing overlay zone
               Create a draft for an attainable housing overlay zone that allows a Development Agreement be-
                  tween the City and the Developer
               Work with the Planning Commission and City Council to get it approved




Attainable Homeownership Overlay Zone
  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS

STRONG COMMUNITIES Establish strong communities where residents have opportunities for meaningful social con-
nections and support systems.
Strategy 1 Create a life-cycle housing policy that encourages a diversity of housing types in Lehi’s neighborhoods to
provide housing options for prospective residents of differing ages, incomes, abilities, and lifestyles.

RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT Accommodate a range of housing and neighborhood types suitable for a variety of
lifestyles, ages, affordability levels, and design options.
Strategy 2 Create inclusionary zoning programs that promote additional affordable housing units.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

Lehi City requests review and recommendation of the proposed Attainable Homeownership Overlay Zone (AHOZ)
Development Code Amendment. This proposal will create a process for developers, landowners, nonprofits, and other
interested parties, to gain the density they need to provide for sale units at a lower price than the market currently
provides.

Background
The housing affordability crisis has worsened in recent years, driven by a sharp increase in home prices and high
interest rates. This has made homeownership unaffordable for an increasing number of people According to Redfin,
the median sale price in Utah is $549,600, requiring an income between $135,000 and $180,000 to afford the home.
This growing affordability gap has serious consequences for many Utahns who can no longer afford a home.

The proposed Development Code Amendment aims to address this issue by creating "attainable" housing—homes
that are affordable for first-time buyers, but not necessarily below the Area Median Income (AMI) threshold. Unlike
traditional affordable housing, which typically requires government subsidies, AHOZ utilizes additional density to
lower development costs creating homes that will be sold below the current market value. This approach provides a
sustainable and replicable solution for homebuyers, developers, and Lehi City by providing attainable housing, profit
for the developers, and not requiring on going subsidies from the City while also increasing the overall property tax
base.

Proposed Ordinance Details
The proposed code outlines the steps and requirements for a developer to get an Attainable Housing Overlay Zone
(AHOZ) approved. Each AHOZ request will include a Development Agreement which allows flexibility in density,
lot and home size, and exceptions based on each unique property. In every case, it requires a sales price at least 20
percent below the market value of comparable homes and lots. However, the proposal also includes enough flexibility
that it could lead to units that actually reach affordability levels at or below 80 percent of the Area Median Income.

The economics behind AHOZ comes from a developer buying a piece of land at fair market value based on the existing
zoning. The developer then requests additional density from the City and guarantee (through the recorded Develop-
ment Agreement) that the homes will be sold at 20 percent below the sales price of similar properties. Development
Agreements are legal documents will full legal recourse if the contract is broken. Existing landowners, nonprofits, and
other organizations could also apply for this overlay zone if they wish.

The proposed overlay zone also has measures in place to encourage homeownership and discourage cooperate own-
ership. This is done through a restrictive deed that lasts for ten years on the property. The deed requires a few things.
One is for it to be owner occupied for the full ten years. It does allow the property to be rented for a year if the owner
has a hardship. Hardship is defined in the proposed Code and includes things like loss of employment, divorce, and
other similar life events. Additionally, the resale equity capture is capped for the first five years the house is built.
You can only sell it and realize an extra 20 percent of the market value per year. Again, this element seeks to create
economic incentives for people to buy the home and stay. Not to buy the home as a short-term investment.




Attainable Homeownership Overlay Zone
Enforcement of the restrictive deed with be outlined in the Development Agreement for each project. The enforcement
agency could be the City, HOAs, or the developer, depending on the specifics of each AHOZ development. After ten
years the restrictive deed will expire on the property, giving homeowners normal unrestricted property rights.

Approving a Development Agreement for the AHOZ zone to apply to a property will include a public hearing and be
a totally discretionary action by the City Council. The control and protection remain in the City’s hands, and the
greater amount of risk on the developer. Given the potential risk for developers, City Staff anticipates that only
developers and organizations committed to housing affordability will apply for this overlay zone.

DRC Comments
The DRC reviewed the proposed Development Code Amendment a few times, and all the comments have been ad-
dressed in the updated draft included in the Planning Commission packet.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Development Code amendments are a fully discretionary item. This means that the public can recommend any changes
and the Planning Commission can include in their motion any updates or changes they would like to see. As legislative
items the City Council has the final say on if it gets approved or not and if any changes are required.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendments to the Lehi City
Development Code. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed Development Code Amendment will meet one of the City’s Moderate Income Housing Goals.
    2.   The proposed Development Code Amendment will/will not help provide attainable housing and starter homes
         within Lehi City.
    3.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provi-
         sions of the General Plan and its various elements.
    4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Attainable Homeownership Overlay Zone
