                              GORDON FLAG LOT ZONE CHANGE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        Kevin and Sarah Gordon
                                  Meeting Date         December 12, 2024
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                       change
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          860 N 2300 W
                                      Acreage          1.63 acres
                              Existing Zoning          A-1
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          NC
                 Proposed Zoning Designation           NC & R-1-22
                            Existing Land Use          RV Storage (Code Enforcement Issue)
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North R-1-22                Grange Acres
                                                        South R-1-22               Cloverleaf Fields
                                                         East A-1                  Ascent Academy School
                                                         West A-1                  Single Family Residential
                              Date of DRC Review       December 4, 2024
                                Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should
consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


 APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES




Gordon Flag Lot Zone Change
  PROPERTY HISTORY

December 11, 1978 – This property was annexed into the City with the Lehi Meadows Addition.

April 21, 2022 - a general plan amendment was approved changing the General Plan designation to Neighborhood
Commercial (NC) with intentions of building a childcare center.

March 26, 2024 - a zone change was approved for this property was approved to Neighborhood Commercial, but it
was not finalized with water dedication and recording.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from A-1 (Agriculture) to NC
(Neighborhood Commercial) and R-1-22 on 1.63 acres located at approximately 860 N 2300 W. This will be a future
flag lot with just over half an acre as R-1-22 and the front one-acre lot as NC.

As per a previous development agreement with Lehi City, a zone change to NC was required and a stipulation was
put in place that the NC zoning will only allow for a childcare center on the property. The proposed zone change is
consistent with the General Plan designation of Neighborhood Commercial for the property.

After the previous zone change request was approved, the applicant approached staff to ask about the possibility of
doing a flag lot. The Zoning Administrator felt comfortable with a broad brush approach view of the General Plan to




Gordon Flag Lot Zone Change
consider this for R-1-22 because of the previous history of this property being VLDRA.

The DRC reviewed the proposed Zone Change and had three redline comments pertaining to water dedication, need-
ing a legal description, and one comment relating to Code Enforcement compliance. The property has been used for
RV storage which is not allowed in the NC zone. The DRC comments are as follows:

1.    Property needs to be brought into compliance before recording the zone change.
2.    As a condition of recording the zone change ordinance, water dedication will be required. The amount of water for
      the NC Zone is 1.35 acre feet per acre of culinary water and 1.25 acre feet per acre of irrigation water. The amount
      of water for the R-1-22 Zone is 0.79 acre feet per acre of culinary water and 2.90 acre feet per acre of irrigation wa-
      ter.
3.    Need separate legal descriptions for each part of the zone change.

Please consider DRC comments in the motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes that follow the General Plan must be approved unless there is significant evidence that doing so will
have a negative impact on the health, safety, or welfare of residents.

This is a public hearing item, meaning the public can speak on this item. Comments should focus on negative impacts
that could take place with the zone change.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
      2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
      3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
           properties;
      4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
           by the General Plan;
      5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
           uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
      6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Gordon Flag Lot Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          December 4, 2024

                                                Gordon Residential Zone Change
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Kevin & Sarah Gordon- requests review of the Gordon zone change on 1.63 acres located at 860 North 2300 West
changing the zoning from A-1 to NC and R-1-22.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Sarah Gordon
Date of Plans Reviewed: 11/19/24
Time Start: 1:58 pm
Time End: 2:00 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S.– Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey– Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Property needs to be brought into compliance before recording the zone change.
2. As a condition of recording the zone change ordinance, water dedication will be required. The amount of water for the
    NC Zone is 1.35 acre feet per acre of culinary water and 1.25 acre feet per acre of irrigation water. The amount of
    water for the R-1-22 Zone is 0.79 acre feet per acre of culinary water and 2.90 acre feet per acre of irrigation water.
3. Need separate legal descriptions for each part of the zone change.


THIS ITEM IS SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON DECEMBER 12, 2024.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
