                      HARDMAN CROSSING PLAT AMENDMENT
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Gardner Company
                         Meeting Date         December 12, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose         Approval of a proposed plat amendment
                              Location        Redwood Road and Hardman Way
     Existing General Plan Designation        Commercial
                       Existing Zoning        Commercial
                    Existing Land Use         Vacant
                 Number of Lots/Units         2
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North Commercial              Vacant
                                                South Saratoga Springs        Vacant
                                                  East Commercial             Vacant
                                                 West Heavy Commercial Fitness gym
                     Date of DRC Review       November 13, 2024
                       Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.340. Vacating, Altering, or Amending a Recorded Subdivision Plat. (Amended 01/23/24)

A. The Planning Commission, following review by the Reviewing Departments, shall be the Land Use Authority
for approving any proposed vacation, alteration, or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision
plat, or any road or lot contained in a subdivision plat. The Planning Commission shall follow all requirements and
procedures identified in Utah State Code Section 10-9a-608.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

October 26, 2016                     Property recorded as part of the Hardman Lehi Subdivision Plat A.

March 26, 2019                       Property recorded with the Gardner Plumb Development Agreement.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval of the Hardman Crossing Plat Amendment. The proposed plat amendment
would amend the Hardman Lehi Subdivision Plat A to create two lots out of Lot 2 on the existing plat (lots 202 and
203), and rename Lot 1 to Lot 201. The proposed amendment would also add an access easement on lot 203 to
provide internal access to lots 201 and 202. The proposed parcels of lot 202 and 203 are 1.25 acres and 1.5 acres,
respectively. The proposed parcels also meet the minimum frontage requirements of 60 feet, as lot 202 has a frontage
of 224 feet, and lot 203 has a frontage of 256 feet. This plat amendment is being requested to facilitate the construc-
tion of future commercial uses along Hardman Way.

The property is directly adjacent to the Utah Lake Distributing Canal, which has easements for the Utah Lake Dis-
tributing Canal, the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District, and the United States. A trail will be required to be
built as part of the Lehi Bike and Pedestrian Master Plan. Lehi City will coordinate with the canal company to apply
for a permit to have the trail run through these easements.

This proposed plat amendment meets the requirements of the Gardner Plumb Development Agreement as the de-
velopment agreement mainly focused on the number of ERU’s that this area would receive and had no restrictions
on amendment existing subdivision plats.

DRC Comments
There were eight comments from the DRC, including:
1. Lehi City will submit to canal company for trail permit in easement.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed plat amendment. Any motion should include
findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed subdivision meets/does not meet the requirements of the Development Code.
    2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public meeting.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         November 13, 2024

                                              Hardman Crossing Plat Amendment
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Gardner Group- requests review of the Hardman Crossing Plat Amendment on 2.82 acres located at approximately
Redwood Road and Hardman Way.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Howard, Jared
Date of Plans Reviewed: 11/05/24
Time Start: 2:50 PM
Time End: 2:50 PM


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Provide easement to provide power to lots 202 and 203 consistent with the loop feed concept plan. Adjust easement
    width at Hardman and Redwood to 10’ behind walk.
2. Provide truck access to existing switches along Redwood Road.
Garion – Fire:
3. Show temporary turnaround.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering:
4. ADA ramps per Lehi Detail RD-06 and RD-19 (PP-1)
5. Include Lehi Detail RD-19
6. Show road grade slopes - Typ (PP-1)
7. Show curb grade at crossings (5% max slope) (PP-1)
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
8. Lehi City will submit to canal company for trail permit in easement. Prior to precon.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEUDLED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON DECEMBER 12TH.


ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
2. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
   improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
3. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
   supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
   necessary supplies for the development.
4. Lehi City will submit to canal company for trail permit in easement. Prior to precon.
5. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
6. New property line adjacent to existing roads and any new trails must be staked and reviewed by the City.
7. Irrigation Company signature on the construction drawings for the irrigation piping.
8. Provide a recordable easement document for all necessary off-site easements (temp. turnarounds, utilities, power, etc).



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         November 13, 2024

9.  Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
    Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com). More information available at https://www.lehi-
    ut.gov/departments/water/storm-water/
10. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
11. Stormwater UIC permit will be required for stormtech system prior to precon.
12. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
    Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
    agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
13. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
14. Assign addresses.
15. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Submit a title report to the planner over the project for review.
4. Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
   property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.
5. Provide a signed original copy of the CC&Rs to record with the plat (to be reviewed by City Attorney).
6. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
    on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
    the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
    off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
    made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
    sheet.
5. If the subject property is subject to the Gardner-Plumb agreement with Lehi City, the conditions of that agreement apply
    here.
6. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
    and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
7. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
8. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
    being granted.
9. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
    by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
10. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
    be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
    provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
    loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
    construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
