                               PF REZONE 2024 ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant         Lehi City
                                Meeting Date          December 12, 2024
                     Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                      change
                              Decision Type           Legislative
                                   Location           Citywide (See map)
                                    Acreage           Approximately 95 acres
                            Existing Zoning           Multiple
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           Various
               Proposed Zoning Designation            PF (Public Facility)
                          Existing Land Use           Various (Open Spaces)
                        Date of DRC Review            November 6, 2024
                           Assigned Planner           Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                  City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.

Section 05.020. Zoning Districts Purpose.
Z. The Public Facilities (PF) District is established to provide areas for publicly owned buildings and facilities.

    1. Lehi City recognizes that, in attempting to serve the general public, there are unique needs that are diffi-
    cult to address through standard residential or commercial zoning regulations. Therefore, the intent of this
    zone is to create a balance between the needs of the City and other governmental or public entities and the in-
    terests of adjacent property owners, who should be aware of the potential use of neighboring publicly owned
    lands and have assurance of continued public use.

    2. Some uses in the PF District will be allowed in other zones to initially accommodate public facilities in
    appropriate areas without undue difficulty; however it is intended that the PF District would then be applied by



PF Rezone 2024 Zone Change
    the City to all such facilities for ease of recognition on the Lehi City Planning Zone Map and accurate statisti-
    cal indexing of land uses.

    3. The establishment of a PF District may only be initiated by Lehi City; however, changes from a PF Dis-
    trict to another district may be initiated by any party.

    4. When a property in the PF zone changes from one land use to another (as defined in the Table of Uses for
    the PF zone), Lehi City will hold a public hearing and send a notice to all property owners whose holdings are
    located partly or entirely within three hundred feet of the PF-zoned property.

    5.   Uses typical to the PF District may include:
         (a) Public parks, playgrounds, swimming pools, trails and similar public recreation facilities.
         (b) Public schools.
         (c) Public cemeteries.
         (d) Public buildings such as administrative buildings, libraries, courthouse, museums, public safety build-
         ings, and similar structures.
         (e) Municipal reservoirs, well sites, pump stations, maintenance shops, storage areas and similar public
         utility buildings and structures.
         (f) Municipal parking lots and parking areas to serve a public use.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

Lehi City seeks review and recommendation of a proposed zone change to Public Facilities for multiple public proper-
ties within the city. These properties include trails, open spaces, Family Park, and others; a full map and list are availa-
ble in the Planning Commission packet. This is part of a series of rezones to change all publicly owned property in the
City to the Public Facility zone.

Staff proposes this zone change to ensure the long-term public use of these properties. Every listed property is currently
a zone other than PF. Staff feels that rezoning these properties to PF adds another layer of protection to their public use.
The PF zone also helps public properties to be easily identified on the Zoning map.

During DRC Staff recognized that a portion of Family Park was still designated as VLDR on the General Plan. Because
it is a city-owned property, a general plan amendment and zone change can be submitted concurrently for this property.

DRC had three redline comments that were updated prior to the Planning Commission meeting. As a note, this includ-
ed:
    1. Submit a GP amendment for the LDR portions of Family Park.

Please consider all DRC Comments in your motion.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses




PF Rezone 2024 Zone Change
        for nearby and adjoining properties;
   6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




PF Rezone 2024 Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          November 6, 2024

                                                        PF Rezone 2024
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Lehi City- requests review of the 2024 Public Facility Rezone update for various properties.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: N/A
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/25/24
Time Start: 1:02 pm
Time End: 1:06 pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
1. Add approximate address to all plat numbers.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
2. Submit a GP amendment for the LDR portions of Family Park.
3. Show all parcels highlighted in blue for any maps that have multiple parcels.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON DECEMBER 12, 2024.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
