   BOULDER LANDSCAPING VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT STORAGE
                   CONDITIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Boulder Landscaping
                         Meeting Date         December 12, 2024
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use and site plan
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        4651 N Digital Drive
                       Existing Zoning        Light Industrial
              General Plan Designation        Commercial
                    Existing Land Use         Trailer Storage
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use           North TH-5                       Undeveloped
                                                 South LI                        Other Transwest Uses
                                                  East TH-5                      Undeveloped
                                                  West Light Industrial          Other Transwest Uses
                     Date of DRC Review       November 6, 2024
                       Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval
                           City Council       No action required


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.

                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest

Section 12.130 Supplementary Requirements for Mixed-Use, Nonresidential, and Special Districts.

Storage
    1. Storage or parking of recreational vehicles, boats, trailers, and other similar outside storage shall not be per-
    mitted within 20 feet of any property line on the periphery of the development. Such storage shall be covered
    and shall be screened by masonry fencing or other storage buildings on site such that the outside storage items
    are not directly viewed from any public street or from I-15. This provision shall not be interpreted to permit the
    storage of partially dismantled, wrecked, or inoperable vehicles.



     PROPERTY HISTORY
March 25, 1996              Property came into the City as part of the Transwest Annexation

     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of vehicle and equipment storage located at 4651 North Digital Drive in a light in-
dustrial zone. This area was previously used by Trailer Source for trailer storage.

A sketch plan was provided by the applicant, outlining the designated area for vehicle storage, along with the stone
fence that encloses the space. The property line extends slightly beyond the fence, ensuring the required buffer as
outlined in the Code.

The applicant has stated that the area will be used to store company trucks and equipment overnight. Employees will
park their personal vehicles in designated spots after retrieving the company vehicles. No additional guest parking or
office space will be required

The DRC reviewed the proposed vehicle storage conditional use and had three redline comments including:
    1. Install bollards for vehicle impact protection.
    2. Indicate on your plan where the existing masonry fence is located.
    3. Indicate property line to verify no vehicles will be parked within 20 feet of the property line per Sec-
       tion12.130.A.4.

Please include all DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL
Conditional uses allow for public comment. The comments should focus on the impact of the conditional use of vehicle
storage and any conditions that could help mitigate against potential negative impact to surrounding properties.

The Planning Commission may at their discretion, require reasonable conditions.

     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS
The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed conditional use and site plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
2.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
3.    That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size


                                                                                                                       2
     and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
     be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                       3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         November 6, 2024

                                             Boulder Landscaping Conditional Use
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Boulder Landscaping- requests review of a conditional use for Boulder Landscaping, a vehicle and equipment storage area
located at 4651 North Digital Drive in a Light Industrial zone.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Ray Dix
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/29/24
Time Start: 1:52pm
Time End: 2:02pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire:
1. Install bollards for vehicle impact protection.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
Lehi City has a existing 48'' storm drain with 20 ' easement. 11' off of property line. no parking will be allowed over
Manhole structures.
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
2. Indicate on your plan where the existing masonry fence is located.
3. Indicate property line to verify no vehicles will be parked within 20 feet of the property line per Section12.130.A.4.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON DECEMBER 12, 2024




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
