       CURB CART CONCRETE CONDITIONAL USE AND SITE PLAN
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Jeff Olsen
                         Meeting Date         January 9th, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use and site plan
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        1709 North Boston Street
                          Project Area        0.54
                       Existing Zoning        Light Industrial (LI)
              General Plan Designation        Light Industrial (LI)
                    Existing Land Use         Vacant
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North TH-5                      Future Sunbelt Rentals
                                                 South Light Industrial          Vacant
                                                   East Light Industrial         Caliber Collision
                                                  West Saratoga Springs          Residential
                     Date of DRC Review       December 18, 2024
                       Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.




                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest.


Section 37.010. Nonresidential Design Standards

    7.   General Nonresidential Design Standards:

             i.   Setbacks:
                  1. Buildings shall provide a sufficient setback to allow for a public utility easement to be placed
                      along the frontage of the property. Public utility easements may be placed along the back side
                      of a proposed building as approved by the Reviewing Departments. No permanent structures
                      shall be allowed within the public utility easement. Additional setbacks from public utility
                      easements may be required by the Reviewing Departments to ensure proper clearances are
                      met from building footings to utility lines.

                  2. A maximum setback of 50 feet shall be allowed from a building to a city street for all uses
                       unless otherwise allowed in Section 37.010.B.5.c.2 and Section 37.010.B.5.c.3.

                  3. The maximum setback may be increased to accommodate existing mainline utilities, grade
                       changes over 20 percent, existing buildings, or other hardship that is not self-imposed to the
                       property.

                  4. A minimum setback of 30 feet shall be required from a building, necessary drive aisles for
                       loading docks, and drive-thrus to the property line of the 2100 North, Pioneer Crossing, I-15,
                       and SR-92 corridors.

    8.   Exceptions:

    Exceptions to Section 37.010 may be approved by the Planning Commission provided the following:

         a. The applicant shall provide evidence that the exception to the design standards improves the design
            quality, walkability/bike-ability, or ability conduct the proposed use on the subject property, as deter-
            mined by the Planning Commission.

         b. The applicant shall provide justification on how the proposed project fits in with the purpose and vision
            of the design standards district in which it is located.


  PROPERTY HISTORY
August 29, 2024            Property was recorded as part of the Skyline subdivision.

  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting conditional use approval for Curb Cart Concrete, a small-scale concrete manufacturing
business, located at 1709 North Boston Street. Concrete manufacturing is a conditional use in the Light Industrial
zone. The Planning Commission may place reasonable restrictions on the property to mitigate against any potential
negative impacts of the business. This report will go over the layout of the site, the exception being requested, and the
DRC comments.

Site Layout
The proposed site plan spans lots 1 and 2 of the Skyline subdivision. There is a shared driveway between the two lots
to align with the 1700 North intersection. There is also a road stub to the north for future shared access between lot 1
of the Skyline subdivision and the property to the north.
The site itself has a 400 square foot office building. There will be paved parking between the building in the street.

                                                                                                                        2
Parking can be between the building and the street for industrial uses such as manufacturing, according to Chapter 37
of the Development Code. The rest of the project will be gravel. The Development Code only requires the area that is
being used for customer parking to be paved. Therefore, having the majority of the site be gravel is allowed by Code.

The applicant submitted an image of the building that will be used for the office building. While it appears it will meet
the Chapter 37 design standards, Staff has requested all four sides of the building be shown, and to provide the per-
centages of the material types to ensure the design standards are met. The applicant is aware of this and will provide
the elevations prior to issuing a building permit.

Exception
The applicant is requesting an exception to the Development Code. In Chapter 37, the Development Code requires
that the building must not be setback further than 50-feet from the public street. The building currently sits approxi-
mately 90-feet back from the public street. This is due in part because of the parking between the building and the
street, and a retention area for stormwater. The Planning Commission has the discretion to approve or deny the ex-
ception. Staff is comfortable with the exception because necessity of the retention pond.

DRC Comments
There were 10 redline comments from the DRC, including:
1. Provide building elevations for the office. The elevations will need to meet the General Nonresidential architec-
    tural requirements of Chapter 37, including wall variations and exterior materials.
2. The maximum setback from the building to the street shall not exceed 50 feet. This will require an exception from
    the Planning Commission.
3. On the site, note the asphalt material type in the customer parking area.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional uses are considered administrative items. The Planning Commission may place reasonable restrictions on
the use of the property to mitigate against any potential negative impacts to surrounding properties. Such restrictions
could include lighting, hours of operation, dust management, or other conditions.

This is a public hearing item. The public can provide suggestions to the Planning Commission to reduce any potential
negative impacts. Conditional uses are allowed uses and cannot be denied unless there is a significant threat to the
overall health, safety, and welfare of surrounding properties.

The Planning Commission also has the discretion to approve or deny the requested exception.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed conditional use and site plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
2.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
3.    That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
      and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
      be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
4.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                        3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                        December 18, 2024

                                                      Curb Cart Concrete
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Jeff Olsen- requests review of the Curb Cart Concrete Site Plan located at 1709 North Boston Street.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Jeff Olson, Tony Trane
Date of Plans Reviewed: 12/10/24
Time Start: 2:05 PM
Time End: 2:20 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Provide power load sheet for the project (3-phase 208).
2. See utility plan for power infrastructure.
Garion – Fire: No Comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
3. Franson Engineering review and approval will be required to ensure there is no conflict with the ULDC canal company
    requirements shown on Skyline Properties commercial subdivision plat.
4. will require 3/4 RPZ with heated enclosure – add as a keynote
James – Parks:
5. Need to provide a landscaping and irrigation plan.
Arnie/Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering:
6. Provide the retention basin dimensions and elevations for construction
7. Add note to drawing: After construction, detention and retention
    facilities may not be altered or removed without authorization of the City Engineer and the
    City Council.
Luke – Traffic:
Kim – Planning:
8. Provide building elevations for the office. The elevations will need to meet the General Nonresidential architectural
    requirements of Chapter 37 of the Development Code including wall variations and exterior materials.
               a. Need to include percentages of the building materials used. Also need to see all sides of the building, not
                  just one.
9. Max setback from the building to street shall not exceed 50 feet. Need to apply for an exception from the Planning
    Commission.
10. On the site plan, note the asphalt material type in the customer parking area.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAILGATE, NONE)

ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
2. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
   must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
3. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
   process.
4. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
5. New property line adjacent to existing roads must be staked and reviewed by the City.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                        December 18, 2024

6.  Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
    Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com). More information available at https://www.lehi-
    ut.gov/departments/water/storm-water/
7. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
8. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
    Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
    agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
STAFF
9. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
10. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
11. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSIN ON JANUARY 9TH.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
