              WILLOW PARK CHURCH PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant       Uncommon Architecture
                          Meeting Date        January 9, 2025
               Requested Action/Purpose       Public hearing, review, and approval for a proposed preliminary subdi-
                                              vision
                           Decision Type      Administrative
                                Location      Approximately 1500 North 2700 West
       Existing General Plan Designation      Very-Low Density Residential Agriculture (VLDRA)
                         Existing Zoning      R-1-22
                      Existing Land Use       Vacant
                   Number of Lots/Units       6
          Adjacent Zoning and Land Use           North A-1                 Single-family residential, agriculture
                                                 South R-1-22              College Farms PRD
                                                  East R-1-22              Spring Ranch single-family subdivision
                                                  West TH-5                Agriculture
                      Date of DRC Review      December 18, 2024
                        Assigned Planner      Katie Bussell

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission       Final Approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code, in-
cluding review by the Reviewing Departments, and review and approval by the Planning Commission following a
public hearing.

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has
been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.



  PROPERTY HISTORY

November 21, 2024          The Willow Park Church zone change, changing the zoning from TH-5 to R-1-22, was
                           recorded.

August 21, 2024            The site plan for the Willow Park Church was approved by the DRC.

January 25, 2024           The Planning Commission approved the concept plan for the Willow Park Church, deny-
                           ing the exception to not have the building oriented to the corner.

  REPORT ANALYSIS



Willow Park Church Preliminary Subdivision
The applicant is requesting approval of the Willow Park Church subdivision, a six-lot residential and non-residential
subdivision located at approximately 1500 North 2700 West. This subdivision is to facilitate the construction of a
future LDS stake center and meetinghouse. There will be four future residential lots as well. A final subdivision
application was submitted concurrently with the preliminary application, but only for lots 1 and 2. This report will
discuss the layout of the subdivision and the DRC comments.

Layout
The subdivision will have six lots. Two will be for the construction of a meetinghouse and stake center, and the other
four will be residential. All lots meet the requirements of the zone. The R-1-22 zone has a minimum lot size require-
ment of 22,000 square feet, which all units meet. There must also be 100-feet of frontage, and all lots have 100-feet
of frontage as well. There will also be a future road that will connect 2550 West and 1400 North to 1500 North. This
road is required according to Lehi City’s connectivity standards.

DRC Comments
There were 9 redline comments from the DRC, including:
1. Indicate this is a preliminary plat in the title block.
2. Include a note that lots 3 and 4 cannot have access to 1500 N.
3. Include tabulation of acres, lots, and units per acre.

Please include all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Subdivisions are administrative items. If they meet the Code requirements they must be approved.

This item requires a public hearing. The public may comment on this item. The public may want to bring up concerns
or items the Planning Commission may not be aware of.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed preliminary subdivision. Any motion should
include findings. Possible findings include:


    1.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
         gards to subdivision approvals.
    2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Willow Park Church Preliminary Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         December 18, 2024

                                        Willow Park Church Preliminary Subdivision
                                                 DRC Redline Comments

Uncommon Architecture- requests preliminary and final subdivision review of the Willow Park Church Subdivision, a
residential and non-residential subdivision on 10.92 acres located at approximately 1500 North 2700 West. Need
envelopes

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 12/10/24
Time Start: 1:00 PM
Time End: 1:15 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Remove side, rear, and internal easements as shown on Bluebeam
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E.– Engineering:
2. In note 3, change “2009 Lehi City Standards and Specifications” to 2024
3. Label as PU&RCE (typ on plat)
4. C4-C7 missing from table
Luke - Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
5. Indicate this is a preliminary plat in the title block
6. Remove #1 from the title of this subdivision
7. Recommend simplifying or removing the owner information. It is not needed on the plat.
8. Include a note that lots 3 and 4 cannot have access to 1500 N
9. Include tabulation of acres, lots, and units per acre



DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. If the subject property is subject to the Gardner-Plumb agreement with Lehi City, the conditions of that agreement apply
   here.
6. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
7. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
8. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         December 18, 2024

9.  The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
    by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
10. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
    be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
    provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
    loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
    construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JANUARY 9TH. (NEED ENVELOPES
BEFORE SCHEDULING IF PRELIMINARY)

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
