                                    CARDENAS ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant         Nelly Cardenas
                                Meeting Date          January 9, 2025
                     Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                      change
                              Decision Type           Legislative
                                   Location           610 East State Street
                                    Acreage           0.16 acres
                            Existing Zoning           R-2
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           C (Commercial)
               Proposed Zoning Designation            C
                          Existing Land Use           Single family residential
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North MU                  State Street
                                                       South MU                 Harding Shops
                                                        East MU                 Dollar Tree
                                                        West R-2                Single family residential
                            Date of DRC Review        December 11, 2024
                              Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                  City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES




Cardenas Zone Change
  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872- This property was incorporated with the original boundaries of Lehi City.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from R-2 to Commercial on 0.16 acres
located at 610 East State Street. This will allow the property owner to explore future redevelopment opportunities. This
zone change request is in line with the City’s General Plan designation for the property. This change is consistent with
the surrounding area as well, which has a mix of residential and commercial uses.

There were two technical DRC comments on the proposed zone change that included the following:

    1.   Record a 15’ PUE&RCE along the State Street frontage
    2.   Recommend working on a boundary line agreement with neighbor to the west. (overlap in parcels)

Please consider the DRC comments in the motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes that follow the General Plan must be approved unless there is significant evidence that doing so will have
a negative impact on the health, safety, or welfare of residents.

This is a public hearing item, meaning the public can speak on this item. Comments should focus on negative impacts
that could take place with the zone change.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by




Cardenas Zone Change
        the General Plan;
   5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
        for nearby and adjoining properties;
   6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Cardenas Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         December 11, 2024

                                              Cardenas Residential Zone Change
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Nelly Cardenas- requests review of the Cardenas zone change on 0.16 acres located at 610 East State Street changing the
zoning from R-2 to Commercial.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: N/A
Date of Plans Reviewed: 11/26/24
Time Start: 1:10
Time End: 1:10

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Record a 15’ PUE&RCE along the State Street frontage
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S.– Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey– Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Kim – Planning:
2. Recommend working on a boundary line agreement with neighbor to the west. (overlap in parcels)


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JANUARY 9TH.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
December 12th, 2024
Dear Lehi City Planning and Zoning Department,
I am writing to formally request a zoning change for my property located at 610 E State Street,
Ut 84043. Currently the property is zoned as residential. The reason for this request is driven
mainly by the property location and the potential for economic growth. I believe that this change
will not only benefit the local economy but also enhance the neighborhood by providing positive
impacts such as job creation, increased property value, or improved infrastructure.
The zoning change also supports Lehi’s general plan by fostering balanced growth and
encouraging the efficient use of land in areas suitable for commercial development.
I am confident that this change will be a positive step for the property, the surrounding
neighborhood, and the city.
I kindly request an opportunity to discuss this matter further with the appropriate city officials.
Please let me know if there are additional documents or steps required to proceed with this
request.
Sincerely,
Yesika Cardenas




Current Zoning
