         EXCHANGE BUSINESS CENTER SITE PLAN WITH EXCEPTIONS
                                    PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                Applicant        Mint Architecture
                             Meeting Date        January 9th, 2025
                Requested Action/Purpose         Approval of a proposed site plan
                            Decision Type        Administrative
                                 Location        Approximately 1500 North 3600 West
                              Project Area       1.19 acres
                          Existing Zoning        Neighborhood Commercial (NC)
        General Plan Land Use Designation        Neighborhood Commercial (NC)
                        Existing Land Use        Vacant
           Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North Open Space            Detention area
                                                    South R-3                   Gardner Point Townhomes and condos
                                                     East Public Facility       Future high school
                                                     West R-3                   Gardner Point Townhomes and condos
                       Date of DRC Review        December 18th, 2024
                         Assigned Planner        Katie Bussell

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission         Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.260. Site Plan Approval Process.
Permitted Uses.
       1. Site plans associated with a permitted use require review an approval by the Reviewing Departments. Site
    Plans requesting exceptions to Code requirements require approval by the Planning Commission for the requested
    exceptions. The Reviewing Departments may require that the approval of a site plan be forwarded to the Planning
    Commission if they determine the standards in the Development Code are unclear, or that the project is likely to have
    extenuating or unforeseen impacts beyond what would normally be expected on issues such as traffic, lighting, or
    compatibility of uses.

Section 37.060. Parking Standards

   A. Purpose. The standards in this section are intended to create off-street parking areas for new development and
redevelopment projects that promote functionality, safety, and aesthetics.

   J.    Landscaping

             8.   The following minimum landscaped setback and separation shall be required for all surface parking lots,
                  unless otherwise approved by the Planning Commission:

                       a.   20 feet from public road rights-of-way; and

                       b.   ten feet from perimeter property lines.



  PROPERTY HISTORY

November 7, 2024            The property was zoned Neighborhood Commercial.




Exchange Business Center Site Plan
May 23rd, 2024             The concept plan with exceptions to allow parking between the building and the street
                           was approved by the Planning Commission.

October 26, 2021           The property was recorded as part of the Gardner Point Phase 1 Subdivision.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval of an exception to the Development Code for the Exchange Business Center
site plan. The Planning Commission is only responsible for considering the requested exception to the
Development Code, not the site plan in its entirety. The applicant is requesting an exception to the Chapter 37
Design Standards for parking. Specifically, the applicant would like to have less than a 20’ setback from the public
right-of-way to the parking lot. The applicant is requesting this exception to maximize the efficiency of their
parking and the use of their site. Staff is comfortable with this exception because the original code requirement was
to help create a more walkable environment and prevent having parking right up against a roadway. However, for
this site specifically, there is 10-feet of landscaping and a 10-foot asphalt trail between the parking area and the
roadway of 3600 West. Staff feels that the exception meets the intent of the code with the landscaping and the
asphalt trail here.

DRC Comments
There were five redline comments from the DRC, including:
1. Approval is required from the Planning Commission to have less than a 20’ setback from the public ROW with
    parking.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Site Plans are administrative items that must be approved if they meet the Development Code requirements. This site
plan requests an exception. The Planning Commission should determine if the intent of the Code is met and if these
exceptions should be granted. This is not a public hearing item.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed site plan. Any motion should include findings.
Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or
         improvements in the vicinity and will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, general welfare or
         convenience.
    2.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and
         policies of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
    3.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate
         size and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that
         it will not be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
    4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public meeting.




Exchange Business Center Site Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         December 18, 2024

                                                 The Exchange Business Center
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Mint Architecture- requests review of the Exchange Business Center Site Plan located at approximately 1500 North 3600
West.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Erik Graves,
Date of Plans Reviewed: 12/10/24
Time Start: 1:25 PM
Time End: 1:30 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Show power metering location and service size (main breaker size voltage and ampacity). Show on both site plan and
    utilities plan.
2. Provide Lehi power details for Transformer Pad, Metering, Trench.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
3. culinary water meter and PI meter will be installed with phase 1
James – Parks:
4. There was discussion about the existing trees in the park strip, the site was evaluated, please add trees as called out.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering:
Luke – Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
5. Approval is required from Planning Commission to have less than a 20' setback from the public ROW with parking.


PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAILGATE, NONE)

ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
    landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
    Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
    must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Reimbursement Agreement for any reimbursable improvement items must be in place.
5. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
    process.
6. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
7. New property line adjacent to existing roads must be staked and reviewed by the City.
8. Stormwater UIC permit will be required for underground detention facility prior to precon
9. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
    Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com). More information available at https://www.lehi-
    ut.gov/departments/water/storm-water/
10. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         December 18, 2024

11. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
    Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
    agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
12. Provide approval letter from the State (UDEQ) for Class V UIC Injection Well.
13. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
14. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
15. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
16. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.

THIS ITEM IS/IS NOT REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.
(An exception requires stamped addressed envelopes for public noticing if the project proceeds to Planning Commission)

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JANUARY 9TH.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
