                                 GARDEN PARK ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant         Adam Albrecht
                                Meeting Date          January 9, 2025
                     Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                      change
                              Decision Type           Legislative
                                   Location           Approximately 500 S Center Street
                                    Acreage           1.29 acres
                            Existing Zoning           A-1
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           LDR (Low Density Residential)
               Proposed Zoning Designation            R-1-Flex
                          Existing Land Use           Undeveloped
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North A-1                 Single family residential
                                                       South A-1                UTA Rail Corridor
                                                        East RA-1               Single family residential
                                                        West A-1                Single family residential
                            Date of DRC Review        December 18, 2024
                              Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                  City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.

Section 05.020. Zoning Districts Purpose.

E. The purpose of the Low Density Residential Districts (R-1-12, R-1-10, R-1-8, and R-1-Flex) is to provide for single-
family residential areas and dwelling units on individual lots.

    1.   The standard zones for the Low Density Residential District are the R-1-Flex zone and R-1-12.




Garden Park Zone Change
      F. 1. All developments within the R-1-Flex District that are less than ten gross acres in size shall meet the follow-
      ing requirements:

      (a) maximum density of three and one quarter (3.25) units per acre; and
      (b) minimum lot size of 8,000 square feet.


     APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (LDR)

The Low Density Residential (LDR) classification provides for predominantly single family residential areas and single
family dwelling units with an overall neighborhood density not to exceed 4 units per acre.


     PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872- This property was incorporated with the original boundaries of Lehi City.

November 18, 2021- The Planning Commission gave a positive recommendation to the Garden Park zone change at
the same location. The applicant did not move forward to City Council at that time.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from A-1 to R-1-Flex on 1.29 acres of
property located at approximately 500 South Center Street. The General Plan designation of LDR is consistent with the
requested zoning of R-1-Flex.

The rezone application will allow the applicant to build four single-family homes on the property.

The DRC reviewed the proposed zone change and had two redline comments.

1.    As a condition of recording the zone change ordinance and prior to submission of an application for preliminary
      subdivision, the owner needs to complete the required water dedication for the R-1-Flex Zone. The amount of culi-
      nary water is 1.58 acre feet per acre and irrigation water is 2.11 acre feet per acre.
2.    In the application and narrative, clarify that the current zoning is A-1, not RA-1.

Please consider the DRC comments in the motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes that follow the General Plan must be approved unless there is significant evidence that doing so will have
a negative impact on the health, safety or welfare of residents.

This is a public hearing item, meaning the public can speak on this item. However, the public should realize that the
zone change cannot be denied simply because they do not like the proposed development. Comments should focus on
negative impacts that would take place with the zone change.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS



Garden Park Zone Change
The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Garden Park Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         December 18, 2024

                                            Garden Park Residential Zone Change
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Adam Albrecht - requests review of the Garden Park Zone Change, changing the zoning on 1.29 acres from A-1 to R-1-
Flex.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Greg Allred, Matthew Meier, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Joshua
    Bunnell, Ross Dinsdale, Trent Dyer, Luke Seegmiller
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Adam Albrecht
Date of Plans Reviewed: 12/10/24
Time Start: 3:40 pm
Time End: 3:41 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Greg – Water/Sewer: No comments
Trent – Parks: No comments
Gary – Building/Inspections: No comments
JD – Streets: No comments
Ross – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. As a condition of recording the zone change ordinance and prior to submission of an application for preliminary
    subdivision, the owner needs to complete the required water dedication for the R-1-Flex Zone. The amount of culinary
    water is 1.58 acre feet per acre and irrigation water is 2.11 acre feet per acre.
2. In the application and narrative, clarify that the current zoning is A-1, not RA-1.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISION ON JANUARY 9, 2025




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
 Garden Park Concept & Zone Change Narrative

We are asking for a zone change from RA-1 to R-1-Flex. This
request is consistent with the current General Plan and the
recent zone changes that have taken place in the immediate
area.


This will be a four lot development with very little impact on
existing infrastructure. All utilities are currently adjacent to the
site.


We anticipate the homes will sell in the 800’s which will have
a positive effect on neighboring property values.


We hope that the staff, Planning Commission and City Council
will support our proposal.
