                                  HOLBROOK PLACE PHASE 12
                                  PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant       Ivory Homes
                          Meeting Date        January 9, 2025
               Requested Action/Purpose       Public hearing, review, and recommendation for a proposed preliminary
                                              subdivision
                           Decision Type      Administrative
                                Location      Approximately 3600 West Turpin Lane
       Existing General Plan Designation      Very Low Density Residential (VLDR)
                         Existing Zoning      PC
                      Existing Land Use       Vacant
                   Number of Lots/Units       14
          Adjacent Zoning and Land Use           North RC and RA-1              Thanksgiving Point Golf Course,
                                                                                vacant
                                                 South Planned Community Holbrook Farms Place Phase 10
                                                                                and 11
                                                  East Planned Community Holbrook Farms Plat A Phase 12
                                                  West R-1-8                    Single-family home
                      Date of DRC Review      November 20, 2024
                        Assigned Planner      Katie Bussell

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission       Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                            City Council      Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code, in-
cluding review by the Reviewing Departments, and review and approval by the Planning Commission following a
public hearing.

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has
been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.

Holbrook Farms Land Development Regulations and Development Code Variations
   • The approval process for Holbrook Farms Subdivision Plat approval will be as follows:
           o A Preliminary Plat application and fees will be filed along with a preliminary plat that follows the
              guidelines listed on the City Checklist with the exceptions listed above. There will be a 7 day
              noticing period for the public hearing at Planning Commission for recommendation. City Council
              will follow with no public comment for final preliminary approval.




Holbrook Place Phase 12 Preliminary Subdivision
Section 36-B.050. Permitted Uses.
The following uses are permitted within the Jordan River Overlay Zone:
    A. open space;

    B. parks and associated improvements;

    C. agricultural uses;

    D. golf courses;

    E. trails, both paved and unpaved;

    F.   accessory buildings incidental to a principal use with less than 750 gross square feet, unless otherwise ap-
         proved by Planning Commission and City Council;

    G. outdoor amphitheaters;

    H. public facilities, including utilities, detention and drainage facilities, and wells; and

    I.   other similar uses deemed appropriate within the river buffer as approved by the Zoning Administrator.

Section 36-B.060. River Buffer.

    A. The Jordan River Overlay Zone implements a river buffer as identified on the Lehi City General Plan Land
       Use Map. The final boundary of the river buffer will be determined on a case-by-case basis at the time of
       development based on existing site features.

    B. Single family homes shall not be located within the river buffer and no permanent buildings shall be placed
       within 50 feet of the top of the riverbank, with the exception of any flood control or river-related facilities.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

May 8, 2018                 The Turpin Zone Change and Turpin Holbrook Farms Area Plan Amendment was ap-
                            proved by the City Council.

November 10, 2016           The Holdbrook Farms Area Plan was approved by the City Council.

September 26, 2008          This property was annexed to Lehi City as part of the Holbrook Annexation.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests consideration of the Holbrook Place Phase 12 subdivision, a 14-lot single-family subdivision
located at approximately 3600 West Turpin Lane. These units are entitled to Ivory Homes under the Holbrook Farms
Area Plan. This report will discuss the area plan requirements, the overall layout of the subdivision, and the Jordan
River Overlay requirements.

Area Plan Requirements
This subdivision is part of the Holbrook Farms Area Plan. The property that the subdivision is on was added into the
Holbrook Farms Area Plan in 2018. It was determined the number of equivalent residential units (ERU’s) that would
be allowed on this property was between 9 to 24 ERU’s. As there are only 14 lots proposed in this subdivision, the
preliminary subdivision meets the area plan requirement for the ERU’s.




Holbrook Place Phase 12 Preliminary Subdivision
Layout
The overall layout of the subdivision meets all Development Code requirements, and requirements in the Holbrook
Farms Area Plan. The minimum lot size according to the Holbrook Farms Area Plan is 8,000 square feet, and these
lots are all over 16,000 square feet. They also all exceed the minimum frontage requirement of 50-feet.

Jordan River Overlay
Lots 1206, 1207 and 1208 appear to fall within the Jordan River Overlay Zone. The Jordan River Overlay Zone has
certain requirements to protect the integrity of the Jordan River from further degradation. One of the requirements of
the Jodan River Overlay Zone is that no permanent structures be placed within 50 feet of the top of the riverbank.
This would include homes and accessory structures. It does not appear any homes will be within this 50-foot buffer,
but Staff has asked the applicant to hatch the buffer on the final plat and add a note stating no permanent structures
can be placed within the hatched area. This will help future homeowners be aware they cannot place an accessory
structure within the 50-foot buffer.

DRC Comments
There were 9 comments from the DRC. Many of these were informational comments for the final plat. Some of note
include:
1. Show alignment of the trial continuing to the north property line. Add a note that the trail will be constructed
     after the temporary turnaround is removed.
2. Some of the lots appear to fall within the Jordan River Overlay Zone. No permanent structures shall be placed
     within 50' of the top of the riverbank. Add hatching on the plat where the 50' buffer ends, and a note that says
     there is no permanent structures allowed within the buffer.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Subdivisions are administrative items. If they meet the Code requirements they must be approved.

The public may comment on this item. The public may want to bring up concerns or items the Planning Commission
may not be aware of. The City Council has the final decision as to how this subdivision will be approved.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed preliminary subdivision.
Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
         gards to subdivision approvals.
    2.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Holbrook Farms Area Plan.
    3.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Holbrook Place Phase 12 Preliminary Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         November 20, 2024

                                                     Holbrook Place Phase 12
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Ivory- requests preliminary subdivision review of Holbrook Place Phase 12, a 14-lot single-family subdivision located at
approximately 3600 West Turpin Lane.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Ben
Date of Plans Reviewed: 11/12/24
Time Start: 2:45 PM
Time End: 3:15 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. General: must provide gate access to installed equipment prior to any conductor installation.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
2. End culinary main with permanent 4'' blow off and valve.
3. Show how you are going to get services for lot 1212, 1213
4. Show piping of irrigation ditch and storm drain behind lots with flared end section and rip rap.
5. Informational comments for final plat:
               a. Provide 20' easement in Favor for Lehi City. storm drain in USA parcel.
               b. 30' easement for sewer and storm drain in Favor of Lehi city.
               c. Provide 30' easement in favor of Lehi City In USA parcel for both water mains and storm drain.
Emma/James – Parks:
6. Is there a plan for the maintenance of this vacant parcel. Residents will likely call the city to complain that this stretch
is overgrown and unmaintained.
A. Informational comment for final plat:
          a. Add dedication of Parcel A to Lehi City onto the Plat (future park)
          b. Please provide landscape plan for park strip areas.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E.– Engineering: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
7. Use standard Lehi plat template, which includes a larger County Recorder box in the title block.
8. Show alignment of the trail continuing to the north property line. Add a note that the trail will be constructed after the
     temporary turnaround is removed.
9. Some of the lots appear to fall within the Jordan River Overlay Zone. No permanent structures shall be placed within
     50' of the top of the riverbank. Add hatching on the plat where the 50' buffer ends, and a note that says there is no
     permanent structures allowed within the buffer.
A. Informational comments for the final plat:
          a. Label what will be the front on corner lots on the plat.
          b. Label Street A as public.
          c. Indicate this is a residential subdivision on the plat in the title block.
          d. What would you like Street A to be called?


PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)

ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         November 20, 2024

1.  For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
    landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
    Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
    improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
    supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
    necessary supplies for the development.
5. Reimbursement Agreement for any reimbursable improvement items must be in place.
6. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
    process.
7. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
8. New property line adjacent to existing roads and any new trails must be staked and reviewed by the City.
9. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
10. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
    Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
    agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
STAFF
11. Address any comments or conditions from Planning Commission approval of the preliminary
12. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Submit a digital copy of the plat to the planner after receiving addresses but before printing the mylar.
2. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
3. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
4. Submit a title report to the planner over the project for review.
5. Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
   property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.
6. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
7. Provide a recorded copy of required boundary line agreement(s).
8. Provide a signed original copy of the CC&Rs to record with the plat (to be reviewed by City Attorney).
9. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         November 20, 2024

9.   Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
     be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
     provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
     loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
     construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEUDLED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JANUARY 9TH.

AREA PLAN REQUIRES PLANNING COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL FOR PRELIMINARY.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                3 of 3
        Memorandum
        To:     Lehi City

        CC:     Ivory Homes

        From:   Focus Engineering and Surveying

        Date:   11/13/2024
        Re:     Holbrook Place Phase 12 Preliminary Submittal



       The proposed development is approximately 15.54 acres located in Holbrook Place. We are
proposing a development of 14 single family lots. The proposed density for the Holbrook Place
Phase 12 is 0.9 units/acre

        The proposed home construction will meet the Holbrook Area Plan architectural design
requirements. The home construction will complement the existing developments in the Holbrook
Area Plan.




                                                                                                 1
