                                     MOTO UNITED SITE PLAN
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Colby Anderson
                          Meeting Date        January 9, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Approval of a proposed site plan with an exception request
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        450 South Millpond Drive
                       Existing Zoning        Commercial
     General Plan Land Use Designation        Commercial
                     Existing Land Use        Vacant
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North Heavy Commercial         Storage facility and fitness gym
                                                 South Mixed Use                Vacant
                                                  East Commercial               I-15 Freeway
                                                  West Heavy Commercial         Gymnastics gym and dance studio
                     Date of DRC Review       December 18, 2024
                       Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission       Final approval


     APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.260. Site Plan Approval Process.
Permitted Uses.
       1. Site plans associated with a permitted use require review an approval by the Reviewing Departments. Site
    Plans requesting exceptions to Code requirements require approval by the Planning Commission for the requested
    exceptions. The Reviewing Departments may require that the approval of a site plan be forwarded to the Planning
    Commission if they determine the standards in the Development Code are unclear, or that the project is likely to
    have extenuating or unforeseen impacts beyond what would normally be expected on issues such as traffic,
    lighting, or compatibility of uses.

Section 12.130. Supplementary Requirements for Mixed Use, Nonresidential, and Special Districts.
M. Retail Sales, General- Indoor Powersports and Marine Vehicle Sales.

1.    Display. Outdoor display pads for indoor powersports and marine vehicle sales shall be limited to two display pads
      per 100 linear feet of property frontage. Each pad shall be no larger than necessary to accommodate one vehicle in
      any directional orientation or limited to a maximum size of 400 square feet.

2. Liquid-fueled or gaseous-fueled vehicles, aircraft, boats, or other motor craft shall not be located indoors except as
follows:
         (a) The engine starting system is made inoperable or batteries are disconnected except where the fire code
         official requires that the batteries remain connected to maintain safety features.

          (b) Fuel in fuel tanks does not exceed one quarter tank or 5 gallons (19 L) (whichever is least). (c) Fuel tanks
          and fill openings are closed and sealed to prevent tampering.

Chapter 37- Mill Pond District Design Standards

vi. Building materials:
2. Brick, stone, architectural grade metal (see Figures 66 and 67), fiber cement, and wood may be used for exterior
     building materials.




Moto United Site Plan
3.    Stucco, split face CMU, and EIFS may be used up to 30 percent of each wall area excluding windows and doors as
      a secondary material only. Stucco and EIFS shall not be used on hierarchal architectural features, pop-outs in a
      facade, or for wainscots, but shall be allowed on recessed wall areas, walls between entrances, and between
      hierarchal architectural features (see Figure 68).

Chapter 39- Definitions

Retail Sales, General - An establishment primarily engaged in the sale or rental of commonly used goods and
merchandise for personal or household use, but excluding those classified more specifically in this section. Typical uses
include department stores, sporting goods stores, home furnishings, electronics and appliances, wallpaper, indoor
powersports and marine vehicle sales (See Section 12.130 (M)), carpeting and floor-covering, or automotive parts and
accessories excluding service and installation


     PROPERTY HISTORY

October 29, 1985           The City Council approved the Southeast No. 2 Addition.

March 31, 2020             The City Council approved the New Star Commercial Development Final Subdivision.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Moto United Site Plan located at 450 South Millpond Drive in a commercial
zone. The applicant previously worked on a Development Code amendment with the City to allow for indoor
powersports and marine vehicle sales to be considered as part of the retail sales, general use. That use is allowed in
the commercial zone. This 8.458-acre lot will include a two-story sales office for powersports and marine vehicles,
a service and repair shop, and warehouse space. Of the entire lot, 2.618 acres of the development will remain
undeveloped near Mill Pond and includes space for a future millpond city trail.

The proposed elevations for the building are required to meet the standards of the Millpond Design District. The
applicant’s building design complies with those requirements; however, they request an exception for the building
materials. The site plan currently shows the building to have tilt-up painted concrete with windows and some metal
paneling. An exception would be required to keep the building as tilt-up concrete for the primary material.

There were seventeen technical comments from the DRC, including:
  1. Reword the note on the future trail to clarify that the work will either be done by Lehi City or completed with
      future development of the property by the property owner with reimbursement by the City.
  2. The tree requirement is 40 trees per site acre. Add more trees to site to satisfy the tree requirement or request an
      exception to reduce the number of trees.
  3. An exception will be required by the Planning Commission in order to use concrete as the primary material.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Site Plans are administrative items that must be approved if they meet the Development Code requirements. This
site plan requests exceptions. The Planning Commission should determine if the intent of the Code is met and these
exceptions should be granted. This is not a public hearing item.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed site plan. Any motion should include
findings. Possible findings include:




Moto United Site Plan
    1.   The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or
         improvements in the vicinity and will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, general welfare or
         convenience.
    2.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and
         policies of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
    3.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate
         size and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner
         that it will not be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
    4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public meeting.




Moto United Site Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         December 18, 2024

                                                      Moto United Site Plan
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Colby Anderson- requests review of the Moto United site plan located at 450 South Millpond Drive.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Colby Anderson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 12/10/24
Time Start: 3:05 pm
Time End: 3:35 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire:
1. Show hydrant loop as a PI line and connect it to the PI line at the street.
2. Connect 8" fire line to 10" culinary at the street.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
3. connect new 8'' pi loop line to existing 8'' pi main.
4. provide 15'' fl in existing SD MH
5. move storm drain boxes and piping out of 20' easement.
6. new fire hydrant needs to be connected to pi main with valve.
7. Connect 8'' PI main in drive isle with valve flanged to tee.
8. Center 20' water line easement on 8'' pi loop line.
9. show valves flanged to tee for both hydrants.
10. Provide power from building to prevent freezing.
11. reconnect fire line on 10'' main with 10'' MJxFL tee with valve
12. this is the existing fire line off of the 4'' culinary main, Fix line work.
James – Parks:
13. Reword the note on the future trail to clarify that the work will either be done by Lehi City or completed with future
    development of the property by the property owner with reimbursement by the City.
14. The tree requirement is 40 trees per site acre. Add more trees to site to satisfy the tree requirement or request an
    exception to reduce the number of trees.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering:
15. Verify elevations. Appears that elevations are too high to flow out form detention system.
16. Provide back flow prevention valve (Tideflex, or equivalent)
Kim – Planning:
17. Max access width is 28' for a two-lane access and 36' for a three lane access if it is justified. Lehi City Traffic Engineer
    to make final decision on justification for additional width.

General Comments
1. An exception will be required by the Planning Commission in order to use concrete as the primary material.
2. Metering location within 75’ of transformer**. (Justify length/conductors)
3. General: Provide a completed load estimate worksheet. Did not see in packet. E-mail ok.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)


ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         December 18, 2024

1.  For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
    landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
    Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
    must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
    process.
5. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
6. Prior to precon: Approval from Corps of Engineers is required to fill in wetland area
7. Sample MH and Grease trap will need TSSD approval.
8. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
    Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com). More information available at https://www.lehi-
    ut.gov/departments/water/storm-water/
9. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
10. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
    Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
    agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
11. Provide approval letter from the State (UDEQ) for Class V UIC Injection Well.
12. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
13. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
14. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
15. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         December 18, 2024

THIS ITEM IS REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JANUARY 9, 2024.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                3 of 3
