        EV AUTO PYLON SIGN CONDITIONAL USE MODIFICATION
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Alex Lawrence
                         Meeting Date         January 23, 2025
              Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing and approval of a proposed modification to a conditional
                                              use
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        1060 W State Street
                       Existing Zoning        C-H (Heavy Commercial)
              General Plan Designation        C-H
                    Existing Land Use         Undeveloped (Approved EV Auto Site Plan)
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North C-H                       I-15
                                                 South R-1-8                     Single family residential
                                                  East MU                        I-15/Huerta Subdivision
                                                  West C                         Park n Ride Lot
                     Date of DRC Review       December 18, 2024
                       Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.




                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest.

Section 09.070. Noncompliance with Conditional Use Permit. (New 01/13/15)

          A. Public Hearing. If grounds for revocation or modification of a conditional use permit exist, the Commis-
          sion shall hold a public hearing on the question of modification or revocation pursuant to the provisions of
          this Chapter 9. Notice of the hearing shall be the same as would be required for consideration of a conditional
          use application.

          C. Modification. A conditional use permit may be modified by the commission without the consent of the
          property owner or operator, if the commission finds, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the conditional
          use constitutes or is creating a nuisance.

     PROPERTY HISTORY
June 15, 1872               Property was included as part of the original boundaries of Lehi City.

March 26, 2024              The JDXIII zone change was approved to change the zoning to Heavy Commercial.

August 22, 2024             The EV Auto Site Plan was approved by the Planning Commission.

September 12, 2024          The EV Auto Pylon Sign was approved by the Planning Commission with an exception for
                            the height, but with a condition put on the hours of operation of the sign.

     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting a modification to the conditional use approval for a pylon sign with an electronic display
sign (EDS) located at the future EV Auto dealership and repair shop at 1060 W State Street. The applicant is requesting
the operational hours set by the Planning Commission at the September 12, 2024 meeting be removed due to the
obtainment of a light study they didn't have for that meeting. Chapter 9 allows for an application for a modification to
a conditional use to be filed and considered. The study, completed by Watchfire Signs, concludes that the area will
see an almost undetectable difference in ambient light after installation of the sign. Calculations are provided as part
of the study.

There were no comments from the DRC.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional Use applications are administrative items. Meaning if they meet the Code they must be approved. How-
ever, the Code does outline some conditions that may be placed on these uses to mitigate against potential harm to
neighbors.

This is a public hearing item, allowing the pubic to voice their concerns. Public comments focused on potential nega-
tive impacts and any conditions that could reduce these impacts provide useful information to the Commission.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed conditional use and site plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
2.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies


                                                                                                                       2
     of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
3.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
     and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
     be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                       3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         December 18, 2024

                                                           EV Auto
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Alex Lawrence- requests review of a modification to an approved conditional use for a pylon sign for EV Auto at 1060
North State Street.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: None
Date of Plans Reviewed: 12/10/24
Time Start: 2:20 pm
Time End: 2:22 pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments

General Comment
1. They are requesting that the operational hours be removed due to the obtainment of a light study they didn't have for
   the recent PC meeting. Chapter 9 allows for the application for a modification to a conditional use.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JANUARY 9, 2024.
We need public noticing envelopes for this item.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
1/10/2025


LIGHTING STUDY
Watchfire Signs has been manufacturing outdoor electric signs since 1932 and LED signs since 1996.
Currently, we have more than 60,000 LED signs in operation worldwide.
History of Optical Measurements and Calculations
Outdoor signs using incandescent light bulbs commonly measured illuminance using meters that report
brightness in foot-candles. This unit is the standard measurement partly because a light bulb is a
source of light that illuminates equally in all directions. LED signs are measured with the same meter
even though its light does not illuminate equally in all directions. LED signs are designed to be highly
directional, which is an advantage. LEDs allow light to be directed toward an intended audience, rather
than dispersed in a wider arc out from the face of the sign.
In the LED industry luminance, or the intensity of visible light, is measured by nits, where one candela
per square meter is equal to one nit. However, luminance meters are expensive, difficult to use in the
field, and are not ideal for lighting studies commonly used for meeting local permitting requirements. As
a result, LED signs are often evaluated using foot-candle measurements.
A foot-candle is the amount of light produced by a single candle when measured from one foot away.
For reference, a 100-watt light bulb produces 137 foot-candles from 1 foot away, .0548 foot-candles
from 50 feet away, and .0137 foot-candles from 100 feet away.
Watchfire Signs is Compliant with National Lighting Requirements
Watchfire Signs has adopted brightness standards endorsed by both the International Sign Association
(ISA) and Outdoor Advertising Association of America (OAAA). Watchfire Signs’ products meet the
requirements set forth by both associations of no more than 0.3 foot-candles above existing ambient
light levels. Total foot-candles are dependent on size and distance and can be adjusted as needed.
Automatic Brightness Adjustment: All Watchfire signs automatically adjust brightness levels using
either a 100-step hardware photocell, or what is referred to as a software photocell (hardware
photocells are optional on OP Signs). Using the software photocell, the sign will automatically adjust
brightness based on the longitude and latitude location of the sign. The sign is appropriately dimmed or
brightened based around daily sunrise and sunset. A hardware photocell will automatically adjust a
sign’s brightness relative to changes in ambient light levels. For both options, a sign operator can
manually decrease the brightness from standard settings, but for safety reasons and in conformance to
industry codes, Watchfire cannot allow signs to operate brighter than standard settings.
Equipment used by Watchfire Signs to Measure Luminance
Foot-candles/Lux - Minolta Illuminance Meter T-10
Nits/candela/sq. m – Minolta Luminance Meter LS-100
Sign Calibration – Minolta CS-1000 Spectra radiometer
The proceeding study uses actual lab measurements made on modules using an illuminance meter.
These measurements and extrapolations were then scaled up to the size of the sign and distance
corrections were made using the inverse square law.

1 | watchfiresigns.com 800-637-2645
SIGN LIGHTING STUDY
Sign Details
Size: 7’ x 14’

Location: EV Auto, 980 W. State Street, Lehi, UT


The table below represents a LED sign, demonstrating the increase in illuminance from the sign during
normal night operation. The values are within the standards of both the ISA and OAAA and indicate that
the ambient light broadcast into the surrounding area has minimal effect




                               Foot-candles at night under normal operation

                                                            Horizontal Viewing Angle

         Viewing Distance (ft)                       0°      20°     40°      60°      70°

                               100                   0.15    0.13    0.12     0.08     0.05

                               200                   0.04    0.03    0.03     0.02     0.01

                               300                   0.02    0.01    0.01     0.01     0.01

                               400                   0.01    0.01    0.01     0.01     0.00

                               500                   0.01    0.01    0.00     0.00     0.00




2 | watchfiresigns.com 800-637-2645
                          Example Broadcast of Light at Distances and Angles




3 | watchfiresigns.com 800-637-2645
Conclusion

Given the above comparisons and measurements, the area will see an almost undetectable difference in ambient
light after installation of the digital LED Sign.




Ray Digby
Office 800-637-2645, ext 3006

email ray.digby@watchfiresigns.com




4 | watchfiresigns.com 800-637-2645
