                    SUMMER CREST PLAT O PLAT AMENDMENT
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Lehi City
                         Meeting Date         January 23, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Approval of a proposed plat amendment
                              Location        780 East and 798 East 2200 North
     Existing General Plan Designation        Low Density Residential (LDR)
                       Existing Zoning        R-1-8
                    Existing Land Use         Single Family Homes
                 Number of Lots/Units         2
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North R-1-8                 Single Family Homes
                                                 South Public Facility       Family Park Future Phase
                                                  East R-1-8                 Single Family Homes
                                                  West R-1-8                 Single Family Homes
                    Date of DRC Review        January 8, 2025
                      Assigned Planner        Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.340. Vacating, Altering, or Amending a Recorded Subdivision Plat. (Amended 01/23/24)

A. The Planning Commission, following review by the Reviewing Departments, shall be the Land Use Authority
for approving any proposed vacation, alteration, or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision
plat, or any road or lot contained in a subdivision plat. The Planning Commission shall follow all requirements and
procedures identified in Utah State Code Section 10-9a-608.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

May 24, 1978               Property came into the City as part of the Airport Annexation

April 13, 1993             The City Council approved Summer Crest Plat C


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of Summer Crest Plat O, a plat amendment modifying Lots 101 and 102 of Summer
Crest Plat C. This amendment includes Lehi City acquiring a portion of Lot 2 to create a public access for Family
Park. This access will allow residents of the Summer Crest neighborhood to reach the park directly, without needing
to go around to 600 East.

The plat amendment also involves additional land being added to both Lots 1 and 2. The owners of Lots 1 and 2
will purchase the property from Lehi City.

Both lots are in the R-1-8 zone requiring 8,000 square foot lots and 80 feet of frontage on a public street. Both Lots
1 and 2 comply with these zoning requirements. The Planning Commission is reviewing the plat amendment to
ensure it meets the Code requirements. They are not reviewing if a public access should be included or the purchase
of City property by the lot owners.

The Development Review Committee (DRC) reviewed the proposed plat amendment and had three redline com-
ments for necessary updates to the plat.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve or approve with modifications the plat amendment. Any motion should
include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed plat amendment will provide greater community access to Family Park.
    2.   The proposed subdivision meets/does not meet the requirements of the Development Code.
    3.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public meeting.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                            January 8, 2025

                                                      Summer Crest Plat O
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Lehi City – requests review of a Plat Amendment for Summer Crest Plat O, amending lots 101 and 102 of Summer Crest
Plat C located at 780 East and 798 East 2200 North in an R-1-8 Single Family Residential Zone. Need envelopes

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: N/A
Date of Plans Reviewed: 12/16/24
Time Start: 1:25 PM
Time End: 1:30 PM


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments.
Luke- Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
1. Use Lehi standard plat template
2. Remove the community development director signature line
3. Remove “men” from the owner’s dedication


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSON ON JANUARY 23RD.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                                   Summercrest Plat O Amended Plat Narrative

The Parks Department has been working to create a six-foot wide pedestrian access from 2200 North to Family Park to
allow the public better access to the park area. The installation of the project is expected to include the acquisition of
Project right-of-way, as well as construction of sidewalk improvements. Mr. De Jong and another property owner own
property at 798 East 2200 North and 780 East 2200 North respectively, as shown on the attached proposed amended plat
for Summer Crest Subdivision.

Under the proposed agreement, the City would sell a portion of its property in the northeast corner of Family Park (parcel
#12:015:0084) to the adjacent owners, in exchange for allowing the City to create a permanent six-foot wide pedestrian
access along the edge of lot 798 E 2200 N (parcel #52:484:0102). City property will be sold to the owners at a price of $3
per square foot, after deducting the square footage for the six foot wide pedestrian access. The City property is
approximately 2,682 square feet, and the pedestrian access within Owner’s lot is approximately 467 square feet for a price
of $6,645 (2,682sq ft – 467 sq ft x $3/sq ft).

The newly adjusted property lines for the parcels would follow the proposed Summer Crest O Amended Plat, which
would be recorded upon the closing of this transaction. The City will not be required to install any fencing along the
pedestrian access. The City intends to commence construction on the pedestrian access sidewalk as soon as possible to
allow fencing to be installed by Owners adjacent to the new sidewalk.

The new sidewalk will be constructed within the six-foot pedestrian access, and the width of the sidewalk may be adjusted
as necessary to limit any disturbance of the adjacent property to the east during construction.

The City will pay all costs associated with the preparation of the amended subdivision plat and any necessary surveying
and will oversee the required approval process for the amended plat.
