         THE PERFECT WAG SITE PLAN WITH EXISTING BUILDING
                  CONDITIONAL USE AND SITE PLAN
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Allen Glenn
                         Meeting Date         January 23, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use and site plan
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        50 East Main Street
                          Project Area        0.31 acres
                       Existing Zoning        MU
              General Plan Designation        MU
                    Existing Land Use         Previous Hutch’s Furniture
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North MU                        Bookstore
                                                 South R-2                       Duplex
                                                  East MU                        Restaurant
                                                  West MU                        Vacant property
                     Date of DRC Review       January 8, 2025
                       Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.


                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest.

Chapter 39

Dog Care Facility - A facility in which three or more dogs are trained, cared for, and boarded overnight. A dog care
facility may include a permanent, fenced, outdoor enclosure used to contain dogs during daytime hours between 7:00
AM and 9:00 PM. Dogs shall be maintained indoors during over-night hours between 9:00 PM and 7:00 AM. As a
requirement of approval, the Dog Care Facility shall conform with the standards set forth in Chapter 4 of the Municipal
Code with respect to Kennel Standards and maintain a current Kennel Permit at all times.

  PROPERTY HISTORY
June 15, 1872- This property is part of the original boundaries of Lehi City.

  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting the approval of a conditional use permit to allow a dog care facility at the existing building
located at 50 East Main Street. Dog care facilities are a conditional use in all zones where they are allowed, including
the mixed-use zone.

The applicant proposes to repurpose the previous Hutch’s Home Furnishing building into a space for dog boarding,
daycare, grooming, and some dog related retail services. There are no changes proposed to the exterior of the building.
The interior space shows 119 kennels, wash/grooming space, and multiple play areas.

The applicant’s narrative discusses the boarding and daycare structure, including details on the schedule for play
groups based on size and age. Additionally, it discusses hours of operation, number of staff, and the number of patrons.

The DRC had three comments including the following:
1. What is the current occupancy classification? Will this be changing?
2. Is more ventilation needed for the kennel area than what the existing building has?

Additionally, the plans for the dog care facility were sent to the Animal Control officer with the Lehi City Police.
Officer Peterson had a few comments that were included in the DRC comment section of the packet. In summary, he
said he was not opposed to this type of business, and that it could be highly beneficial to have a legal boarding facil-
ity in the area. There were some things to consider including the structural suitability of the existing building, noise
and odor, appropriate permitting, and impact on local authorities.

Please consider the DRC comments in the motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional uses allow for public comment. The comments should focus on the impact of the conditional use of vehicle
storage and any conditions that could help mitigate against potential negative impact to surrounding properties.

The Planning Commission may at their discretion, require reasonable conditions.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed conditional use and site plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:



                                                                                                                        2
1.   The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
     in the vicinity.
2.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
     of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
3.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
     and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
     be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                       3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          January 8, 2025

                             The Perfect Wag Site Plan with Existing Building Conditional Use
                                                DRC Redline Comments

Allen Glenn- requests review of The Perfect Wag site plan with proposed conditional use for dog boarding, daycare, and
grooming in an existing building located at 50 East Main Street.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curits
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Allen Glenn, Kimberly Jorgensen, Jessica Williams
Date of Plans Reviewed: 12/31/24
Time Start: 1:40 pm
Time End: 1:55 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire:
1. What is the current occupancy classification? Will this be changing?
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
2. If approved, a separate application and plans will need to be submitted for a building permit.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
3. Is more ventilation needed for the kennel area than what the existing building has?
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments

General Comments from Officer Peterson (Animal Control)

This is one of the better proposals for this type of business I’ve seen in the past 24 years. I’m not opposed to this type of
business, and it could be highly beneficial to have a legal boarding facility in the area. Currently, we have a significant number
of illegal boarding facilities, including some affiliated with Rover, which are not in compliance with Development or
Municipal Codes.

A few things to consider:

1.        Structural Suitability
The building was not originally designed for this purpose, so it may not be equipped to handle the wear and tear associated
with housing a large number of animals. Purpose-built facilities, such as the North Utah Valley Animal Shelter (NUVAS),
utilize specific materials designed to endure this kind of use.

2.        Noise and Odor Concerns
The NUVAS building, which is about half the size of the Hutch’s building, still allows sound and odor to permeate to the
outside. If you stand near NUVAS, you can hear dogs barking and detect animal-related smells. The Hutch’s building is
located close to residences, a restaurant, and other businesses. Without adequate soundproofing and odor control measures,
this could lead to complaints from neighboring property owners.

3.      Permit and Compliance Requirements
Under the Development Code, a conditional use permit for a kennel/boarding facility may be granted in A1, A5, or mixed-
use zones by the DRC. However, the business would still need to apply for and meet the requirements of a kennel permit
under Municipal Code A-4C-4 through Animal Control annually.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          January 8, 2025

4.        Impact on Local Authorities
Similar facilities across the state have seen increases in animal-related incidents, such as bites, animals running at large,
injuries, cruelty cases, and noise/odor complaints. These issues often require greater involvement from local authorities.

These considerations aren’t deal-breakers but are critical points to address before approval or further action.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JANUARY 23, 2025 AT 7 PM AT CITY
HALL.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
