                               SENSAPURE CONDITIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Sensapure
                         Meeting Date         January 23rd, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        4170 West 2100 North
                          Project Area        Approximately 6 acres
                       Existing Zoning        Heavy Commercial (C-H)
              General Plan Designation        Heavy Commercial (C-H)
                    Existing Land Use         Lewis Landing Office Warehouse
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North Planned Community          Single-family homes
                                                         (PC)
                                                 South Commercial                 2100 North
                                                  East Heavy Commercial           Lewis Landing Office Ware-
                                                         (C-H)                    house
                                                  West Planned Community          Townhomes and auto-courts
                                                         (PC)
                     Date of DRC Review       January 8th, 2025
                       Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General


                                                                                                                       1
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.

The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest.

Manufacturing, Processing, and Assembly – An establishment specializing in the manufacture, processing or packag-
ing of food and beverage products, technology products, electronic components, personal hygiene products and cosmet-
ics, drugs and pharmaceuticals, and other similar materials or products as approved by the Planning Commission. Also
includes the processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of such products, and incidental storage, sales
and distribution.




  PROPERTY HISTORY
February 10, 2022                    The Lehi City Planning Commission approved the Lewis Landing Industrial site
                                     plan for conditional use.

  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting conditional use approval for Sensapure to operate in the Lewis Landing Industrial building
at 4170 West 2100 North. The Lewis Landing Industrial building received conditional use approval previously; Sen-
sapure is moving into the building to operate their business. This report will discuss the nature of the use, the zoning
of the property, and the DRC comments.

Sensapure is a flavor manufacturing company that manufactures flavors for sports nutrition brands. They have four
different product types: spray dried flavors, liquid flavors, dry blended flavors, and dry blended functional blends.
They will be developing, shipping, and manufacturing at this facility. Sensapure expects little semi-truck traffic. Most

                                                                                                                       2
outgoing product is shipped with UPS, FedEx, cargo vans, or LTL trucks. With this, when the Lewis Landing Indus-
trial building received conditional use approval at site plan, one of the conditions was that any semi-truck traffic would
be required to use 2100 North rather than the residential streets. The applicant has stated they will follow this according
to the industrial parks CC&Rs.

Because Sensapure’s products technically fall under food and beverage manufacturing, this therefore is considered
Manufacturing, Processing, and Assembly under the Lehi City Development Code. Manufacturing, Processing, and
Assembly is a conditional use in the Heavy Commercial zone. While there is expected to be little impact from the
operation of the business and the existing building, it was determined that there could be a smell that comes from the
business when Sensapure manufactures the dry blended flavors. The applicant has stated it is more of a sweet, candy
smell, but the Planning Commission should consider this in their review.

There was one redline comment from the DRC. It was a general comment from the Building Department that a separate
building permit will be required.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

This is a conditional use in an existing building. Conditional uses are administrative items, so if they meet the require-
ments of the Development Code they must be approved. The Planning Commission may place reasonable restrictions
on to protect public health, safety, and welfare. The Planning Commission should also only focus on the use of the
business. The building is existing and is not subject to review and approval for this application.

Conditional use items are public hearing items. Comments should focus on potential negative impacts and solutions
to mitigate against those impacts.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed conditional use and site plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
2.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
3.    That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
      and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
      be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
4.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                         3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           January 8, 2025

                                                   Sensapure Conditional Use
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Sensapure- requests review of Sensapure site plan, with a proposed conditional use of Manufacturing, Processing, and
Assembly in an existing building located at 4170 West 2100 North.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Mark Murdock, Ben Seastrand, Tom Greding, Spencer Klein
Date of Plans Reviewed: 12/23/24
Time Start: 1:35 PM
Time End: 1:40 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
1. If approved, separate application and plans will need to be submitted for a building permit.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments.
Luke- Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning: No comments.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAILGATE, NONE)


ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
1. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
2. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
   scheduled.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           January 8, 2025

    provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
    loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
    construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.

THIS ITEM IS/IS NOT REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.
(An exception requires stamped addressed envelopes for public noticing if the project proceeds to Planning Commission)

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JANUARY 23RD. (NEED ENVELOPES
BEFORE SCHEDULING IF CONDITIONAL USE)
PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
About Sensapure Flavors
Before becoming a stand-alone flavor house in 2017, Sensapure began as the flavor
applications department for one of the largest manufacturers of nutritional supplements in the
country. We work with leading sports nutrition brands to build custom flavors that work with their
products.
Our main business location is at 1945 S Fremont Drive, SLC, UT. Along with all the support
functions, we do product development and manufacturing at this site. We manufacture 4
different product types: spray dried flavors, liquid flavors, dry blended flavors and dry blended
functional blends.
We also have an offsite warehouse at 455 S 6400 W, SLC, UT. Here we do all of our shipping,
receiving of bulk raw ingredients, and warehousing.
We plan to move all of the shipping, receiving and warehousing from the 455 S 6400 W building
into the new building at 4170 W 2100 N, Lehi UT. We will also move the dry blending operation
into this building. In the future we plan to install spray drying capacity and perhaps liquid flavor
capacity into this building. The building will also have some office space, a small remote lab for
preparing samples, and a customer meeting and tasting area.
From a shipping and distribution perspective, we are a relatively small operation. We expect to
receive just a few trucks per day or LTL truckloads. Most of the outgoing product goes out UPS,
FedEx, smaller cargo vans, or LTL trucks. We typically ship fewer than 10 orders per day.
Hours of operation for the office, lab and warehouse employees are normal business hours, M-F
8:00 am – 5:00 pm. Production would run two shifts to start, and potentially increasing to a 24
hours per day 5 days per week schedule. The number of employees on the off shifts is less than
10 employees per shift. Total employees at this location would be less than 25 when we first
start up, but that could increase as the business grows.


Below are some photos of our current facilities, to give you an idea of what they look like. We
take extra effort to make things look nice to create a positive impression for our customers.
Main location at 1945 S Fremont Dr, SLC:
