                 RESIDENTIAL TABLE OF USES (TABLE 05.030-A)
                           DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                                          CITY COUNCIL REPORT
                            Applicant         Lehi City
                         Meeting Date         February 11, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Approval of a proposed amendment to the Lehi City Development Code
                  Date of DRC Review          January 8, 2025
  Date of Planning Commission Review          January 23, 2025

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                            City Council      Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General
Plan. In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and
the City Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoin-
         ing properties.
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

Lehi City requests approval of a comprehensive Development Code amendment to the residential table of uses (Table
05.030-A). The updates to the table are a result of direction given by the City Council a few months ago to look at the
non-residential table. While working on the non-residential table of uses, staff decided that it might be beneficial to up-
date the residential table as well.

The changes made to the table are minor and involve combining some uses, removing items from the table altogether,
including references, and the addition of accessory buildings and uses incidental to an allowed use. Some highlights of
the amendment are listed below:

        Public uses, such as parking and sporting facilities, were removed because as City owned properties they would
         get rezoned to Public Facility and are permitted in that zone.

        Animal rights were removed from the table, but a note was added to clarify that animal rights still exist but are
         primarily determined by lot size per Section 12.120 or Table 12.260 of the Code.

        Allowing adult day care in all residential zones in an attempt to help those that due to age or disability need
         greater assistance. This is different from a group home or treatment facility.

The DRC had two comments that were addressed prior to the Planning Commission meeting. The updates are shown in
the packet. The comments related to accessory buildings and uses and animal rights.

Please consider the DRC comments in the motion.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The City Council may approve or deny the proposed development code amendment. Any motion should in-
clude findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and pro-
         visions of the General Plan and its various elements.
    2.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.


  PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION

The Planning Commission reviewed the proposed amendment on January 23, 2025. The minutes and motion from
this meeting are as follows:

3.6) Public hearing and recommendation of Lehi City’s request for review of a comprehensive Development
Code Amendment to Table 05.030.A, the residential table of uses.

Brittney Harris presented the item. Several changes have been made, including: getting rid of the municipal parking
lot category; combining fields and greenways in the same category as playgrounds and sports fields; moving acces-
sory building to the ‘other’ category and including new structures under the umbrella; and pulling the animal rights
category altogether.

Commissioner Eyre asked if golf courses should be put in the parks category as they are paid businesses. He clari-
fied that he had no strong opinions, but it would be worth considering. Brittney Harris agreed that there was a
strange overlap with the commercial recreation facility category and the parks category. She suggested removing
golf courses from the parks category and leaving them solely in the commercial recreation facility category. Com-
missioner Eyre agreed.

Commissioner Lockhart asked why public schools are automatically allowed, but private schools are conditional.
Brittney Harris explained that public schools can’t be legislated by cities. Commissioner Lockhart said that she
would prefer to get rid of all conditional-use categories and make them all permitted and move the decision-making
to the city council.

Motion: Commissioner Eyre moved to positively recommend to the city council with the findings that the proposed
development code amendment is in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provisions of the general plan and its
various elements. He included all DRC comments. He requested that golf courses be removed from the list of per-
mitted facilities, as it is a duplicate.

Commissioner Lockhart requested that Commissioner Eyre include a recommendation for the city council to go over
all conditional uses in the code. Eyre included the recommendation.

Amended Motion: Commissioner Eyre moved to positively recommend the city council with the findings that the
proposed development code amendment is in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provisions of the general
plan and its various elements. He included all DRC comments. He requested that golf courses be removed from the
list of permitted facilities, as it is a duplicate. He also requested that the city council go over all conditional uses in
the code.

Vote: Commissioner Jackson, yes. Commissioner Everett, yes. Commissioner Lockhart, yes. Commissioner Eyre,
yes. Commissioner Kunze, yes.

Motion passed unanimously.
