      HOLBROOK FARMS AREA PLAN AMENDMENT AND CONCEPT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant        Boyer
                           Meeting Date         February 13, 2025
                Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation of an amendment to the Holbrook Farms
                                                Area Plan
                            Decision Type       Legislative
                      Date of DRC Review        January 22, 2025
                        Assigned Planner        Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                             City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Chapter 6 of the Development Code contains all of the regulations and standards that govern the creation of Planned
Communities. Included below are some of the sections that contain general information that may be helpful to the
Planning Commission in their review of the Micron Area Plan.

Section 06.010 Purpose and Intent.
The intent of the Planned Community Zone and this Chapter is to:

A. Allow the City to encourage and facilitate more detailed and specific planning and analysis for certain areas of the
   City.
B. Establish provisions and requirements which enable the City to address unique areas of the City or where other
   characteristics exist that warrant a comprehensive set of land use policies and standards which will encourage an
   efficient and imaginative development pattern.
C. Provide an opportunity for flexibility from the constraints of traditional zoning and allow for development on a
   performance basis. Higher density and intensity of uses may be achieved as higher quality development and
   performance standards are implemented within the zone.
D. Provide a consolidated and structured framework for the processing of preliminary and final subdivision plat(s),
   preliminary and final site plans, and other permits and licenses required by this Code.

An application for approval of a Planned Community Zone is a request by the applicant for additional flexibility
beyond that allowed by the traditional zones within the City. It is the sole responsibility and burden of the applicant to
convince the Planning Commission and City Council that the proposed Planned Community Zone is preferable to
traditional zoning. Approval for use of the Planned Community Zone lies at the discretion of the City Council.

Section 06.020 Planned Community Description.
1. Each Planned Community Zone should include a cohesive mixture of land uses, including commercial and/or
business park uses, which will provide services and employment opportunities to residents within the community.
Residential uses should provide a range of housing types and densities to accommodate a variety of age and income
groups and residential preferences, so that the community’s demographic diversity is maintained. Commercial uses
should focus on retail services for the residents of the community and must include a unifying design theme which
compliments the residential areas. Residential and commercial land uses should be integrated to promote a walkable,
sustainable community.
Development should promote creative lot configuration with usable public and private recreation areas, parks, trails
and open space with assurance of maintenance. Preservation of open space and critical environmental areas is also
highly encouraged through the use of clustering and other innovative development options where a standard lot
pattern is not practical or desirable due to physical constraints.

Section 15.040. Effect of Area Plan Approval.




Holbrook Farms Area Plan Amendment and Concept Plan
    A. If a proposed Area Plan is adopted by the City pursuant to this Chapter, no development, permit or license,
          shall be approved unless such development, permit or license is consistent with and conforms to all the
          requirements of the adopted Area Plan, the Lehi City General Plan, and this Code in effect at the time of
          the application, unless modified by the provisions and requirements of the adopted Area Plan and any
          associated documents.

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.



  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of an area plan amendment to the Holbrook Farms Area Plan. The proposed
amendment would add a 7.15 acre piece of property to the area plan and would designate it as commercial/office
with a portion of it as residential. This is to help facilitate the construction of around 80 townhomes in area 14 of the
area plan. A concept plan was included as part of this application to better illustrate the vision the applicant has. Both
the land use map changes and concept plan are detailed below.

Land Use Map
The proposed amendment would update the land use map to include the 7.15 acre piece in the area plan and add a
Residential Overlay Zone to area 14. The residential overlay is restricted to the northern portion of the parcel, along
Waterbury Drive. The rest of the area will remain commercial only. This is to allow for better use of the property as
most commercial areas want visibility from 2100 North and the future freeway. The applicant has stated in their
narrative that most of the commercial uses they would expect in the residential area if the residential overlay was not
allowed would be office/warehouse. The applicant has expressed they would like to include townhomes there instead
of office/warehouse to better transition the commercial uses along 2100 North to the homes north of Waterbury
Drive.

The amount of allocated ERU’s for the entire area plan will remain the same. Many ERU’s were not used in other
phases, and the area plan states that any un-used ERU’s can be transferred to Residential Overlay Zones only. The
land use table has been updated on the map to include the proposed concept plan density for the townhomes in area
14. The Residential Overlay would allow for 13.3 units an acre with a maximum density of 85 ERU’s.

Concept Plan
A concept plan application was submitted concurrently with the area plan amendment to illustrate the townhome
concept within area 14. The concept currently shows 85 townhome units with amenities as required by the
development code. The total acreage of the proposed townhome area would be 6.39 acres, with a total density of
13.3 units an acre. The total parking provided is 369 stalls, with two stalls per unit (170 stalls) and 1 stall per every
3 units of guest parking (29). The parking meets all requirements in the current area plan.

DRC Comments
The DRC reviewed the proposed area plan amendment and had six redline comments, including:
1. Suggest reducing the residential overlay area to just the acreage it is needed on, and keep as much as possible
    as commercia/office. Residential is not recommended along 2100 north, it’s not conductive for that use.
2. On the proposed concept plan, recommend looking at other layouts that better integrate the residential with the
    commercial. Can a small mixed use center be done? Something along the lines of Ivory Ridge along Center
    Street? Will all of the units along the periphery be front load, or will the units facing Waterbury and Phase 2 be
    rear loading?
3. Make sure all numbers on the land use map are updated based on the new acreage being added to the plan.

The applicant submitted updated materials after DRC review to be included in this packet. Therefore, DRC comment
one and three have already been addressed. The applicant has expressed interest in meeting DRC comment 2 and will
continue to work with City Staff if the area plan amendment is approved.



Holbrook Farms Area Plan Amendment and Concept Plan
Please consider all DRC comments, except comments one and three from the list above, in your motion.


 POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may provide a positive or negative recommendation to City Council on the proposed
Holbrook Farms Area Plan Amendment. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed area plan amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provisions of the
         General Plan and its various elements.
    2.   The proposed area plan amendment is/is not consistent with the land uses and zoning of nearby and adjoining
         properties.
    3.   The proposed area plan amendment will/will not have a substantial adverse effect on surrounding property.
    4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Holbrook Farms Area Plan Amendment and Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           January 22, 2025

                                 Holbrook Farms Area Plan Amendment and Concept Plan
                                               DRC Redline Comments

Boyer- requests review of the Holbrook Farms Area Plan Amendment to add 7.15 acres of property to the area plan at
approximately 2100 North 3600 West.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Ben Duzett, Howard Cooke, Spencer Moffat
Date of Plans Reviewed: 01/13/25
Time Start: 1:15 PM
Time End: 1:30 PM


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
1. work with Scott Holbrook on re-routing his irrigation ditch in this parcel.
2. will need 20' sewer easement.
James – Parks:
A. Site plan
        a. Provide irrigation plan
        b. Provide landscaping plan
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments.
Luke- Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
3. Suggest reducing the residential overlay area to just the acreage it is needed on, and keep as much as possible as
    commercial/office. Residential is not recommended along 2100 North, it's not conducive for that use.
4. On the proposed concept plan, recommend looking at other layouts that better integrate the residential with the
    commercial. Can a small mixed use center be done? Something along the lines of Ivory Ridge along Center Street?
    Will all of the units along the periphery be front load, or will the units facing Waterbury and Phase 2 be rear loading?
5. Make sure all numbers on the land use map are updated based on the new acreage being added to the plan.
6. Review of a concept plan should include an application for concept.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON FEBRUARY 13TH PENDING CONCEPT
PLAN APPLICATION BEING FILED AND ENVELOPES.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
        Memorandum
        To:   Lehi City
        CC:   Boyer Development
        From: Focus Engineering and Surveying
        Date: 1/13/2025
        Re:   Holbrook Farms January 2025 Area Plan Amendment




               Boyer Holbrook Commercial L.C. would like to amend a small section
of the Holbrook Farms Area Plan. The only section of the area plan that will be
amended is section 14 as shown on the updated land use map. There is a small
triangle section that was not originally included in the Holbrook Farms Area Plan that
we would like to now include in the area plan.

       The second amendment to the area plan is to include a residential overlay
over section 14 of the area plan. The goal of this amendment is not to make it all
residential, but rather to allow a portion not along 3600 West, 2100 North or the
hospital road to become townhomes. We have attached a concept of what we
would like to propose for the area. The benefit of this amendment is it allows us to
get very viable commercial along the major roadways. The commercial use on the
whole property is less viable with the exception of warehouse uses. We would prefer
not to put warehouse in this area adjacent to the single-family homes north of the
parcel but feel that a townhome pocket would be a great transitional use between
the single family and the commercial.




                                                                                         1
