         PROSTEEL CUSTOMS DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant        ProSteel Customs
                           Meeting Date         February 13, 2025
                Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation on proposed amendments to the Lehi City
                                                Development Code
                            Decision Type       Legislative
                      Date of DRC Review        January 22, 2025

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                             City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General Plan.
In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and the City
Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties.
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting an amendment to the Lehi City Development Code. The specific amendment is to allow auto-
mobile sales/rentals equal to or greater than one acre in size in the Commercial zone. The applicant has expressed a desire
to rent U-Haul trailers in addition to their existing automobile service and repair business. The applicant has stated that
allowing auto sales and rentals is vital to economic growth and meeting the evolving needs of the community as it will
create jobs, boost tax revenue, and provide essential services.

DRC Comments
The DRC had two comments, including:
1. In 2018 the City adopted a code amendment to remove auto sales from the C zone since the Heavy Commercial zone
    was created. At that time it was removed so auto sales don't proliferate the city and are focused in areas that are less
    impactful. Planning staff recommends keeping the table as-is. Perhaps a General Plan amendment is more appropriate
    and can look specifically at one site rather than changing things city-wide.
2. Recommend changing the first sentence of the narrative to read: "Changing the Table of Uses to allow automobile
    sales & rental in the Commercial Zone is vital to support economic growth and meet the evolving needs of our com-
    munity."

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Development Code Amendments are legislative items. The Planning Commission provides either a positive or nega-
tive recommendation to the City Council. The City Council will ultimately decide if the amendment will be approved
or not.

This is a public hearing item.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendments to the Lehi
City Development Code. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provi-
         sions of the General Plan and its various elements.
    2.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           January 22, 2025

                                      ProSteel Customs Development Code Amendment
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

ProSteel Customs- requests review of the ProSteel Customs Development Code Amendment, amending Table 05.030-B to
allow auto sales and rental on parcels larger than an acre in the Commercial zone.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 01/13/25
Time Start: 1:30 PM
Time End: 1:35 PM


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments.
Luke- Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
1. In 2018 the City adopted a code amendment to remove auto sales from the C zone since the Heavy Commercial zone
    was created. At that time it was removed so auto sales don't proliferate the city and are focused in areas that are less
    impactful. Planning staff recommends keeping the table as-is. Perhaps a General Plan amendment is more appropriate
    and can look specifically at one site rather than changing things city-wide.
2. Recommend changing the first sentence of the narrative to read: "Changing the Table of Uses to allow automobile
    sales & rental in the Commercial Zone is vital to support economic growth and meet the evolving needs of our
    community."


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON FEBRUARY 13TH.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                                                                      January 9, 2025




To Whom it may concern,

Changing the amendment to heavy commercial is vital to support economic growth and
meet the evolving needs of our community. This zoning adjustment allows for larger-scale
operations, which can create jobs, boost tax revenue, and provide essential services that
drive local development. By enabling flexibility for heavy commercial activities, we position
our area as a competitive and thriving hub for commerce, ensuring long-term sustainability



Thank you,

Donny Whitcomb

(Owner of Prosteel Customs)
Chapter 5 Zoning Districts                                                                                                                     Table 05-030-B

                                                                                                         DISTRICT
                              USE
                                                                 NC       C      C-H       CR      C-1      BP       LI       MU        T/M       PF       HI

   Schools                                                         P      P        P        P       P        P        P         P         P        P        P

   Sporting Facilities, Arenas                                            P        P        P                P        P         P         P        P

   Sports Fields and Courts                                               P        P        P                P        P         P         P        P

   Transit Station                                                 P      P        P        P       P        P        P         P         P        P        P

   COMMUNICATION & UTILITIES

   Communication Facilities and Towers [See
                                                                          C        C        C                C        C         C         C        P
   Sec.12.140]

   Electrical Substations and Power Transmission
                                                                   P      P        P        P       P        P        P         P         P        P        P
   Lines, Municipal
   Electrical Substations and Power Transmission
                                                                          C        C        C                C        C         C         C        C
   Lines, Non-Municipal

   Oil & Gas Transmission Lines                                    C      C        C        C       C        C        C         C         C        C       C

   Public and Private (with franchise agreement)
                                                                   P      P        P        P       P        P        P         P         P        P        P
   Utility Underground Lines, and Rights of Way
   Public and Private (with franchise agreement)
   Utility Buildings and Other Above Ground,                       C      C        C        C       C        C        C         C         C        C       C
   Structures
   Renewable Energy System (Solar and Small Wind
                                                                   P      P        P        P       P        P        P         P         P        P        P
   Energy Systems – see Chapter 19)

   Wind Energy Facility – see Chapter 19                                                                                                           C

   COMMERCIAL/NONRESIDENTIAL USES

   Accessory uses incidental to an authorized use                  P      P        P        P       P        P        P         P         P        P        P

   Adult Daycare                                                   P      P        P        P                P                  P

   Artisan Shop                                                    P      P        P        P                P        P         P

   Athletic Instruction                                            P      P        P        P                P        P         P

   Automobile Sales/Rental sites 1 acre or larger                         P        P        P                         P

   Automobile Service and Repair                                          P        P        P                         P

   Automobile Service and Repair, Large                                            C                                  C

Notes:
P = Uses allowed as a Permitted Use.
P1= Single family homes that existed at the time this code was adopted (9/11/12) shall continue; however new single-family dwellings shall only be permitted in
  areas with remaining density per Map 05.010 Maximum TOD and Mixed Use Density Map.
P2= Allowed provided there is remaining density as allocated per Map 05.010 Maximum TOD and Mixed Use Density Map.
P3= Only permitted for Financial Services and Pharmacy uses that: 1) are on a parcel adjacent to a UDOT Principal Arterial or along the 2100 North Corridor,
2) incorporate pedestrian-oriented design elements into the site plan (such as pedestrian walkway or trail), and 3) are designed to shield headlights from adjacent
  properties.
C = Uses allowed as a Conditional Use. Uses not identified as either a Permitted or Conditional Use are deemed to be prohibited.
* All uses in the Planned Community and Resort Community Zones must be authorized through an Area Plan pursuant to Chapter 15or through a Land Use Plan

pursuant to Chapters 38 and 39. All uses in the Transit Oriented Development Zone must be authorized by a Land Use Plan pursuant to Chapter 38 and 39.

Lehi City Development Code                                                                                                                    Page 5-15
