                                       HEATON ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant         Travis Heaton
                                Meeting Date          February 27, 2025
                     Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                      change
                              Decision Type           Legislative
                                   Location           285 S 500 W
                                    Acreage           0.73 acres
                            Existing Zoning           RA-1
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           LDR
               Proposed Zoning Designation            R-1-Flex
                          Existing Land Use           Single family residential
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North RA-1                Single family residential
                                                       South RA-1               Single family residential
                                                        East RA-1               Single family residential
                                                        West RA-1               Single family residential
                            Date of DRC Review        February 5, 2025
                              Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                  City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.

Section 05.020. Zoning Districts Purpose.

E. The purpose of the Low Density Residential Districts (R-1-12, R-1-10, R-1-8, and R-1-Flex) is to provide for single-
family residential areas and dwelling units on individual lots.

    1.   The standard zones for the Low Density Residential District are the R-1-Flex zone and R-1-12.




Heaton Zone Change
      F. 1. All developments within the R-1-Flex District that are less than ten gross acres in size shall meet the follow-
      ing requirements:

      (a) maximum density of three and one quarter (3.25) units per acre; and
      (b) minimum lot size of 8,000 square feet.


     APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (LDR)

The Low Density Residential (LDR) classification provides for predominantly single-family residential areas and single
family dwelling units with an overall neighborhood density not to exceed 4 units per acre.


     PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872- This property was incorporated with the original boundaries of Lehi City.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from RA-1 to R-1-Flex on 0.73 acres
of property located at 285 S 500 W. The General Plan designation of LDR is consistent with the requested zoning of R-
1-Flex.

The rezone application will allow the applicant to subdivide the property and create a buildable lot. The zone change is
needed to meet street frontage requirements for the second lot.

The DRC reviewed the proposed zone change and had one redline comment.

1.    We would only require .45 acre feet of culinary water to serve the additional home. They wouldn't need to dedicate
      any more irrigation water.

Please consider the DRC comment in the motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes that follow the General Plan must be approved unless there is significant evidence that doing so will have
a negative impact on the health, safety or welfare of residents.

This is a public hearing item, meaning the public can speak on this item. However, the public should realize that the
zone change cannot be denied simply because they do not like the proposed development. Comments should focus on
negative impacts that would take place with the zone change.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;



Heaton Zone Change
   2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
   3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
        properties;
   4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
        the General Plan;
   5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
        for nearby and adjoining properties;
   6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Heaton Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           February 5, 2025

                                                      Heaton Zone Change
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Travis Heaton- requests review of the Heaton Zone Change on 0.73 acres from RA-1 to R-1-Flex located at 285 South 500
West.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Travis Heaton
Date of Plans Reviewed: 01/28/25
Time Start: 1:03 pm
Time End: 1:05 pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: (kstruthers@lehi-ut.gov)
1. We would only require .45 acre feet of culinary water to serve the additional home. They wouldn't need to dedicate
    any more irrigation water.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON FEBRUARY 27, 2025. (NEED
ENVELOPES)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
I am requesting a zone change from RA-1 to R-1-Flex on my 0.73-acre property at 285 S 500
W. I would like to subdivide my lot to build a new home for my family to the North of the
existing home. The change reduces the lot frontage requirements that I need for the
subdivision.




Legal Description: LOT 2 OF BLK 21, PLAT A, LEHI CITY SUR.
The zone change request to R-1-Flex is consistent with the General Plan designation of
LDR.
