     INVERNESS PROJECT PLACEMAKING SIGNS CONDITIONAL USE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant         DR Horton
                            Meeting Date         February 13. 2025
                Requested Action/Purpose         Approval of proposed community placemaking signs
                           Decision Type         Administrative
                                Location         Three sites in the Inverness Planned Community
                    Date of DRC Review           January 29, 2025
                        Assigned Planner         Brittney Harris

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 23.090 Regulations for Permanent Signs
        F. Project Placemaking Sign. Project placemaking signs shall be allowed for residential or commercial
             developments as a conditional use as per the following:
                1. located only at multi-tenant or multi-parcel projects a minimum of ten acres in size;
                2. located only on parcels fronting arterial roads, state highways, or I-15;
                3. design is artistically unique and does not fit the typical box-cabinet, monument, or pylon sign design
                   requirements;
                4. copy shall not exceed 200 square feet; and
                5. height, design, scale, and context are deemed appropriate to the site.

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the vicinity
of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said requirements and
conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site planning, traffic
control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads, and time limits for
the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential requirements and conditions:

1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers of all
buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance and character
of the area.
2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and driveways
to specified standards.
4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
5. Water supply and fire protection.
6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter, heat, glare,
electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
8. Regulation of signs.
9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and operated in
compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of the
proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General Plan, and
the intent and purpose of this Code.

The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being, or
will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with the




Inverness Project Placemaking Sign
land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest



  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval for project placemaking signs at three locations in the Inverness Planned Community.
These signs are slightly larger then what a monument sign allows and include a projecting rock feature. These
elements made it fit more appropriately under the “project placemaking” category in Chapter 23 of the Development
Code.

Project placemaking signs help create a strong sense of place, similar to those found throughout the Traverse
Mountain development.

The proposed Inverness signs comply with the sign copy and other requirements specified in Section 23.090. Site
plans were also reviewed to ensure there are no conflicts with utility easements, sight triangles, or other important
functions.

The Development Review Committee (DRC) reviewed the proposed signs and suggested providing three separate
site plans for the three signs, along with dimensions to confirm they are placed outside of utility easements and
sightlines. These updated site plans, which have been reviewed by the DRC, are included in this packet.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional uses are allowed uses that can have reasonable conditions put on the approval by the Planning
Commission. Conditions should relate to the mitigation of negative impacts.

The public may speak on conditional use items. The most helpful comments include considerations of the negative
impacts and suggestions on possible conditions.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve, approve with modifications, or deny the proposed concept plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1. The proposed project placemaking signs conform with the requirements in Section 23.090.
    2. The proposed project placemaking signs are located outside of PUEs and safety site view areas.
    3. The proposed project placemaking signs will increase the sense of place in the Inverness Planned
       Community.
    4. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Inverness Project Placemaking Sign
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           January 29, 2025

                                           Inverness Community Placemaking Signs
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

DR Horton- requests review of the Inverness Community Placemaking Monument Signs located in 3 locations within
Inverness.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Ben Tuckett, Scott Bishop, Rockwell Strong, Jacob Kenney
Date of Plans Reviewed: 1/16/25
Time Start: 1:05pm
Time End: 1:10pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Show plan-view drawings for the other two locations.
2. Include easement lines.
Garion – Fire: No Comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
3. Please add and label where the Public Utility Easements are and make sure that the sign is out of the easements and
    also out of the line of site for the intersection.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
4. Provide site specific layouts for the other two locations, similar to this one.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON FEBRUARY 13, 2025




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                                                                                                           05/06/22
         Inverness Community Monument Sign – Conditional Use Permit Narrative

        D.R. Horton seeks a conditional use permit to build some large monument signs within the Inverness
community. The locations of the monument signs can be found below in the attached Inverness Community
Exhibit and shown as red circles with a line in the middle. One will be on the north end of the D.R. Horton
Office Building, one is on the south end of the Clubhouse site and one on the east side of the community near a
detention basin. All of them will be along the side of Horton Way. The plans are also included with this
application.
Inverness is named and themed after the Scottish town that is known as the capital seat of the Scottish
Highlands and is a desired destination city to both live and visit. The monuments are a modern adaptation and
design inspired by the many ancient Scottish stone circles found throughout the region. The monument signs
will be custom-built on site out of concrete with steel lettering that is back-lit. There is also an additional
monument piece behind the concrete structure that is more vertical in orientation and is built from steel panels.

                                        Inverness Community Exhibit




                                                        4 of 4
