                              KAZ DESIGN BUILD ZONE CHANGE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                   Applicant        Lydon Dangerfield
                               Meeting Date         February 27, 2025
                    Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                    change
                              Decision Type         Legislative
                                   Location         850 North 1200 East
                                    Acreage         0.99 acres
                            Existing Zoning         RA-1
          General Plan Land Use Designation         Low Density Residential (LDR)
               Proposed Zoning Designation          R-1-Flex
                          Existing Land Use         Single Family Home
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use           North R-1-8                Single Family Homes
                                                     South RA-1                Single Family Homes
                                                      East Unincorporated Single Family Homes
                                                      West R-1-8               Church Building
                           Date of DRC Review       February 5, 2025
                             Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                         Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                 City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should
consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

Strong Communities
Establish strong communities where residents have opportunities for meaningful social connections and support sys-
tems.




KAZ Design Build Zone Change
Strategy 1 Create a life-cycle housing policy that encourages a diversity of housing types in Lehi’s neighborhoods
to provide housing options for prospective residents of differing ages, incomes, abilities, and lifestyles.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

March 29, 1972              Property came into the City as part of the Covington Addition


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of the KAZ Design Build Zone change from RA-1 to R-1-Flex.
The proposed zoning is consistent with the General Plan Designation of Low Density Residential (LDR). The appli-
cant has shared their intent to create a flag lot on this lot in the future. This zone change would allow the flag lot by
reducing the frontage requirement of the zone as well as the lot size requirement.

The DRC had one redline comment requiring additional culinary water for the higher density zone. The DRC also
had informational comments for the applicant for their future subdivision.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative items which gives some discretion to the Planning Commission and City Council. This
zone change matches the General Plan which would require more articulation of reasons for denying it.

The public can speak to this item. Comments that support or oppose the change are most helpful when tied to specific
concerns that will impact the neighborhood and community.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed zone change is consistent with the General Plan Designation of Low Density Residential.
    2.   The proposed zone change will allow for a flag lot in the area.
    3.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    4.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    5.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




KAZ Design Build Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           February 5, 2025

                                                       KAZ Design Build
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Lyndon Dangerfield- requests review of the KAZ Design Build Zone Change on 0.99 acres from RA-1 to R-1-Flex located
at 850 North 1200 East.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Mike West, Gary Smith, Gary Ellis, Trent Dyer
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Lyndon Dangerfield, Adam Peterson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 01/23/25
Time Start: 1:20pm
Time End: 1:32pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
General Information: Options
    1. Request RMP to serve the flag lot. (unlikely)
    2. Asset transfer and Lehi Power line extension required. Paid by developer.
    3. Asset transfer for entire segment of RMP line. This would require RMP, Lehi City, and PSC approval.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
Trent – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Mike – Planning:
1. 0.45 acre feet of culinary water will need to be provided to serve the additional home. These water rights can be
    purchased from Lehi Water Metro. You can reach out to Kim Struthers for more information kstruthers@lehi-ut.gov
2. Informational: The existing home will need to be demolished (garage demolished) for the setback to work for a flag lot.
    The home is required to have a two car garage so you will have to figure out a way to still provide that if you demolish
    the garage.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON FEBRUARY 27, 2025




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
‭KAZ Design Build - Zone Change Narrative‬



‭ y purpose in requesting a zone change for the property located at 850 N 1200 E Lehi is to‬
M
‭reduce the minimum lot frontage requirement in order to‬‭create a 20-foot frontage for securing a‬
 ‭“Flag lot conditional use permit” a‬‭nd approval for a “2-lot subdivision with an existing home”‬‭.‬
  ‭The flag lot will be created as a site for a new single-family dwelling. A change in zoning would‬
   ‭allow for the 20’ frontage needed for the flag stem and maintain a 84’ frontage for the existing‬
    ‭home, which would meet current zoning requirements.‬

I‭ am therefore requesting a zone designation change on 850 N 1200 E Lehi, UT 84043 from‬
 ‭RA-1 to R1-flex.‬

‭ ultiple examples of this same designation change can be found on similar neighboring‬
M
‭properties.‬

‭ istoric Parcel Location:‬
H
‭602 N 1200 EAST - LEHI‬
 ‭610 N 1200 EAST - LEHI‬
  ‭616 N 1200 EAST - LEHI‬
   ‭748 N 1200 EAST - AMERICAN FORK DISTR‬
    ‭566 N 1200 EAST - AMERICAN FORK DISTR‬


‭ he proposed amendment to 850 N 1200 E Lehi, UT 84043 will not unduly affect the uses or‬
T
‭proposed uses for any nearby or adjoining properties. Rather it will align with and conform to the‬
 ‭updates made to neighboring properties who have also made the designation change. The‬
  ‭public’s health, safety, welfare and overall community benefit will be protected and maintained‬
   ‭as this amendment would allow for the highest and best use of the land.‬

I‭ am under contract to purchase this property with the intent to divide the property into 2 lots.The‬
 ‭existing home will undergo a full renovation, per city approval and permitting, and be sold upon‬
  ‭completion. Following the sale of the existing home, a new single family residence will be built‬
   ‭on the flag lot.‬

‭ egal Description:‬
L
‭COM S 0 DEG 19' 0" E 236.45 FT ALONG SEC. LINE & E 57.46 FT FR W 1/4 COR. SEC. 10,‬
 ‭T5S, R1E, SLB&M.; N 89 DEG 38' 0" E 414.68 FT; S 0 DEG 13' 0" E 104.45 FT; S 89 DEG 38'‬
  ‭0" W 414.98 FT; N 0 DEG 4' 0" W 104.45 FT TO BEG. AREA 0.995 AC.‬


‭Thank you,‬

‭Lyndon Dangerfield‬
