               CHAPTER 12-B DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant        Lehi City
                           Meeting Date         February 13, 2025
                Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation on proposed amendments to the Lehi City
                                                Development Code
                            Decision Type       Legislative
                      Date of DRC Review        January 15, 2025

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                             City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General Plan.
In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and the City
Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties.
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting a Development Code Amendment to Chapter 12-B of the Development Code. The purpose of
this amendment is to ensure all options are available to the City to remediate city property that has been encroached upon.
The current language prohibits a property owner from purchasing the City owned property that was encroached on. Staff
believes it limits the City’s ability to work with property owners to restore the property. The proposed amendment would
remove this language from Chapter 12-B to help ensure all options are available to work with the property owners to
restore the property, including the possibility to purchase the property from the City.

There were no comments from the DRC on this amendment.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL
Development Code Amendments are legislative items. The Planning Commission has the discretion to provide a pos-
itive or negative recommendation to the City Council. The City Council will decide if the amendment will be approved
or not.

This is a public hearing item.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendments to the Lehi
City Development Code. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provi-
         sions of the General Plan and its various elements.
    2.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           January 15, 2025

                                         Chapter 12B Development Code Amendment
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Lehi City- requests review of a Development Code amendment on Chapter 12-B, removing the requirement that property
owners cannot purchase property from the City.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: N/A
Date of Plans Reviewed: 01/09/25
Time Start: 2:10 PM
Time End: 2:10 PM


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Remove apostrophe.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments.
Luke- Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning: No comments.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON FEBRUARY 13TH.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Grading Permits                                                                              Adopted 11/18/08

                                                           C.     The same rules apply for removal and
A.    Removal of survey stakes and/or               not    maintenance of survey stakes, too much material
maintaining clearly marked survey stakes.                  removed and trucks not following designated haul
                                                           routes or not practicing safe trucking standards.
B.     Grading that removes more material than
specified in the permit request.                           D.      Grading that occurs without a valid grading
                                                           permit or after the grading permit has expired will
C.     Trucks hauling from the grading site not            result in a minimum daily fine of five hundred dollars
following approved haul routes for following safe          ($500) per day.
trucking standards.
                                                           E.     Any person who is found to be in violation of
D.    Grading that occurs after the grading permit         an approved grading permit, or who is found to be in
has expired.                                               violation of this Code, may be charged with a
                                                           misdemeanor and subject to enforcement by the City,
E.    Exceeding the average daily truck trips by           as per Section 34.010 of this Code.
more than ten percent (10%) in a 30 day period
without requesting a higher average in writing.

F.    Any work is not performed in compliance with
the SWPPP Plan.

Section 12-B.090 Penalties
(Amended 11/12/13; 10/10/24)

A.     If grading occurs without a valid grading
permit or outside the approved surveyed area the
grading project may be stop work ordered and all
work will be stopped. The stop work order will stay
in place until the area graded outside of the approved
area is returned to its original elevation and re-
vegetated. If grading is conducted outside the
surveyed area a second time no grading will be
allowed for 30 days as well as the unauthorized
graded area will be returned to original elevation and
re-vegetated. If grading occurs a third time outside the
approved area the grading permit will be revoked and
the landowner or his/her designee must apply for a
new grading permit paying the permit fee again as
well as a new bond, if applicable and the disturbed
ground outside the approved area must be restored
before the new grading permit will be considered.

B.     Grading and/or landscaping onto City owned
property (except for park strips) is prohibited. If a
property owner is found responsible for grading or
encroaching on city property, by their own act or their
agents’, they are thereby precluded from purchasing
the City owned property from the City. If grading
onto City property has occurred, the property shall be
restored to its previous condition at the violator’s
expense. Violator’s will be granted a 30-day period to
contact and begin working with City Staff on
remedying violations. If the violator does not contact
Staff, or at any point does not actively work towards
remedying the situation, it shall be a Class B
misdemeanor.



Lehi City Development Code                                                                        Page 12-B-1
