                     SWIG DRIVE THROUGH CONDITIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Swig
                         Meeting Date         March 13, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use and site plan
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        1678 East Timpanogos Highway
                          Project Area        0.83 acres
                       Existing Zoning        Commercial
              General Plan Designation        Commercial
                    Existing Land Use         Retail Building
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North SR-92                     SR-92
                                                 South Commercial                Smith’s Shopping Center
                                                  East Commercial                Credit Union
                                                  West Commercial                Retail
                     Date of DRC Review       February 19, 2025
                       Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.




                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest

     PROPERTY HISTORY
May 1, 2002                  Property came into the City as part of the Backman Annexation

May 13, 2008                 The City Council approved the Center Pointe at Lehi Amended Subdivision

     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of a conditional use drive through located at 1678 East Timpanogos Highway. The
new Swig will be going into the north part of the retail building where Hanger 15 bikes previously was located. The
retail building has a drive through that was constructed with the retail building. However, the drive through was
originally built for the southern portion of the building.

DRC reviewed the proposed drive through, and the Lehi City Traffic Engineer had concerns with stacking and the
direction of the drive through line. The other Swig, located on State Street in Lehi, has had problems with the line
extending into State Street. The Lehi Traffic Engineer recommends that the commissioners may consider requiring a
stacking study and also queuing the line to go through the parking to the north before extending towards the drive
aisle that goes throughout the Center Pointe shopping center. The Planning Commission may consider if these are
conditions they would like to include as part of their approval.

Please consider the DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Drive-throughs are allowed uses that may have conditions put on them. The conditions are to mitigate against the
negative impacts that the proposal may have on surrounding properties and the community. The Planning Commission
may consider conditions and if they are reasonable.

The public may speak on this item. Comments should remain focused on the drive through and its potential impact in
the area. Comments that also include potential conditions that could mitigate against the impacts are the most helpful.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or approve with conditions the proposed conditional use. Any
motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    Swig’s drive through on State Street has/has not had a negative impact on the larger traffic patterns in Lehi City.
2.    The proposed drive through can/ cannot have reasonable conditions put on it to help with the potential negative
      impacts.
3.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
4.    That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
      and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
      be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
5.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                        2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 19, 2025

                                             Swig Drive Through Conditional Use
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Swig- requests review of the Swig Conditional Use Drive-Through located in an existing building at 1678 East Timpanogos
Highway.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Erik Nobel and Cristian Guiterrez
Date of Plans Reviewed: 02/10/25
Time Start: 1:25pm
Time End: 1:33pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic:
1. The SWIG located at 1351 E State St has had a chronic queuing issue. Despite having nearly 380 feet of storage in
    their drive through loop their customers regularly queue into State St at this location. That kind of queuing at this
    location would block parking stalls and block the major east/west drive isle in the shopping center.
    A traffic study should be done to assess queuing at other SWIG locations including in Lehi and Saratoga Springs to
    determine if this site can handle the expected queuing.
Kim – Planning:
2. Please submit a sign permit application for review and approval of the proposed signage.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 13, 2025

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Project Narrative                                              PREPARED BY
Conditional Use Permit                                    Barghausen Consulting
                                                                 Engineers, LLC
Swig Drinks Store UT1056


          PREPARED FOR                           CLIENT ADDRESS
             Swig Drinks                   1557 W Innovation Way, Suite 125
                                                   Lehi, UT 84043




     SITE ADDRESS            PROJECT NO.       DATE              JURISDICTION
 1678 Timpanagos Hwy K-101      23790        02/06/2025            City of Lehi
       Lehi, UT 84043
Swig Drinks Overview

Swig Drinks is a drive-through and walk-up soda-fountain chain founded in 2010 in St. George,
Utah. There are now over 141 stores in 14 states. Swig prioritizes fast, quality customer service
and serves up “happiness in a cup.” The featured product is known as a “dirty soda” created by
mixing a name-brand soda with flavored syrups, creams, and/or fruit purees. Swig stores also sell
non-soda beverages, energy drinks, and prepackaged snacks such as cookies, pretzel bites, and
suckers.

In addition to providing a quality product, Swig believes in giving back to the communities they
serve. They offer fundraiser options for charities, groups, individuals, and organizations. “Save
the Cups” is a fundraiser throughout the month of October raising money to help women pay off
bills from fighting cancer. The “Share the Love” campaign supports over 30 local charities chosen
by Swig employees, including domestic violence centers, canter treatment and research facilities
and nonprofits that provide accessible mental health services.

Project Overview

This Swig project proposes to remodel a 1,204-square-foot end-cap tenant space in a multi-tenant
building within a large shopping center. The building is addressed as 1678 Timpanagos Highway,
Unit K-101. The proposal requires approval of a Conditional Use Permit as the space was
previously used as a bicycle retail store since 2016.

Based on images from Google Earth, it appears construction of the shopping center was started
in 2009, and the subject tenant space building was constructed in 2011. There is a drive-through
lane around the building, however, no drive-through service window. This proposal involves
remodeling the interior tenant space, adding a drive-through window on the northern wall, and
adding a single door at the front of the store. This shop will be a drive-through only.

The 1,204 square-foot tenant space is located within the shopping center south of Timpanogos
Hwy and west of Catch Basin Road. Behind the building is a 10.5-foot-wide drive-through lane
that begins at the south end of the building by the Asian Bistro and Sushi Bar, continues north
behind the building, and turns west to the new Swig drive-thru window. The drive aisle behind the
building will provide the stacking and queuing for the Swig.

Queuing and Stacking

Approximately 180 feet of stacking space is available from the beginning of the drive-through lane
to the drive-through window providing queuing for nine (9) vehicles. Other Swig stores in Utah
have similar stacking space and operate without impacting adjacent drive-aisles or rights-of-way.


     Location                                      Stacking Space


     1351 East State Street, Lehi UT                       295 feet (14 cars)


     131 East Main Street, American Forks, UT              210 feet (10 cars)


     554 North Mill Road F-101 Vineyard, UT                280 feet (12 cars)
      1881 West Traverse Parkway Lehi UT                      210 feet (10 cars)


Signs

Signs proposed at the project site will conform to the City of Lehi code, and include wall, menu,
and directional signs. Colorful and visually interesting wall signs depicting the Swig Drinks logos
will be installed on the north and west elevations of the building. Free-standing menu boards are
proposed along the east side of the building between the building and drive-through lane. Signs
will be constructed with high-quality materials and properly installed under separate permits.

Operation

This location is anticipated to have five to seven employees and will accommodate drive-through
customers only. Swig does not use speaker boxes to take customer orders, rather staff members
are outside with handheld tablets taking orders that are immediately sent to the kitchen for
preparation. When customers arrive at the window, their order is ready, reducing the amount of
time spent in the queue and eliminating the noise created by a speaker box.

The typical business hours for Swig Drinks are 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., seven (7) days a week. Hours
of operation may be altered to best fit the needs of the particular community. This proposal requests
approval to operate 24-hours should the market demand continuous operation.



LEHI DEVELOPMENT CODE:

Section 09.050. Standard for Granting a Conditional Use

   A. Conditional use permits shall be granted or granted with conditions by the commission
      unless:

        1. The proposed conditional use will be detrimental or injurious to the health, safety, or
           general welfare of persons or properties within the vicinity of the proposed conditional
           use.

            Response: The proposal is to convert 1,204 square feet of an existing building with a
            drive-through lane to a drive-through soda shop. The site was constructed with the
            drive-through lane; however, the lane was not an integral part of the prior retail use.
            Establishing a drive-through use at the northern end of the multi-tenant building will
            not be detrimental to the other tenants within the structure as there is no access for
            those tenants at the rear (east side) of the building. The drive-through lane was
            constructed to accommodate nine (9) vehicles from the beginning of the queue to the
            proposed drive-through window. This amount of queuing space has proven adequate
            at similar stores.

            The neighboring building to the east is a credit union with a drive-through lane adjacent
            to the drive-through lane proposed for use with the Swig use. The drive-through lanes
            are separated by a landscape strip and curbing. The multi-tenant structure to the west,
            that shares the parking lot, has a similar building design with a drive-through restaurant
            at its southern end.

            Allowing the conversion of retail space to a drive-through soda shop and use of the
       existing drive-through lane will not be detrimental as there are similar uses in the
       vicinity and the site was previously designed to accommodate the use.

   2. The reasonably anticipated detrimental or injurious effects of the proposed conditional
      use cannot be mitigated by the imposition of reasonable conditions upon said
      proposed conditional use.

       Response: There are no anticipated detrimental or injurious effects related to the
       proposal to convert retail space to a drive-through soda shop. The site was designed
       to accommodate a drive-through use and each adjacent building is developed with a
       drive-through use.

B. A proposed conditional use shall be considered as detrimental or injurious to the health,
   safety, or general welfare of persons or properties within the vicinity of the proposed
   conditional use if:

   1. The use will cause unreasonable risks to the safety of persons or properties because
      of vehicular traffic, parking, or large gatherings of people;

       Response: The proposal to convert retail space to a drive-through restaurant use will
       not cause an unreasonable risk to the nearby people or properties. The proposed
       drive-through will resemble the Swig Store at 1881 W Traverse Parkway in Lehi and
       554 N Mill Road in Vineland, Utah; the drive-through lane wraps around the multi-
       tenant building. In both locations, this design has worked without causing
       unreasonable risk. The site and building in question were designed to accommodate
       a drive-through use and there is no walk-up or inside service proposed, limiting the
       maximum number of parking spaces to be used to the five to seven employees on
       shift.

   2. The use will unreasonably interfere with the lawful use of properties within the vicinity
      of the proposed conditional use;

       Response: The drive-through soda shop use will not interfere with the lawful use of
       nearby properties. The building to the west is a similar design with a drive-through
       restaurant and it operates without issue. The buildings share parking and the
       estimated maximum number of spaces to be used by drive-through shop is between
       five and seven, to accommodate staff. There is no walk-up or in-store service provided.
       The drive-through lane is separated from the property to the east by curbing and
       landscaping.

   3. The use will create an additional need for essential City or public services, including
      utilities, law enforcement, and fire prevention, which cannot be met without
      unreasonable efforts or expenditures of City or public resources;

       Response: Converting a portion of the multi-tenant building to a drive-through use will
       not require additional City or public services nor increase the demands on existing
       utilities or services; all utilities are existing and the soda shop use is not known for
       requiring law enforcement or fire prevention services.

   4. The use will be noncompliant with Chapters 12 and 13 of this Code;

       Response: Chapter 12 of the Lehi City Code regulates property development
       standards, and Chapter 13 regulates public facilities. The subject property has been
          developed since 2009. The property currently complies with Chapters 12 and 13;
          converting retail space to a drive-through, adding a drive-through service window, and
          utilizing the existing drive-through lane will maintain compliance.

       5. The use will present an unreasonable detriment or injury to the health, safety, or
          general welfare of persons or properties in the vicinity of the proposed conditional use;
          or

          Response: Allowing the conversion of retail space to a drive-through soda shop and
          use of the existing drive-through lane will not be detrimental as there are similar uses
          in the vicinity and the site was previously designed to accommodate the use.

          Establishing a drive-through use at the northern end of the multi-tenant building will
          not be detrimental to the other tenants within the structure as there is no access for
          those tenants at the rear (east side) of the building. The drive-through lane was
          constructed to accommodate 11 vehicles from the beginning of the queue to the
          proposed drive-through window. This amount of queuing space has proven adequate
          at similar stores.

          The neighboring building to the east is a credit union with a drive-through lane adjacent
          to the drive-through lane proposed for use with the Swig use. The drive-through lanes
          are separated by a landscape strip and curbing. The multi-tenant structure to the west,
          that shares the parking lot, has a similar building design with a drive-through restaurant
          at its southern end.

       6. The use will not be in harmony with the General Plan.

          Response: The requested drive-through use is in keeping with Lehi’s General Plan.
          Strategy 3 of the Commercial Element states, “City plans for and encourages a variety
          of commercial districts, densities and types within its boundaries; it should ensure that
          these new developments do not jeopardize existing commercial areas.” Adding a
          drive-through use within the existing shopping center will create more diversity. Adding
          a drive-through will provide an opportunity to obtain a quick convenient drink while
          shopping.



CONCLUSION

The proposed conversion of 1,204 square feet of retail space to a Swig drive-through soda shop
will enhance the existing shopping center and will not cause harm nor increase risk to adjacent
uses and properties. The above narrative demonstrates how the proposal meets the requirements
for a conditional use.
