                             Applicant        Gallow and Company’s
                         Meeting Date         March 13, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use and site plan
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        2501 North 1200 West
                          Project Area        0.86 acres
                       Existing Zoning        Commercial
              General Plan Designation        Commercial
                    Existing Land Use         Cleaned out former Japanese Auto
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North Commercial                Japanese Auto
                                                 South Commercial                Embold Apartments
                                                  East Commercial                Fort Knox Storage
                                                  West Commercial                UDOT Storage Yard
                     Date of DRC Review       February 26, 22025
                       Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris


                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval




Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.

                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest.

Section 37.020.6 Urban Tech Mixed Use Design Standards
2.   The maximum setback for buildings shall be 25 feet as measured from the property line.

  i. Off-street parking:

     1. Parking areas shall be located to the rear and sides of new buildings.

     2. Where possible, shared parking agreements shall be utilized to reduce the overall amount of off-street park-
     ing provided for multiple uses.

     3. It is encouraged that parking areas be constructed of a pervious hard surface material.

     4. Parking lots that front a public street shall be screened with landscaping or a four-foot tall wood or simu-
     lated wood fence.

Section 37.060. Parking Standards.

    1. Parking areas that front a street shall be screened with a landscaped buffer (see Figure 186). The landscaped
    buffer shall include the following:

         a.   A four-foot-tall horizontal slat wood fence with two-inch gaps between slats; and

         b.   Trees, shrubs, and grasses to screen the view of parked cars.

    2.   Changes in grade, planting, or berms shall be provided to reduce the visual impact of large parking areas.

    3. The following minimum landscaped setback and separation shall be required for all surface parking lots,
    unless otherwise approved by the Planning Commission:

         a.   20 feet from public road rights-of-way; and

         b.   ten feet from perimeter property lines.

    4. Landscaping of parking lot islands and peninsulas shall consist of water-wise landscaping and shall include
    trees, shrubs, ground cover vegetation, and other attractive plant materials. The landscaping shall also include an
    automatic sprinkling or drip irrigation system and a border to separate the plants from the parking lot to protect
    the planting area.




February 10, 1998          Property came into the City as part of the Lehi Block Plant Annexation




The applicant requests approval of the Cyprus Credit Union conditional use drive-through and exceptions to the set-
back requirements. The proposed Cyprus Credit Union is located at 2501 North 1200 West in the Commercial Zone.
This parcel represents the southern portion of what was previously Japanese Auto.

The Site Plan received review by City Staff to ensure compliance with Development Code and Design Standard re-
quirements. The applicant meets the requirements for most of the site design. They are requesting an exception to two
of the requirements related to setbacks. Drive throughs are conditional uses in the Commercial Zone also requiring


                                                                                                                       2
approval from the Planning Commission.

Drive Through Conditional Use
The proposed drive-throughs for the bank will be located behind the building and include two lanes. Staff did not have
any concerns related to stacking, access, or anything else with the location and size of these drive-throughs.

Setback Exceptions
The proposed site plan does not meet two setback requirements. The building is further than 25 feet from the property
line. The building is oriented towards the corner as required in the Development Code but setback further partially
due to existing utilities in the corner.

The applicant also seeks an exception to the requirement that parking lots have a minimum 20-foot setback from the
public right of way. The site plan has a 15-foot setback, the applicant tried to meet the requirement but the maximum
they could provide was 15-feet.

The Planning Commission should determine if they allow the exceptions to these setback requirements.

DRC Comments
The Reviewing Departments had five redline comments. The applicant will submit updated plans that meet the re-
maining requirements outlined in the comments.




This site plan exception and conditional use request is an administrative item. This means that it must be approved if
it meets the Code. The Planning Commission has some level of discretion with approving the exceptions. The Planning
Commission may also place reasonable conditions on the drive-through conditional use. Conditions should be directly
related to impacts that the drive-through may have on the surrounding community.

The public may speak to this item. Comments should be related to the drive through and impacts that the drive through
will have on the area.




The Planning Commission may move to approve or approve with conditions the proposed conditional use and
may approve or deny the proposed exceptions to the site plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible
findings include:

1.   The proposed drive through will/ will not have significant impact on the surrounding community or traffic.
2.   The proposed exceptions will/will not have a significant impact on the walkability, visual appeal, and safety of
     the area.
3.   The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
     in the vicinity.
4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                    3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                       February 26, 2025

                                                 Cyprus Credit Union Site Plan
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Galloway & Company- requests review of the Cyprus Credit Union Site Plan and Conditional Use for a Drive Through
located at 2501 North 1200 West in the Commercial zone.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Taylor Smith and Devin Lujan
Date of Plans Reviewed: 02/18/25
Time Start: 1:40pm
Time End: 1:45pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Provide detail for 3-phase ct metering. Single phase is shown.
General: There will be additional power cost for off-site infrastructure. Off-site line extension work required to serve this
site. (see Lehi Power Line extension Policy).
General: P.O.A. is E4-J43; approximately 350 ft. north. May want to consider other options requiring easements.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
2. On site plan, CS101, include the P.I. connection size to the utility connection table.
Shelbey – Public Works: see prior to precon comments.
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
3. An exception will be required for the building setback that exceeds the maximum 25-foot setback from the public street
4. An exception will be required for the parking lot to be closer than 20' from 1200 West.
5. Provide elevations for the North and West Elevations of the building. Building elevations were not included in this
      submittal. Be sure to include them with every submittal

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED (FULL)


ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
   must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
   process.
5. Provide a title report to be reviewed by Staff.
6. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
7. Provide signed easement verification sheet.
8. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
   Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
   agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
9. Provide approval letter from the State (UDEQ) for Class V UIC Injection Well.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                       February 26, 2025

10. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov. Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
11. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
12. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
13. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.

THIS ITEM IS REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 13th

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
