             THE EXCHANGE PHASE 16 PUD PLAT AMENDMENT
                                PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant       Mint Architecture
                         Meeting Date        March 13, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose        Approval of a proposed plat amendment
                              Location       Approximately 1500 North 3600 West
     Existing General Plan Designation       Neighborhood Commercial
                       Existing Zoning       Neighborhood Commercial
                    Existing Land Use        Vacant
                 Number of Lots/Units        2 lots
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North R-3                   Common area for the Exchange
                                                South Neighborhood          Future Exchange Business Center
                                                       Commercial
                                                 East Public Facility       Future Alpine School District school
                                                 West R-3                   The Exchange Phase 16
                    Date of DRC Review       February 26, 2025
                      Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                            REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.340. Vacating, Altering, or Amending a Recorded Subdivision Plat. (Amended 01/23/24)

A. The Planning Commission, following review by the Reviewing Departments, shall be the Land Use Authority
for approving any proposed vacation, alteration, or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision
plat, or any road or lot contained in a subdivision plat. The Planning Commission shall follow all requirements and
procedures identified in Utah State Code Section 10-9a-608.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

October 29, 2019           Property recorded as part of the Exchange Phase 16 PUD.

May 23, 2024               The Planning Commission approved the Exchange Business Park Concept Plan.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval of the Exchange Phase 16 PUD plat amendment. The plat would create a new
lot within Parcel A. This is to facilitate the construction of the second phase of the Exchange Business Center. The
applicant has stated they intend to come back and amend the plat in a series of phases to create individual commer-
cial lots. There is no minimum lot size requirement for the Neighborhood Commercial zone, and the plat still main-
tains 60-feet of frontage.

The DRC made a general comment for future phases regarding the temporary retention easement currently called
out on the existing plat. The temporary retention easement was for the construction of the Exchange Phase 16 PUD.
Now that the subdivision has been constructed, the temporary retention easement is no longer required. Staff has
informed the applicant that when a buyer is interested in placing a building there, the easement will need to be
removed on the next phase of the plat prior to a building permit being issued.

DRC Comments
There were 7 redline comments from the DRC, including:
1. Add note to plat: all commercial sites developed within these lots shall be required to provide reciprocal cross
    access to adjoining lots.
2. It seems it would be cleaner to have Lot 1 and Lot 2 for now instead of Parcel A, and Lot 2 can be further
    subdivided in the future as needed.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed plat amendment. Any motion should include
findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed subdivision meets/does not meet the requirements of the Development Code.
    2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public meeting.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 26, 2025

                                           The Exchange Phase 16 Plat Amendment
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Mint Architecture- requests review of a Plat Amendment for the Exchange Phase 16 located at approximately 1500 North
3600 West, subdividing Parcel A for first phase of development.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Michael Budge, Brooke Moore, Jake Hone
Date of Plans Reviewed: 02/18/25
Time Start: 3:00 PM
Time End: 3:10 PM


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Show existing Lehi Power Easement
2. Show easements required to tie circuits through from residential for loop feed requirement. Internal easements may be
    required.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
3. Modify note 2 to read:
    Permanent storm drain detention facility to be owned and maintained by the owner(s) of the property and not to be
    altered without approval by Lehi City Council and City Engineer
4. Add note to plat:
    All commercial sites developed within these lots shall be required to provide reciprocal cross access to adjoining lots.
5. Show and provide description of sewer and water line easements in favor of Lehi City
6. Remove this dimension and future ROW line
Luke- Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
7. It seems it would be cleaner to have Lot 1 and Lot 2 for now instead of Parcel A, and Lot 2 could be further subdivided
    in the future as needed.
A. Future consideration: The temporary retention easement will need to be removed prior to a building being placed on
    the easement.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 13TH.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)

PRIOR TO RECORDING
1. Send a digital copy of the plat to the Planner prior to printing for County review.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
