                       INVERNESS EAST SIDE GRADING PERMIT
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant       DR Horton
                            Meeting Date       March 13, 2025
                Requested Action/Purpose       Public hearing and recommendation of a proposed grading permit
                                Location       Approximately 4800 North Suncrest Drive
                         Disturbed Acres       Approximately 197 acres
                         Existing Zoning       Planned Community
                General Plan Designation       Open Space, Public Facility, Medium Density Residential, Low
                                               Density Residential, Very low Density Residential
                       Existing Land Use       Undeveloped Hillside
                     Date of DRC Review        February 19, 2025
                        Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission        Public hearing and recommendation
                            City Council       Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 12-B.050 Grading Permit Issuance.

        (a) When considering the approval of the grading permit the Public Works Director, Reviewing Departments,
        and (when applicable), Planning Commission and City Council, will verify that all of the following criteria are
        met (in addition to other applicable requirements of this code and other city codes):
            (i) Approval of the proposal will not pose a threat to or be detrimental to the public health, safety, and
                  welfare, nor be materially detrimental to fish and wildlife habitat and/or water resources as determined
                  by an expert consultant.
            (ii) The proposal is not in a sensitive lands area, as defined by Sections 12.060 (J) (K) of the Lehi City
                  Development Code.
            (iii) All subdivisions plats and/or site plans must have at least a preliminary approval prior to issuance of a
                  grading permit
EPORT ANALYSIS
 PROPERTY HISTORY

December 11, 2012         City Council approved the Micron Area Plan

April 8, 2022             This property came into Lehi as the Micron East Annexation

August 23, 2022           City Council approved the Skye Area Plan amending the Micron Area Plan

September 19, 2023        City Council approved the Skye Area Plan Second Amendment

June 11, 2024             City Council approved the Skye Plat C Preliminary Subdivision




Inverness East Side Grading Permit
     REPORT ANALYSIS
The applicant requests review and recommendation of the Inverness East Side Grading Permit on approximately 197
acres located at approximately 4800 North Suncrest Drive. The proposed grading covers the approved Skye
Preliminary Plat C area. They submitted a slightly different layout than the approved Preliminary Subdivision. It
removed a cul-de-sac and some lots from a steep slope area. The changes are minor in nature and do not impact the
ability to approve this grading permit based on the approved Preliminary Subdivision. The changes can be approved
with the future final subdivisions.

The applicant provided a narrative explaining that there will be about 110,000 yards of cut and 151,000 yards of fill.
They will try to use all of the material on site and do not need an off-site haul route. They anticipate that it will take
24 to 36 months to complete all of the grading.

They state that there will be a water truck on site to control the dust as well as the track out, fencing, signage, and
other Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) requirements.

The DRC reviewed the proposed grading permit and had three comments. The Planning Comments were more
informational feedback for the applicant.

      1.   Include information on the reseeding (method and seed mix). You can use the Traverse Mountain Seed Mix.



     SCOPE OF APPROVAL
Grading permits are administrative items. The Planning Commission and ultimately City Council help ensure that the
applicant is meeting the requirements of the Code and not excessively impacting the natural environment of the City
as outlined in Chapters 12A and 12B of the Development Code.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or approve with modifications the proposed grading
permit. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed grading is/is not consistent with the approved Skye Preliminary Plat C.
2.    The proposed grading activities will have none or limited hauling of material from the site.
3.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements in
      the vicinity.
4.    The proposed use will be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies of the Lehi
      City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
5.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Inverness East Side Grading Permit
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 19, 2025

                                                  Inverness East Side Grading
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

DR Horton- requests review of the Inverness East Side Grading on approximately 197.12-acres.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Scott Bishop
Date of Plans Reviewed: 02/10/25
Time Start: 1:07pm
Time End: 1:17pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No Comments
Garion – Fire: No Comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No Comments
James – Parks:
It was discussed to fill some of this ravine for the trailhead/park. Will that be done with the design/construction of that or
during this grading phase?
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No Comments
Shelbey – Public Works: Update SWPPP to include this prior to precon
Gary E. – Engineering:
1. Include information on the reseeding (method and seed mix). You can use the Traverse Mountain Seed Mix.
Luke- Traffic: No Comments
Mike-Planning:
2. Can we look at the crossing of this ravine to keep it more open/natural?
3. How will the trail under the powerlines work crossing the ravine? Some switchbacks may be necessary to get up and
    down through here. Maybe the trail may need to go around (see Bluebeam plans for idea)


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 13, 2025

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)

ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
   must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
5. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
   Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com). More information available at https://www.lehi-
   ut.gov/departments/water/storm-water/
6. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
   monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
   Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
   Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
7. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 19, 2025

8.   Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
     scheduled.
9.   Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
      Inverness East Side Grading Permit Narrative

1. The project is a hillside development and must be graded for sewer and storm
   drain gravity flows

       a. Approximately 110k yards of cut and 151k yards of fill

       b. Significant efforts will be made to keep all material on site. There may be
          some ‘bad material’ that we will need to haul off

       c. Completion date 24 to 36 months after approval

       d. Water truck on site to control dust

       e. Track out and SWPPP will be in place – fencing and signage to keep
          unauthorized people offsite

2. Do not disturb areas will be marked

3. Vicinity map attached

4. Legal description attached

5. Map of subject area – attached

6. No off site haul routes needed

7. No retaining walls with height above 4’ expected to be needed

8. No existing stream or water course

9. SWPPP will be done with Silverleaf prior to pre-con

10. Utah State Notice of Intent will be in place prior to pre-con
