                       WHITMORE GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        James Whitmore
                                  Meeting Date         March 13, 2025
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation for an amendment to the General
                                                       Plan
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          Approximately 4150 North Digital Drive
                                      Acreage          2.41 acres
                              Existing Zoning          Planned Community
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          Commercial
               Proposed Land Use Designation           Light Industrial
                            Existing Land Use          Undeveloped
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North PC               Undeveloped
                                                        South Commercial      Adobe
                                                         East PC              Entrata
                                                         West I-15            I-15
                             Date of DRC Review        February 12, 2025
                               Assigned Planner        Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval
The Planning Commission should consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a General Plan
amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


 APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT Provide for a wider range of commercial uses, including local and regional
scale development, and bike and pedestrian accessibility to commercial uses throughout Lehi.




Whitmore General Plan Amendment
Strategy 3 Encourage diverse commercial uses that will serve the needs of the neighborhood, city, and region.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

July 26, 1997     The property came into the City as part of the Deerfield Annexation


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation on a proposed General Plan Amendment from Commercial to
Light Industrial. The existing zoning of Planned Community does not allow any land uses because the property is
not part of an area plan. The applicant wants to change the General Plan designation from Commercial to Light
Industrial in order to use their property at this time. This site does not have water, sewer, or power utilities in close
proximity and the cost to extend these lines to service this site is prohibitive. The Light Industrial Use allows for uses
like vehicle storage that do not require utilities. Additionally, other properties along Digital Drive are zoned Light
Industrial.

The DRC had a comment about the future Transit Oriented Development (TOD) in the area and the surrounding
residential as noted below:

    1.   Changing the General Plan on this parcel would set a precedent altering the whole area, since all of the
         surrounding parcels are designated as Commercial. The subject property is adjacent to property owned by
         Adobe to the south and their existing Class A office building. It's also highly visible from the freeway and
         serves as part of the gateway into Lehi City and Utah County. Future transit will serve this area, with a stop
         planned less than 1/2 mile away. It is also only 700' from one of Traverse Mtn's residential neighborhoods,
         and there could be noise, light and dust impacts from light industrial uses. For these reasons, it seems a
         better fit to leave the property in the current Commercial designation.

The Planning Commission may also want to consider the need for Light Industrial and Heavy Commercial uses in
the City. The demand for Office Warehouse and vehicle storage uses remains strong while the areas of the City that
allow these uses remains limited. This site has a significant grade difference between it and the Traverse Mountain
residential. The site also is in close proximity to I-15 and a future highway interchange. This area might work well
for higher intensity uses.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

General Plan Amendments are legislative items meaning the Planning Commission can provide a positive or negative
recommendation. City Council ultimately can approve or deny the proposed change.

The public may speak to this item. They can share why they are in support or against the proposed change.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendment to the General
Plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed amendment will allow the applicant to use their property at this time.
    2.   The proposed amendment will allow for high intensity uses in an area of the City that is close to the freeway
         and a future interchange.
    3.   The proposed amendment does not fit into the future TOD that will be in this area of the City.




Whitmore General Plan Amendment
   4.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provisions
        of the General Plan and its various elements.
   5.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not consistent with the land uses and zoning of nearby and
        adjoining properties.
   6.   The proposed General Plan amendment will/will not have a substantial adverse effect on surrounding prop-
        erty.
   7.   The affected site is/is not physically suitable in terms of design, location, shape, size, operating characteris-
        tics, and the provision of public services to accommodate any potential future uses, including all landscap-
        ing, loading areas, open spaces, parking areas, setbacks, buffering/screening, walls, fences, yards, and other
        required features.
   8.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Whitmore General Plan Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                        February 12, 2025

                                             Whitmore General Plan Amendment
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

James Whitmore- requests review of the Whitmore General Plan Amendment from Commercial to Light Industrial on 2.41-
acres located at approximately 4150 North Digital Drive.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: James Whitmore
Date of Plans Reviewed: 02/04/25
Time Start: 3:03pm
Time End: 3:13pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. No capacity is available on existing power infrastructure in this area. A significant line extension will be required to
    serve this location.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
2. Changing the General Plan on this parcel would set a precedent altering the whole area, since all of the surrounding
    parcels are designated as Commercial. The subject property is adjacent to property owned by Adobe to the south and
    their existing Class A office building. It's also highly visible from the freeway and serves as part of the gateway into
    Lehi City and Utah County. Future transit will serve this area, with a stop planned less than 1/2 mile away. It is also
    only 700' from one of Traverse Mtn's residential neighborhoods, and there could be noise, light and dust impacts from
    light industrial uses. For these reasons, it seems a better fit to leave the property in the current Commercial
    designation.
3. The City Council may consider a development agreement to allow light industrial uses in the meantime until utilities
    are available.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 13, 2025




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
