                 OAK CREEK HOLLOW PLAT B PLAT AMENDMENT
                                PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant       Bronsin Haueter
                         Meeting Date        March 13, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose        Approval of a proposed plat amendment
                              Location       969 East Oak Creek Drive
     Existing General Plan Designation       VLDR
                       Existing Zoning       RA-1
                    Existing Land Use        Single Family home
                 Number of Lots/Units        1
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North RA-1                  Undeveloped
                                                South RA-1                  Single Family Home
                                                 East R-1-8                 Single Family Home
                                                 West RA-1                  Single Family Home
                    Date of DRC Review       February 26, 2025
                      Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                            REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.340. Vacating, Altering, or Amending a Recorded Subdivision Plat. (Amended 01/23/24)

A. The Planning Commission, following review by the Reviewing Departments, shall be the Land Use Authority
for approving any proposed vacation, alteration, or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision
plat, or any road or lot contained in a subdivision plat. The Planning Commission shall follow all requirements and
procedures identified in Utah State Code Section 10-9a-608.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 25, 1979     Property annexed into Lehi City as part of the Jones Annexation

April 27, 2000    Planning Commission approves the Oak Creek Hollow Plat A subdivision


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of Oak Creek Hollow Plat B, a plat amendment dividing lot eight of Oak Creek
Hollow Plat A in two. This will add one additional lot to the subdivision.

The exiting lot is 1.44 acres with a single home. The proposed subdivision will create two equal lots of 0.72 acres.
This subdivision meets the minimum lot size requirement for the RA-1 zone.

As shown on Oak Creek Hollow Plat A, the north side of the property is deemed unbuildable due to the natural
terrain. This unbuildable area is also shown on Oak Creek Hollow Plat B. The subdivided lot allows for the con-
struction of a new home on the southern side in a limited area.

The Development Review Committee (DRC) reviewed the proposed plat amendment and had five redline comments
including this comment from power:

    1.   A line extension and equipment upgrade is required to serve this parcel


 POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed plat amendment. Any motion should include
findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed subdivision meets the requirements of the RA-1 zone.
    2.   The proposed subdivision meets/does not meet the requirements of the Development Code.
    3.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public meeting.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 26, 2025

                                                    Oak Creek Hollow Plat B
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Bronsin Hauter- requests approval of the Oak Hollow Plat B, a 2-lot subdivision with an existing home located at 969 East
Oak Creek Drive.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Tony Trane
Date of Plans Reviewed: 02/18/25
Time Start: 1:16pm
Time End: 1:23pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. A line extension and equipment upgrade is required to serve this parcel
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
2. Add distance from front property line to the un-buildable area.
3. Include on plat that it is in the RA-1 zone.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E.– Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
4. Use template provided for subdivision
            a. Include in title block that it is amending lot 8 of the Oak Creek Hollow Subdivision and include that it is a
                 residential subdivision
5. The front setback is 20' to a dwelling and 25' to a garage. Update on the setback diagram.


PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)

ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
   improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
   supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
   necessary supplies for the development.
5. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
   process.
6. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
7. Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).
8. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
   monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
   Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
   Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 26, 2025

STAFF
9. Address any comments or conditions from Planning Commission approval of the preliminary
10. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled
11. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
4. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 13th

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
Narrative

To: Lehi City

Subject: Oak Creek Hollow Plat ‘B’ Development


The property is approximately located at 969 E Oak Creek Drive has a single home on a
1.44 acre lot. The proposal is to add an additional lot for a 2-lot subdivision with the
existing home. The property is proposed to be split into 2 equal lots of 0.72 acres which
is size appropriate for the RA-1 Zoning.

All utilities mains are located along the frontage so the only utility improvements will be
the additional laterals for the proposed lot.

All the road improvements are complete along the frontage as well. The lot does slope
off the back to the hollow and the intent is to build the home close to the frontage so not
to impact that area.

We feel this is an appropriate request for this area and will not have a negative impact.
