             FISHER MAIN STREET GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant        Peggy Fisher
                                Meeting Date         March 27, 2025
                     Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation for an amendment to the General
                                                     Plan
                              Decision Type          Legislative
                                   Location          1680 West Main Street
                                    Acreage          0.3 acres
                            Existing Zoning          TH-5
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          NC (Neighborhood Commercial)
             Proposed Land Use Designation           MDR
                          Existing Land Use          Undeveloped
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North R-2             Single family residential
                                                      South R-1-12         Main Street & single family residen-
                                                                           tial
                                                       East A-1            Single family residential
                                                       West C              Gas Station
                           Date of DRC Review        March 12, 2025
                             Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                                  City Council       Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval
The Planning Commission should consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a General Plan
amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoin-
         ing properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


 APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (MDR)




Fisher Main Street General Plan Amendment
The Medium Density Residential (MDR) classification is used to identify and encourage the development of a va-
riety of moderate density housing types, including single family dwellings, two-family dwellings, and townhomes,
with an overall density not to exceed 6 dwelling units per acre.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

December 5, 2006           The property came into the City as part of the Larson Farms Annexation


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation on a proposed General Plan Amendment from Neighborhood
Commercial to Medium Density Residential on 0.3 acres of property located at 1680 West Main Street. The appli-
cant is interested in just developing one additional home on the property. This General Plan amendment would be
the first step towards that and would be followed by a subsequent zone change and 2-lot subdivision.

The proposed General Plan amendment does not restrict the possibility of additional neighborhood commercial or
residential in the future, but the applicant’s desire is to build a home they can move into. They have been living in
the existing home on the property and would like to stay in the neighborhood.

The DRC had five comments that were mainly informational on the proposed General Plan amendment, including
the following:

    1.   8'' sewer main ends at this location. Extension of the sewer main will be to service new lot.
    2.   Applicant will need to provide a survey/legal description for the portion of the property that will be amended
         and eventually subdivided off.

Please consider the DRC comments in the motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

General Plan Amendments are legislative items meaning the Planning Commission can provide a positive or nega-
tive recommendation. City Council ultimately can approve or deny the proposed change.

The public may speak to this item. They can share why they are in support or against the proposed change.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendment to the General
Plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed amendment to the Lehi City General Plan is/is not detrimental to the public health, safety,
         and welfare of Lehi City.
    2.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provisions
         of the General Plan and its various elements.
    3.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not consistent with the land uses and zoning of nearby and
         adjoining properties.
    4.   The proposed General Plan amendment will/will not have a substantial adverse effect on surrounding
         property.
    5.   The affected site is/is not physically suitable in terms of design, location, shape, size, operating character-
         istics, and the provision of public services to accommodate any potential future uses, including all land-




Fisher Main Street General Plan Amendment
         scaping, loading areas, open spaces, parking areas, setbacks, buffering/screening, walls, fences, yards, and
         other required features.
    6.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Fisher Main Street General Plan Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         March 12, 2025

                                         Fisher Main Street General Plan Amendment
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Peggy Fisher- requests review of the Fisher Main Street General Plan amendment, changing the designation on 0.3 acres
of property located at 1680 West Main Street from NC to MDR.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Peggy Fisher, Kim Fisher
Date of Plans Reviewed: 02/27/25
Time Start: 1:52 pm
Time End: 2:03 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. On 0.3 Acre only? (General: Line extension will be required to serve this area.)
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
2. 8'' sewer main ends at this location. Extension of the sewer main will be to service new lot.
3. 14'' PI main, 8'' culinary main in 1700 west.
4. 8'' pi main with hydrant ends at property line on main street.
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
5. Applicant will need to provide a survey/legal description for the portion of the property that will be amended and
    eventually subdivided off.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 27, 2025.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
