                                      TRONSON ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                     Applicant         Brad Tronson
                                 Meeting Date          March 27, 2025
                      Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                       change
                              Decision Type            Legislative
                                   Location            901 West State Street
                                    Acreage            0.91 acres
                            Existing Zoning            R-1-8
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation            Heavy Commercial
               Proposed Zoning Designation             Heavy Commercial
                          Existing Land Use            Single family residential
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use              North R-1-8               Single family residential
                                                        South MU                 Office/warehouse
                                                         East MU                 State Street
                                                         West R-1-8              Single family residential
                            Date of DRC Review         March 5, 2025
                              Assigned Planner         Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                           Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                   City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.

Section 05.020. Zoning Districts Purpose

M. The Heavy Commercial (C-H) District is intended to provide appropriate locations for warehousing, auto and truck
services, and light manufacturing that do not impact existing and planned residential areas. This district supports oppor-
tunities for commercial uses that contribute to the local tax base, and to create high quality areas for businesses that are
more impactful to surrounding areas than retail and office uses. Typical uses include office/warehouse, light manufac-




Tronson Zone Change
turing, auto and truck service and repair, distribution centers, and some retail/office


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

HEAVY COMMERCIAL (C-H)

The Heavy Commercial (C-H) classification is intended to provide appropriate locations for warehousing, auto and
truck services, and light manufacturing that do not impact existing and planned residential areas. Typical uses include
office/warehouse, light manufacturing, auto and truck service and repair, distribution centers, and some retail/ office.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872               This property is part of the original incorporated boundaries of Lehi City.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of the Tronson Zone change from R-1-8 to Heavy Commercial at
901 W State Street. The proposed zoning is consistent with the General Plan Designation of Heavy Commercial for the
area.

The applicant is hoping to construct a multi-tenant office warehouse building in the future. Additionally, they plan to
and would be able to move the outdoor storage of materials for their construction business from approximately 635 W
State Street to this location to resolve a pending Code Enforcement issue.

The DRC had no comments on the proposed zone change.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative items which gives some discretion to the Planning Commission and City Council. This
zone change matches the General Plan which would require more articulation of reasons for denying it.

The public can speak to this item. Comments that support or oppose the change are most helpful when tied to specific
concerns that will impact the neighborhood and community.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Tronson Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          March 5 2025

                                                      Tronson Zone Change
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Brad Tronson- requests review of the Tronson Zone Change on 0.91 acres of property located at 901 West State Street,
changing the zoning from R-1-8 to Heavy Commercial.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Brad Tronson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 02/20/25
Time Start: 1:36 pm
Time End: 1:39 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S.– Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey– Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments

General Comments:
   1. A line extension and equipment upgrade is required to serve this parcel.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 27, 2025.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                               Application for General Plan Amendment
                                        901 W State Street, Lehi

Application Submittal Requirements

1. We are requesting a zoning change for the property located at 901 W State St from Residential R-1-8
use to heavy commercial use as designated in the General Plan.

(a). Reason and Justification. To construct a multi tenant office warehouse not allowed in the current
residential zone. Currently the properties to the south are already zoned for commercial use as well as
some on the south west side of the property as well as the majority of the properties on the east side of
State St. (See Map )

(b). Consistency with Goals and Policies. This amendment is to change the current zoning to the zoning
designated in the General Plan. This change would be in line with the General Plan by promoting quality
sustainable commercial business opportunities in the area that would be consistent with how the
surrounding business entities operate.

(c). Compatibility. This new change would be consistent with General Plan outlined by Lehi City as well
as with the uses of the neighboring properties.

(d). Effect of Proposal on Surrounding Area. Minimal impact would be felt in the surrounding area since
few things would change even with the addition of a new structure on the property. Traffic would be
impacted only slightly since the property is located on State St between two freeway entrances/exits
and is a self contained property. No need to drive through residential areas or adjacent businesses to
gain access. Completion of the project would only add to the visual aesthetics of the business
community on the north end of State St.

(e). Community Benefit. Offering more sustainable business opportunities in northern Lehi. It will
improve property values as well as additional amenities for the economical growth in the community.

2. Supporting documents: See Attached Utah County Parcel Map as well as Google Earth Map

3. Legal description for 901 W State St Lehi, UT 84043 See attached Utah County Property
Information.
