                                       WARNER ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                     Applicant         Clodbuster Co Trust
                                 Meeting Date          March 27, 2025
                      Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                       change
                              Decision Type            Legislative
                                   Location            7491 W 8179 N (Approximately 750 E 800 S)
                                    Acreage            7.70 acres
                            Existing Zoning            A-5
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation            LI
               Proposed Zoning Designation             LI
                          Existing Land Use            Single family residential/Undeveloped
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use              North LI                  Railway Corridor
                                                        South A-5                Pioneer Crossing
                                                         East A-5                Questar Regulator Station
                                                         West A-5                Single family residen-
                                                                                 tial/undeveloped
                            Date of DRC Review         March 5, 2025
                              Assigned Planner         Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                           Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                   City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.

Section 05.020. Zoning Districts Purpose.

R. The purpose of the Light Industrial District (LI) District is to identify and provide locations for light industrial uses
that produce no appreciable impact on adjacent properties, a desire for clean and attractive industrial locations, and to
provide employment opportunities for residents of Lehi City.




Warner Zone Change
  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

LIGHT INDUSTRIAL (LI)

The Light Industrial (LI) classification identifies and provides locations for light industrial uses that produce no appre-
ciable impact on adjacent properties and seek a clean and attractive industrial setting. Uses allowed in the LI classifica-
tion may include automobile and truck rental, auto and truck repair, furniture manufacture and repair, tire distribution
and retail sales, upholstery shops, industrial assembly, freight terminal, warehousing, moving and storage, and light
manufacturing activity.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

January 20, 1999            Property came into the City as part of the Mill Pond Annexation


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of the Warner Zone change from A-5 to Light Industrial. The pro-
posed zoning is consistent with the General Plan Designation of Light Industrial for the area. The applicant is now con-
templating selling the property and would like it to be zoned to conform to the General Plan before they sell it.

The larger property has been previously used for agricultural and some construction related activities that were in viola-
tion of the Code, but they have cleaned up the property in the last year to bring it back into conformity with City regula-
tions. The smaller portion of the proposed zone change has remained a single family residential home.

The DRC had no comments on the proposed zone change.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative items which gives some discretion to the Planning Commission and City Council. This
zone change matches the General Plan which would require more articulation of reasons for denying it.

The public can speak to this item. Comments that support or oppose the change are most helpful when tied to specific
concerns that will impact the neighborhood and community.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.



Warner Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          March 5 2025

                                                      Warner Zone Change
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Clodbuster Co Trust- requests review of the Warner Zone Change on 7.70 acres of property located at approximately 7491
W 8179 N (750 E 800 S), changing the zoning from A-5 to Light Industrial.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: None
Date of Plans Reviewed: 02/21/25
Time Start: 1:47 pm
Time End: 1:50 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S.– Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey– Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments

General Comments:
   1. A line extension and equipment upgrade is required to serve this parcel.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 27, 2025.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
