                                    COSTCO FUEL EXPANSION
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Costco Wholesale
                          Meeting Date        March 27, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Extension of development approval
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        198 North 1200 East
                           Project Area       0.5 acres (fuel area) 13.78 acres (total site)
                       Existing Zoning        Commercial
     General Plan Land Use Designation        Commercial
                     Existing Land Use        Costco Shopping Center
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North R-1-10                   Single Family Homes
                                                 South Commercial               Retail/Restaurants
                                                  East American Fork            Commercial
                                                  West Commercial               Lowe’s
                     Date of DRC Review       March 12, 2025
                       Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission       Final approval
                            City Council      No action required


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 10.130. Extension of Development Approval. (New 07/28/09; Amended 07/10/12)
    A. Up to a one-year extension of a development approval may be granted by the Planning Commission or City
        Council, as applicable, based on the body that granted the original approval, upon a finding that special
        circumstances exist that warrant such an extension.

    B. All requests for an extension are subject to the following:

        1.   An extension shall be requested by the applicant within 30 days of the expiration of the original
             development approval. However, the approval of an extension will be based on the date of the original
             approval, not on the date the application for extension is filed or approved.

        2.   Requests for an extension of a development approval shall be made in writing and shall set forth the
             reasons why an extension is necessary and should be granted.

        3.   Where bonding is deemed necessary as part of the development approval, a new bond will be required
             to take into account any changes in costs to match prevailing conditions for the construction and
             installation of all required improvements.

        4.   All requests for an extension shall be reviewed by the Reviewing Departments prior to approval by the
             approving body. The Reviewing Departments shall consider the following factors and make appropriate
             recommendations to the approving body:
             (a) whether the original conditions of approval are still appropriate based on current requirements of
             the Lehi City Development Code and the Lehi City Design Standards and Public Improvement
             Specifications Manual;
             (b) whether any ordinance changes have occurred or are being considered that may affect the activity
             or project authorized by the development approval;
             (c) whether any changes in infrastructure or surrounding land uses have occurred that would affect the
             activity or project authorized by the development approval;




Costco Fuel Expansion
               (d) the length of time since the original approval was granted; and
               (e) any other applicable factors that would affect the viability of the previous approval.

         5.    If the Reviewing Departments determine that changes to the approved plans are necessary to meet
               current standards, and the applicant is willing to make the changes, an extension may be granted subject
               to the changes.

    C. If a final plat which covers only a portion of an approved preliminary plat is recorded within the two -year
       time limit or extension thereof, the validity of the unrecorded portion of the preliminary plat shall
       automatically be extended for two years from the date of recording the final plat

Section 11.250. Site Plan Approval Process. (Am 5/22/01; 08/13/02; 11/09/04)
The review and approval process for a Site Plan shall be as follows:
Permitted Uses (2) Site Plans associated with a permitted use and with a total valuation, including building and all
associated improvements, greater than $500,000 dollars shall require approval by the Planning Commission,
following a review by the DRC. The Planning Commission may require that the approval of a Site Plan be forwarded
to the City Council if they determine a project is likely to have a significant impact on traffic, environmental quality,
lighting, compatibility of uses, or the health, safety, or general welfare of the surrounding properties, property values,
or residents. The Planning Commission and or City Council may hold a public hearing on any project likely to have
a significant impact on the surrounding property, values or residents.

Chapter 37. Definitions.
Convenience Store - A retail establishment offering for sale prepackaged food products, fast foods, snacks, beverages
and household items.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

September 8, 2018           The DRC approved the Costco Fuel Expansion. This approval expired in 2021.

June 8, 2023                The Planning Commission re-approved the Expansion. This approval expires
                            on June 8, 2025


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests a one-year extension for a fuel expansion approved in 2023 by the Planning Commission
due to unforeseen permit and budget delays. The previously approved expansion of the Costco Fuel station
includes adding six additional fuel pumps and one new underground storage tank. This falls under the permitted
use for Convenience Stores, with Gasoline Sales. Costco fits under the definition of Convenience Store in Chapter
37 of the Lehi City Development Code.

A similar expansion was previously approved by the DRC in 2018. The applicant did not get the expansion built
before the approval expired, and with increasing costs the expansion exceeded the 500,000-dollar limit allowed for
staff level approval at that time, requiring the Planning Commission to approve it. Extensions also require approval
from the original approval body of the site plan.

Approval of the extension will give them one additional year to begin work on the expansion.

The applicant stated in their past narrative that they have consistently observed reduced wait times and congestion
in areas where they have expanded the fuel pumps.

The DRC reviewed the proposed expansion and had three redline comments, please consider including all
comments in your motion.



  SCOPE OF APPROVAL


Costco Fuel Expansion
Site plans are an administrative item, and the fuel center is a permitted use in the zone. This means that the Planning
Commission must approve it if it meets Code. The Planning Commission also may only require what is required by
the Development Code. They may make suggestions but the applicant only needs to meet Code requirements.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or approve with modifications based on Code requirements the
proposed Costco Fuel Expansion Extension of Approval. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings
include:

    1.   The proposed fuel expansion is a permitted use in the commercial zone.
    2.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and
         policies of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
    3.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate
         size and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that
         it will not be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
    4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public meeting.




Costco Fuel Expansion
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 12, 2025

                                                      Costco Fuel Expansion
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Costco- requests approval of an extension of approval for the Costco Fuel Expansion

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 02/24/25
Time Start: 2:34pm
Time End: 2:40pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Are you changing the power service?
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
2. A separate application and plans will need to be submitted for the building permit.
Shelbey – Public Works:
3. Need to submit for review and record a LTSWMP/SSOMP for the whole property
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments


THIS ITEM WILL GO TO PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 27th.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (TAIILGATE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                                                        February 18, 2025



    Brittney Harris
    City of Lehi
    Planning and Zoning Division
    153 North 100 East
    Lehi, UT 84043


    RE:      Development Review Committee (DRC) Site Plan Approval Extension Request
             Costco Wholesale – Fuel Facility Expansion
             198 North 1200 East, Lehi, Utah 84043
             Costco Loc. No. 733 / Our Job No. 12098


    Dear Brittney:

    On behalf of Costco Wholesale (Costco), Barghausen Consulting Engineers, LLC is submitting the required
    application form and supporting documents for a Development Review Committee (DRC) Approval
    Extension for the project referenced above.

    The fuel facility expansion was originally approved by the Planning Commission on June 8, 2023, and
    expires on June 8, 2025. Costco is seeking a one- (1) year extension to the approval due to unforeseen
    permit and budget delays.

    The following items are enclosed for your review:

          1. One (1) PDF copy of the signed Application for Extension of Approval Form

          2. One (1) check in the amount of $250 prepared by Barghausen Consulting Engineers, LLC for
             the application fee (to be mailed separately)

    We believe that the above items make up a complete application. Should you have any questions or require
    additional documentation, please contact me at (425) 656-7411 or by email at
    dkopczynski@barghausen.com.

                                                        Respectfully,



                                                        David Kopczynski
                                                        Project Planner

    DK/ps
    12098c.050
    enc:   As Noted
    cc:    Kayleen Burnett, Costco Wholesale
           Jared Bassetti, MG2
           Jay S. Grubb, Barghausen Consulting Engineers, LLC
           Chris S. Ferko, Barghausen Consulting Engineers, LLC
           Julie Anderson, Barghausen Consulting Engineers, LLC




                                  BARGHAUSEN CONSULTING ENGINEERS, LLC
                   18215 72nd AVENUE SOUTH  KENT, WA 98032 P) 425.251.6222 F) 425.251.8782
BRANCH OFFICES: CHEHALIS, WA PUYALLUP, WA RICHLAND, WA KLAMATH FALLS, OR LONG BEACH, CA ROSEVILLE, CA
                                           www.barghausen.com
