                                          WEBB ZONE CHANGE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        Taylor Butterfield
                                  Meeting Date         March 27, 2025
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                       change
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          1312 North 600 East
                                      Acreage          0.51 acres
                              Existing Zoning          RA-1
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          Low Density Residential (LDR)
                 Proposed Zoning Designation           R-1-Flex
                            Existing Land Use          Single Family Home
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North RA-1                 Single Family Homes
                                                        South RA-1                Single Family Homes
                                                         East RA-1                Seminary Building
                                                         West R-1-8               Single Family Homes
                              Date of DRC Review       March 5, 2025
                                Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should
consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

Strong Communities
Establish strong communities where residents have opportunities for meaningful social connections and support sys-
tems.




Webb Zone Change
Strategy 1 Create a life-cycle housing policy that encourages a diversity of housing types in Lehi’s neighborhoods
to provide housing options for prospective residents of differing ages, incomes, abilities, and lifestyles.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

May 24, 1978               Property came into the City as part of the Airport Annexation


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation for a zone change from RA-1 to R-1-Flex for the property located
at 1312 North 600 East. This zone change will allow a minimum lot size of 8,000 square feet and provide the potential
to create a flag lot through a future application.
The proposed R-1-Flex zoning aligns with the Low Density Residential designation in the General Plan and will
enable lot sizes similar to those found on properties to the east of this site.

The Development Review Committee (DRC) reviewed the proposed zone change and raised one comment regarding
water dedication. A water dedication will be required before the zone change can be officially recorded.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative items. However, the City sets an expectation of the zoning by the General Plan Desig-
nations. This proposed zone change is consistent with the General Plan Land Use Designation, and so the Planning
Commission and City Council would need specific reasons to not approve the zone change.

The public can speak to this item, understanding that it will be approved unless there are significant legitimate con-
cerns.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Webb Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          March 5, 2025

                                                 Webb Residential Zone Change
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Taylor Butterfield – requests review of the Webb Zone Change on .51 acres of property located at 1312 North 600 East,
changing the zoning from RA-1 to R-1-Flex.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Taylor Butterfield
Date of Plans Reviewed: 02/21/25
Time Start: 1:50 pm
Time End: 1:54 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S.– Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey– Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. 0.45 acre feet of culinary water will need to be provided to serve the additional home. The current rate is $12,000 per
    acre foot. These water rights can be purchased from Lehi Water Metro. You can reach out to Kim Struthers for more
    information kstruthers@lehi-ut.gov

General Comments:
   1. A line extension and equipment upgrade is required to serve this parcel.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 27, 2025.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
In order to do this, they must rezone their property to R-1-Flex which is consistent with the General
Plan Designation of Low Density Residential (LDR).
