                                        BARRON ZONE CHANGE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        Natalie Barron
                                  Meeting Date         April 10, 2025
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                       change
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          25 East 2200 North
                                      Acreage          0.92-acres
                              Existing Zoning          A-1
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          Very Low Density Residential (VLDR)
                 Proposed Zoning Designation           R-1-15
                            Existing Land Use          Undeveloped Lot
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use               North R-1-12          Single Family Homes
                                                          South R-1-15          Single Family Homes
                                                           East A-1             Single Family Homes
                                                           West R-1-15          Single Family Homes
                              Date of DRC Review       March 26, 2025
                                Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should
consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.

Section 05.020 Zoning Districts Purpose
A.     The purpose of the Very Low Density Residential Districts (R-1-22, RA-1, R-1-15) is to provide for large-lot
single-family residential areas and/or hobby farm developments.




Barron Zone Change
  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

Strong Communities
Establish strong communities where residents have opportunities for meaningful social connections and support
systems.

Strategy 1 Create a life-cycle housing policy that encourages a diversity of housing types in Lehi’s neighborhoods to
provide housing options for prospective residents of differing ages, incomes, abilities, and lifestyles.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

May 25, 1993      City Council approved the Carter Ridge Plat A Subdivision

June 2, 1993      Property came into the City as part of the Carter Estates Addition


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of the Barron Zone change from A-1 to R-1-15 at 25 East 2200
North. The proposed zone change is consistent with the parcels General Plan Land Use designation of Very Low
Density Residential (VLDR) and also matches the zoning of the lots to the west and south.

The applicant expressed their intent to subdivide the property in half in the future. This zone change will make a
future subdivision possible.

The Development Review Committee (DRC) had one redline comment related to the water dedication for the addi-
tional density. The water will need to be dedicated before a future subdivision can be submitted. This ensures the
City has enough water to service the additional home.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative items. However, when the proposed zone change is consistent with the General Plan,
the Planning Commission and ultimately City Council would need to provide reasons for denying the proposed zone
change.

The public can speak on the proposed zone change. Comments focused on specific concerns with the zone change
are the most helpful.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed zone change is consistent with the General Plan Designation of Very Low Density Residential
         (VLDR).
    2.   The proposed zone change matches the zoning to the west and south of the property.
    3.   The proposed zone change allows for one additional lot, that allows a gentle increase of residential homes
         available in the City.
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified




Barron Zone Change
       by the General Plan;




Barron Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 26, 2025

                                                      Barron Zone Change
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Natalie Barron- requests review of the Barron Zone Change from A-1 to R-1-15 on 1-acre of property located at 61 East
2200 North.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Natalie Barron
Date of Plans Reviewed: 03/17/25
Time Start: 1:29pm
Time End: 1:34pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Additional culinary water dedication of 0.45-acre feet is required to provide additional water rights for one additional
    home.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 10, 2025




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Carter Ridge Subdivision Plat A Lot 1 Amendment to Zoning Request
Property Tax ID #: 36:459:0001
Applicant: Natalie Barron

We have recently acquired Lot 1 (25 East 2200 North) of Carter Ridge right next to our home (on
Lot 2 – 61 East 2200 North). The general plan has this property as Very Low Density and the
current zoning is A-1. We would like to change the zoning to R-1-15 so we can sub divide the
acre equally into approximately two ½ acres with the one ½ acre facing south onto 2200 north
and one facing west onto Center Street.

The new R-1-15 zoning is consistent with the surrounding homes and adheres to the general
plan. Homes to the north are zoned R-1-12, homes to the west are zoned R-1-15, and the home
to the south is zoned R-1-15. In fact, this home to the south (24 East 2200 North) was originally
zoned A-1 and was changed to R-1-15 so the owners at that me could sub-divide their lot and
build a new residence on the back half of their property. Our acre to the east is the only A-1
zoned property that is directly connected to Lot 1.

Our purpose for reques ng this zone change is to provide two lots for our children to build
homes next to us.
