                         WARD MEADOWS PLAT AMENDMENT
                                PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant       Brian Garrett
                         Meeting Date        April 10, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose        Approval of a proposed plat amendment
                              Location       2244 West Pumpkin Patch Lane
     Existing General Plan Designation       VLDRA
                       Existing Zoning       R-1-22
                    Existing Land Use        Single Family Homes
                 Number of Lots/Units        3
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North RA-1                  Single Family Homes
                                                South R-1-22                Single Family Homes
                                                 East R-1-22                Single Family Homes
                                                 West R-1-22                Single Family Homes
                    Date of DRC Review       March 26, 2025
                      Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                            REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.340. Vacating, Altering, or Amending a Recorded Subdivision Plat. (Amended 01/23/24)

A. The Planning Commission, following review by the Reviewing Departments, shall be the Land Use Authority
for approving any proposed vacation, alteration, or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision
plat, or any road or lot contained in a subdivision plat. The Planning Commission shall follow all requirements and
procedures identified in Utah State Code Section 10-9a-608.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

November 13, 2000          Property came into the City as part of the Hancock/Ward Annexation (Amd)

March 27, 2007             The City Council approved Ward Meadows Plat A


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of Ward Meadows Plat A Amended, a plat amendment modifying Lots 5, 6, and 7
of the original Ward Meadow plat. The purpose of the amendment is to reconfigure the lot lines. No new lots are
being added to the overall subdivision.

One change with the amendment is that part of Lot 6 will be added to Lot 5 owned by the Garrett family. The other
part of the reconfiguration is that the remainder of lot 6 and 7 will be adjusted so that the acreage is more evenly
distributed. This would allow the Black family to potentially build in the future on the new lot 6A.

The Development Review Committee (DRC) reviewed the proposed plat amendment and had six redline comments
for necessary updates to the plat. These included the following:
1.    Existing water services need to be relocated into lot 6B
2.    Update note about water meter to say 6B. the note needs to be shown on lot 6B on the plat so that it is enforced in
      the future.
3.    There is no record of a house on lot #6. On lot 6A, label as existing shed, not house.

Please consider all of the DRC comments in the motion.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve or approve with modifications the plat amendment. Any motion should
include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The proposed amendment does not add any additional lots to the subdivision.
      2.   The proposed subdivision meets/does not meet the requirements of the Development Code.
      3.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public meeting.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 26, 2025

                                                Ward Meadows Plat Amendment
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Brian Garrett- requests review of a Plat Amendment for Ward Meadows located at 2244 West Pumpkin Patch Lane,
reconfiguring lot lines for lots 5,6, and 7.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Brian Garrett
Date of Plans Reviewed: 03/18/25
Time Start: 2:54 pm
Time End: 3:04 pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
1. Existing water services need to be relocated into lot 6B
2. Update note about water meter to say 6B. the note needs to be shown on lot 6B on the plat so that it is enforced in the
    future.
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
3. There is no record of a house on lot #6. On lot 6A, label as existing shed, not house.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
4. Label 10' PU&RCE
5. Show setback line offset from property line
6. Label as 10' setback
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 10, 2025.

Prior to Recording:
    1. A mylar plat will need to be signed and submitted to the City with surveyor’s stamp/signature.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
