                  INVERNESS PLAT D PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant        DR Horton
                          Meeting Date         April 10, 2025
               Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation for a proposed preliminary
                                               subdivision
                           Decision Type       Administrative
                                Location       Approximately Horton Way and Edinburgh Avenue
       Existing General Plan Designation       Low Density Residential (LDR), Medium Density Residential (MDR),
                                               High Density Residential (HDR), Public Facility (PF), Open Space
                                               (OS)
                        Existing Zoning        Planned Community (PC)
                     Existing Land Use         Undeveloped Hillside
                   Number of Lots/Units        278 Single Family Homes and 126 Townhomes
          Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North Draper                 Single Family Homes/ Open Space
                                                  South PC                     TI Open Space Buffer
                                                   East Draper                 Undeveloped Hillside
                                                   West TH-5                   Undeveloped Hillside
                      Date of DRC Review       March 26, 2025
                        Assigned Planner       Brittney

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                            City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code, in-
cluding review by the Reviewing Departments, and review and approval by the Planning Commission following a
public hearing.

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has
been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.

Section 37.040. Connectivity Standards.

    1. Maximum Block Lengths. Maximum block lengths allowed shall be required based on the project density as
    identified on the following table of maximum block lengths:

                  Density                                            Block Length
               0-2.5 DU/AC                           1,000 ft. street and pedestrian block length
               2.6-4 DU/AC                            800 ft. street and pedestrian block length
               4.1-6 DU/AC                            600 ft. street and pedestrian block length
               6.1+ DU/AC                  600 ft. street block length and 400 ft. pedestrian block length




Inverness Plat D Preliminary Subdivision
         a.    Increase in Block Length. The maximum allowed block length may be increased if the applicant provides
               clear and convincing evidence that it is impracticable to achieve due to:

                i. road grades that exceed ten percent;

               ii. Jordan River;

               iii. Utah Lake;

               iv. delineated wetlands;

                v. other significant natural and historic features such as Dry Creek or the Waste Ditch drainage channel;

               vi. existing adjacent development;

              vii. rail corridors; or

              viii. limited access roadways.

A. Pedestrian Connectivity Standards. All residential and non-residential developments and subdivisions shall meet the
following standards:

    1. Pedestrian connections shall be utilized to connect proposed developments to master planned trails and adjacent
    existing or future developments where applicable. Connections shall be of a hard surface with a minimum width of
    ten feet including landscaped shoulders on each side of at least five feet in width. Trail access spacing shall not exceed
    600 feet.

    2. Sidewalks and trails shall interconnect all units, buildings, and streets within a development, and shall provide
    connectivity to existing adjacent development or future development areas.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

December 11, 2012            City Council approved the Micron Area Plan

April 8, 2022                This property came into Lehi as the Micron East Annexation

August 23, 2022              City Council approved the Skye Area Plan amending the Micron Area Plan

September 19, 2023           City Council approved the Skye Area Plan Second Amendment



  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of the proposed Inverness Plat D Preliminary Subdivision in-
cluding 278 single family lots and 126 townhomes. This represents the last preliminary plat for the Skye Area Plan.

Layout
The proposed preliminary subdivision includes the most northern area of the Skye Area Plan. It also includes the
largest portion of open space that will be dedicated to Lehi City. The open space will be dedicated with the final plats
of the surrounding lots. The public open space included in this preliminary plat is over 472 acres.

The preliminary plans include the last section of Horton Way that will connect this section of development to Skye




Inverness Plat D Preliminary Subdivision
Preliminary Plats B and C. It also includes neighborhood streets. These streets do not meet the connectivity require-
ments and will require an exception.

The preliminary plat includes 278 single family homes, including several larger lots. It also includes 126 townhomes
at the center.

The Skye Area Plan included an irrigation map for these lots that limits the amount of irrigation that can be used on
these lots. In other words, many of these lots that are next to the open space, will have areas that remain native
without the potential to build or landscape them in ways that require water. This will help reduce the impact on the
natural environment.

Exceptions
The proposed road network does not meet connectivity requirements, including the maximum block length. This area
includes many steep slopes that allow for an exception to the connectivity standards. The connectivity standards also
recommend including pedestrian connections where road connections do not work. The applicant has expressed some
concern with providing pedestrian connections because of slopes that exceed 30 percent. They may reevaluate areas
that would work but seek an exception allowing them to develop the road and trail network as shown in the prelimi-
nary plans.

Elevations
The applicant provided the townhomes elevations that will be used in this area. They meet the design requirements
outlined in the Skye Area Plan. The single-family home elevations will receive review after the building permits are
submitted for the individual lots.

DRC Comments
The Development Review Committee reviewed the proposed preliminary subdivision and had 14 comments includ-
ing:
     1. Please provide landscaping plan.
     2. Recommend adjusting lots to allow common space corridors to connect into open space areas for better
        pedestrian connectivity (similar to Canyon Hills).
     3. Label this as a future trailhead.
     4. Remove the PU&RCE shown on the sides and backs of lots
     5. Need to address the non-irrigable area with the non-disturbance area on the final plats.
     6. Provide a circulation plan with the street connectivity assessment that includes links (both street and trails),
        nodes (only for intersecting streets and cul-de-sac ends), block lengths, and connectivity index calculation.
        This circulation plan will also need to note which exceptions are proposed and why. Where exceptions are
        given, the Code states that bike/ped access should still be provided unless there are justifications not to.
     7. It would be great to get some accesses from the subdivision areas into the greenway. Our typical requirement
        is one access per 600 feet of trail. I like this layout of the greenway coming down, though it requires an
        exception to connectivity, and typically with these kinds of exceptions we like to see some bike/ped con-
        nectivity achieved.
     8. Will there be a trail connection along this sewer and storm drain corridor? A connection here would help
        this subdivision better meet the connectivity requirements. If there is a trail connection, show bike ramps to
        the street at each end. This trail could serve as an all-weather access as well.
     9. These washes along the lot lines would be great for dirt trail accesses to better connect the lower and upper
        areas here. The grades definitely warrant exceptions to street connectivity, but a couple small natural trails
        like this would help at least give some connectivity.

Please consider including all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Subdivisions are an administrative item. This means if they meet the Code requirements the Planning Commission
and City Council must approve them. The applicant does request an exception based on grade which the Planning




Inverness Plat D Preliminary Subdivision
Commission may grant or deny. Whatever motion they make must include findings or reasons.

Residents can give comments on this item. However, they should realize that the Planning Commission may only
require things that are in the Code. Residents can bring up concerns and solutions recognizing that the applicant can
choose to implement or not implement the feedback.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed preliminary subdivision.
Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed subdivision has significant grade that justifies an exception to the connectivity standards./
         The grade of the proposed subdivision does not justify an exception to the connectivity standards.
    2.   The proposed subdivision meets the requirements of the Skye Area Plan.
    3.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
         gards to subdivision approvals.
    4.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Inverness Plat D Preliminary Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 26, 2025

                                                  Inverness Preliminary Plat D
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

DR Horton- requests preliminary subdivision review of Inverness Plat D including 278 single family homes and 126
townhomes located at approximately Horton Way and Edinburgh Avenue.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Scott Bishop, Ben Tuckett
Date of Plans Reviewed: 03/18/25
Time Start: 1:35pm
Time End: 2:08pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Relocate (2) PRV’s as noted on the drawings.
2. Show PUE widths and locations
3. At final provide power plan sheet(s) for Lehi Power to draw the power design.
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire:
1. Specify, 30' buffer or fire sprinklers? Fire Sprinklers will require a waterline up sized to 1".
2. Show temporary turnarounds at dead ends if no connectivity will be provided at the time of build.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
3. Provide the zone break to see if these Prv's are in the right location.
James – Parks:
4. Please provide landscaping plan.
5. Recommend adjusting lots to allow common space corridors to connect into open space areas for better pedestrian
    connectivity (similar to Canyon Hills).
6. Label this as a future trailhead.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
7. A soils report is needed for this area.
Shelbey – Public Works:
Gary E. – Engineering:
8. Remove the PU&RCE shown on the sides and backs of lots
9. At time of final site plan, include roadway culvert sized to include flows from new study for this drainage
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
10. Need to address the non-irrigable area with the non-disturbance area on the final plats.
11. Provide a circulation plan with the street connectivity assessment that includes links (both street and trails), nodes (only
    for intersecting streets and cul-de-sac ends), block lengths, and connectivity index calculation. This circulation plan
    will also need to note which exceptions are proposed and why. Where exceptions are given, the Code states that
    bike/ped access should still be provided unless there are justifications not to.
12. It would be great to get some accesses from the subdivision areas into the greenway. Our typical requirement is one
    access per 600 feet of trail. I like this layout of the greenway coming down, though it requires an exception to
    connectivity, and typically with these kinds of exceptions we like to see some bike/ped connectivity achieved.
13. Will there be a trail connection along this sewer and storm drain corridor? A connection here would help this
    subdivision better meet the connectivity requirements. If there is a trail connection, show bike ramps to the street at
    each end. This trail could serve as an all-weather access as well.
14. These washes along the lot lines would be great for dirt trail accesses to better connect the lower and upper areas here.
    The grades definitely warrant exceptions to street connectivity, but a couple small natural trails like this would help at
    least give some connectivity.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 26, 2025

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)

ITEMS THAT MAY BE REQUIRED PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
    landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
    Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
    improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
    supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
    necessary supplies for the development.
5. Required water dedication must be completed.
6. Reimbursement Agreement for any reimbursable improvement items must be in place.
7. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
    process.
8. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
9. Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).
10. New property line adjacent to existing roads and any new trails must be staked and reviewed by the City.
11. Irrigation Company signature on the construction drawings for the irrigation piping.
12. Provide a recordable easement document for all necessary off-site easements (temp. turnarounds, utilities, power, etc).
13. Submit a copy of all required licenses (railroad, UDOT, UTA, aqueduct, canal, etc).
14. Provide a signed development agreement (prepared by Lehi City Planning Department).
15. Provide a Rocky Mountain Power agreement and cost estimate for the relocation of the RMP power poles which shall
    be included in the bond. The developer is responsible to pay all costs for relocation at the time the bond is posted.
1. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
    Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com). More information available at https://www.lehi-
    ut.gov/departments/water/storm-water/
16. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
17. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
    Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
    agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
18. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
19. Address any comments or conditions from Planning Commission approval of the preliminary
20. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled
21. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Submit a title report to the planner over the project for review.
4. Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
   property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.
5. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
6. Provide a recorded copy of required boundary line agreement(s).
7. Provide a signed original copy of the CC&Rs to record with the plat (to be reviewed by City Attorney).
8. Warranty deed/title insurance (open space, detention, City park property, City trails, some road dedication). Title
   insurance policies on each to be obtained through Marnae at Affiliated First Title 801-610-1670


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 26, 2025

9. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.
STAFF
10. Send a digital copy of the plat to the County for review prior to accepting printed mylar.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 10th

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                3 of 3
                                                                                               March 17, 2025

                              Inverness Area Plan Preliminary Plat D
Preliminary Plat D includes the remaining 404 residential lots on the north of Inverness. This consists of single-
family lots and town homes. Preliminary Plat D will finish the utility improvements for Inverness. This includes
a water line that connects the east side with the west side as well as connecting to the tank that will be
installed at the top of the project. Additionally, Horton Way will be completed, which provides access from the
east side to the west side of Inverness. Within the Preliminary Plat D there will be several amenities including
but not limited to the following: A master trail connecting the east and west installed with Horton Way, Open
spaced dedicated to Lehi City, and a Pool Area.
