                      BART CHRISTOFFERSON ANNEXATION #2
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Tony Trane
                         Meeting Date         April 10, 2025
              Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation of proposed zoning on property to be an-
                                              nexed
                        Decision Type         Legislative
                             Location         440 South 300 East
                    Requested Zoning          R-1-Flex
    General Plan Land Use Designation         LDR
                              Acreage         0.40 acres
                    Existing Land Use         Single family residential
       Adjacent Zoning and Land Use              North R-1-Flex           Undeveloped
                                                 South N/A                Single family residential
                                                  East R-1-8              Southtowne Plat B
                                                  West N/A                Undeveloped
                    Date of DRC Review        February 26, 2025
                      Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                           City Council       Final approval


  REPORT ANALYSIS

As part of the Lehi City annexation procedures, all annexation requests are required to be reviewed by the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission’s responsibility is to review the proposed annexation and determine whether
or not the requested zoning is appropriate and complies with the General Plan. The Planning Commission’s recom-
mendation will be forwarded to the City Council for their review upon final consideration of the annexation.

The General Plan designates this property as LDR. The proposed R-1-Flex zoning corresponds with the Low-Density
Residential designation on the General Plan. This annexation is being done by resolution because the property is part
of an existing county island.

The DRC reviewed the proposed annexation and had the following comments:

    1.   A line extension is required to serve this parcel.
    2.   As a condition of recording the annexation and prior to submission of an application for preliminary subdivi-
         sion, the owner needs to complete the required water dedication for the R-1-Flex Zone. The amount of culi-
         nary water is 1.58 acre feet per acre and irrigation water is 2.11 acre feet per acre.
    3.   Update the acceptance by legislative body including adding “mayor” label and removing extra lines
    4.   It would be helpful to better delineate the property being annexed. Maybe use a thicker line type and bold the
         text for the parcel information.

Please consider the DRC comments in the motion.




Bart Christofferson Annexation #2
  PLANNING DIVISION RECOMMENDATION

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zoning on property to be an-
nexed. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed R-1-Flex zoning does conform with the VLDRA designation of the General Plan.
    2.   The proposed application does/does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Other findings as determined by the public hearing.




Bart Christofferson Annexation #2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         February 26, 2025

                                               Bart Christofferson Annexation #2
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Tony Trane – requests review of the Bart Christofferson Annexation #2 with proposed R-1 Flex zoning located at 440 South
300 East.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Tony Trane
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Date of Plans Reviewed: 02/18/25
Time Start: 1:04pm
Time End: 1:15pm

DRC REPORT:
   1. Critical Issues:

    2.   Location of existing and proposed City facilities:
            a. All utilities are available in 300 East

    3.   Zoning required or recommended:
            a. The proposed R-1-Flex zoning is consistent with the Low Density Residential (LDR) General Plan
                 Designation

    4.   Distances to schools/parks/shopping
             a. Lehi Elementary 1.3 miles
             b. Lehi Junior High 1.9 miles
             c. Lehi High School 0.9 miles
             d. Margaret Wines Park 1.2 miles
             e. Macey’s Grocery Store 0.7 miles

    5.   Transportation
         200 South and Main Street to the North. Railroad blocks access to the south.

DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
   1. A line extension is required to serve this parcel.
   2. RMP ATA may be required.
   3. RMP serves neighbor behind.
   4. As a condition of recording the annexation and prior to submission of an application for preliminary subdivision,
      the owner needs to complete the required water dedication for the R-1-Flex Zone. The amount of culinary water is
      1.58 acre feet per acre and irrigation water is 2.11 acre feet per acre.
  5. Update the acceptance by legislative body including adding “mayor” label and removing extra lines
  6. It would be helpful to better delineate the property being annexed. Maybe use a thicker line type and bold the text
      for the parcel information.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR CITY COUNCIL ON MARCH 18th
NEED ENVELOPES
(PLANNING STAFF - REMEMBER TO SEND AN ELECTRONIC COPY OF THE ANNEXATION PLAT TO THE
COUNTY SURVEYOR’S OFFICE FOR THEIR “PRE CHECK” AND REMEMBER TO CHECK NAME ON
ANNEXATION PLAT THAT IT STAYS THE SAME THROUGHOUT THE PROCESS AND ON ALL LEGAL
DOCUMENTS)


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Narrative

Lehi City
Attn: City Council and Staff

Subject: Bart Christofferson Annexation #2 Request


The property owner of approximately 0.4 acres located at 400 south 300 east desires to annex into
Lehi City. This annexation is requesting to be annexed under the R1-Flex zoning. We feel this is
an appropriate request based on the criteria below:

(a) In general, what is the topography, vegetation, and other natural features present on the
property proposed to be annexed? Flat Farm Land


(b) What is the existing land use(s) of the property proposed for annexation and those requested
by the owners? Open Field


(c) What is the current and potential (if the property were developed) population and residential
density of the proposed area? The intent would be to create 1 buildable lot in the area of the
annexation.


(d) How will the proposed annexation comply with and achieve Lehi City’s land use(s), goals and
policies outlined in the Lehi City General Plan? The request is in line with the land use goals of
this area.


(e) What are the current and potential (if the property were developed) demands for City
provided facilities and services to the area proposed for annexation, including culinary water,
irrigation water, wastewater,transportation facilities, drainage, fire protection, solid waste, parks
and recreation, and police protection? Potential impact of 1 lot.

(f) Are the water rights necessary for annexation, found in Section 27-040 of the Lehi
Development Code available for dedication to Lehi City upon annexation? The owner is planning
to purchase water from the city for the water rights requirement with the city that are anticipated
to be used with this annexation.


Thank you for your consideration of this matter.
