                                    ANDERSON ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant         Caden Hazard
                                Meeting Date          April 10, 2025
                     Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                      change
                              Decision Type           Legislative
                                   Location           206 North 1100 West
                                    Acreage           0.60 acres
                            Existing Zoning           A-1
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           VLDRA
               Proposed Zoning Designation            R-1-22
                          Existing Land Use           Single family residential
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North R-1-22              West Grove Subdivision
                                                       South R-1-22             Single family residential
                                                        East A-1                Single family residential
                                                        West A-1                Church
                            Date of DRC Review        March 19, 2025
                              Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                  City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL (VLDRA)

The purpose of the Very Low Density Residential/Agricultural (VLDRA) classification is to provide for single-family




Anderson Zone Change
residential areas within a rural setting, with an overall neighborhood density not to exceed 1.75 units per acre. Much of
the area designated as VLDRA is located where small-scale farming, hobby farming, or other agricultural uses are pre-
sent. Where new development is allowed adjacent to existing agricultural areas, the new development must be sensitive
to the existing uses. Larger lot sizes and lower density zones that allow for animal rights will be encouraged where ad-
jacent to such agricultural areas. In particular, provision should be made for hobby farms, ranchettes, or equestrian-
related developments where the development is to be located adjacent to similar existing uses.

Although new development in VLDRA areas is allowed, the existing agricultural uses will be encouraged to remain.
Growth should be directed in an orderly manner, growing outward from existing developed areas where public facilities
are available.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

November 16, 1989                     Property came into the City as part of the Airport Annexation


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation for a zone change from A-1 to R-1-22 for a portion of the property
located at 206 North 1100 West. This zone change on 0.60 acres of property will meet the minimum lot size of 22,000
square feet and provide the potential to create an additional lot with a future application.
The proposed R-1-22 zoning aligns with the Very Low Density Residential Agriculture designation in the General
Plan.

The Development Review Committee (DRC) reviewed the proposed zone change and raised one comment regarding
water dedication. Water dedication will be required before the zone change can be officially recorded.

  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative items. However, the City sets an expectation of the zoning by the General Plan Designa-
tions. This proposed zone change is consistent with the General Plan Land Use Designation, and so the Planning Com-
mission and City Council would need specific reasons to not approve the zone change.

The public can speak to this item, understanding that it will be approved unless there are significant legitimate concerns.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Anderson Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 19, 2025

                                                 Anderson Zone Change Update
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Caden Hazard- requests review of the Anderson Zone Change located at 206 North 1100 West, changing the zoning on
0.60 acres from A-1 to R-1-22.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Caden Hazard, Scott Hazard
Date of Plans Reviewed: 03/11/25
Time Start: 3:40 pm
Time End: 3:43 pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Glade – Power: No comments. For the Plat, provide show & label PUE along 1100 W.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Water dedication will be required for the zone change request. You will need .47 acre feet of culinary water and 1.74
    acre feet of irrigation water.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 10, 2025.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                               A Description of the Zoning Map Amendment



(a) Reason and Justiﬁcation for the Proposed Amendment

The proposed zoning map amendment seeks to better align the property’s land use with the city’s evolving
needs and growth patterns. The current zoning designation no longer reﬂects the highest and best use of the
property, given the surrounding development trends and the increasing demand for residential homes in the
area. This amendment will facilitate responsible growth and contribute to the long-term vision of Lehi City.
We are proposing that the zoning classiﬁcation for a portion of the parcel located at 206 N 1100 W be
changed from A-1 to R-1-22 to enable a two-lot subdivision of the parcel creating one, .6-acre lot. Currently
there is one dwelling on the property and A-1 allows for only one dwelling unit per acre. If the proposal is
approved, a two-lot subdivision including the existing dwelling and the new .6-acre lot with a new dwelling
built would be pursued.



(b) Consistency with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan

The proposed amendment is fully consistent with the Lehi City General Plan, which calls for Very Low Density
Residential in this area.



(c) Compatibility with Existing Land Uses of Nearby and Adjoining Properties

The proposed zone change is compatible with the surrounding properties and existing land uses. Many
adjacent parcels already feature similar or complementary uses, making this amendment a logical and
harmonious transition.



(d) EWect on the Character of the Surrounding Area

The proposed uses align with current trends and market demands, ensuring that nearby properties maintain
or enhance their desirability. Moreover, the amendment will not unduly impact existing uses surrounding the
property.



(e) Public Health, Safety, Welfare, and Overall Community Beneﬁt

Approving this amendment will result in public beneﬁts like improved land utilization and increased tax
revenue for essential city services. The overall community will beneﬁt from this amendment as it supports
balanced growth and aligns with city objectives.
