                              CLARK MEADOWS ANNEXATION
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant       Caden Hazard
                         Meeting Date        April 24, 2025
              Requested Action/Purpose       Review and recommendation of proposed zoning on property to be an-
                                             nexed
                        Decision Type        Legislative
                             Location        Approximately 1800 W 1300 S (9227 W 7750 N)
                    Requested Zoning         R-1-22
    General Plan Land Use Designation        VLDRA
                              Acreage        7.2 acres
                    Existing Land Use        Single family residential
       Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North R-1-22              Church Park area
                                                South N/A                 Single family residential
                                                 East N/A                 Single family residential
                                                 West R-1-22              South Creek Plat A Subdivision
                    Date of DRC Review       March 26, 2025
                      Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                            REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission       Review and recommendation
                           City Council      Final approval


  REPORT ANALYSIS

As part of the Lehi City annexation procedures, all annexation requests are required to be reviewed by the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission’s responsibility is to review the proposed annexation and determine whether
or not the requested zoning is appropriate and complies with the General Plan. The Planning Commission’s recom-
mendation will be forwarded to the City Council for their review upon final consideration of the annexation.

The General Plan designates this property as VLDRA. The proposed R-1-22 zoning corresponds with the Very Low-
Density Residential Agriculture designation on the General Plan. This annexation is being done by resolution because
the property is part of an existing county island.

The DRC reviewed the proposed annexation and had no critical issue concerns. The DRC comments were informa-
tive for the applicant.

Please consider the DRC comments in the motion.


  PLANNING DIVISION RECOMMENDATION

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zoning on property to be an-
nexed. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed R-1-22 zoning does conform with the VLDRA designation of the General Plan.
    2.   The proposed application does/does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Other findings as determined by the public hearing.




Clark Meadows Annexation
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          March 26, 2025

                                                   Clark Meadow Annexation
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Caden Hazard- requests review of the Clark Meadows Annexation of 7.2 acres located at 9227 W 7750 N (approximately
1800 W 1300 S) with R-1-22 zoning.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Caden Hazard, Scott Hazard
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Date of Plans Reviewed: 03/14/25
Time Start: 2:36 pm
Time End: 2:45 pm

DRC REPORT:
   1. Critical Issues: None

    2.   Location of existing and proposed City facilities- Water, Power, and Sewer in 1300 S

    3.   Zoning required or recommended- R-1-22

    4.   Distances to schools/parks/shopping

         Lehi High School- 2.3 miles
         Willowcreek Junior High- 1.69 miles
         Dry Creek Elementary- .4 miles
         Snow Springs Elementary- .4 miles
         Forest-Mellor Park- less than .1 miles

    5.   Transportation- 1300 S is a local street

DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
   1. As a condition of recording the annexation plat, the applicant will need to provide water dedication per Chapter 27
      of the Development Code. The rate for the R-1-22 Zone is .79 acre feet per acre of culinary water and 2.9 acre
      feet per acre of irrigation water.
  2. An annexation agreement will be required as part of the annexation process. The applicant is responsible to
      request a copy of the draft agreement prior to the final City Council meeting. An annexation agreement will be
      required as part of the annexation process. The applicant is responsible to request a copy of the draft agreement
      prior to the final City Council meeting.
  3. A Mylar copy of the annexation plat is required prior to scheduling the annexation for final City Council approval.
  4. Plat boundary is not very clear. Can you use a thicker line weight for the annexation boundary and fade back the
      other line work?
  5. Update some of the names of adjacent property owners to be correct
  6. Fix street number on plat.
  7. RMP asset transfer will be required at development.
  8. Lehi Power line extension required at development.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR CITY COUNCIL FOR THE RESOLUTION OF INTENT TO ANNEX ON
APRIL 8, 2025.
(PLANNING STAFF - REMEMBER TO SEND AN ELECTRONIC COPY OF THE ANNEXATION PLAT TO THE
COUNTY SURVEYOR’S OFFICE FOR THEIR “PRE CHECK” AND REMEMBER TO CHECK NAME ON
ANNEXATION PLAT THAT IT STAYS THE SAME THROUGHOUT THE PROCESS AND ON ALL LEGAL
DOCUMENTS)


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                            Annexation Information Requirements:


In general, what is the topography, vegetation, and other natural features present on the property proposed to be
annexed?

Topography is relatively flat and has one home located on the property. There is a natural drainage ditch along the southern
border of the parcel.

What is the existing land use(s) of the property proposed for annexation and those requested by the owners?

The current use is residential and agricultural. The proposed use is residential.

What is the current and potential (if the property were developed) population and residential density of the proposed
area?

Current density is a single home on the 7.2 acre parcel. If the property were to be developed, density would be ½ acre lots, which
would yield approximately 9 total lots from the mother parcel. The existing house would remain on a smaller lot once developed.

How will the proposed annexation comply with and achieve Lehi City’s land use(s), goals and policies outlined in the Lehi
City General Plan?

The requested zone upon annexation is consistent with the Lehi City’s Annexation Policy, the City’s General Plan, and with the
surrounding land uses.

What are the current and potential (if the property were developed) demands for City provided facilities and services to
the area proposed for annexation, including culinary water, irrigation water, wastewater, transportation facilities,
drainage, fire protection, solid waste, parks and recreation, and police protection?

Current demands for city facilities and services are minimal. If developed, the main increased demands the City would see
include culinary water and sewer connections with the limited increase of 8 lots not significantly affecting other city provided
services. Fire and EMS services are already provided to the area. The proposal would include a dedication of the ditch on the
south side of the parcel, together with a design for trail connectivity to be completed at developer’s expense, but to be maintained
in the future by the City (both trail enhancement and storm drain maintenance in the ditch). Water rights are owned by the
applicant and will be transferred to the City per Lehi’s water right dedication requirements for culinary and irrigation use.

Are the water rights necessary for annexation, found in Section 27-040 of the Lehi Development Code available for
dedication to Lehi City upon annexation?

The property owner has sufficient water rights available for dedication to Lehi City for both irrigation and culinary uses.
