                    SALT SPRING GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant        Fieldstone Homes
                                Meeting Date         April 24, 2025
                     Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation for an amendment to the General
                                                     Plan
                              Decision Type          Legislative
                                   Location          Approximately 500 East 950 South
                                    Acreage          13.32 acres
                            Existing Zoning          N/A (County parcel)
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          VLDRA
             Proposed Land Use Designation           HDR
                          Existing Land Use          Undeveloped
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North N/A               Single family residential
                                                      South N/A              Undeveloped
                                                       East A-5              Undeveloped
                                                       West R-1-22           Sugar Mill Estates Subdivision
                           Date of DRC Review        March 5, 2025
                             Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                                  City Council       Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval
The Planning Commission should consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a General Plan
amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoin-
         ing properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


 APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES




Salt Spring General Plan Amendment
  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting to amend the General Plan land use designation of 13.32 acres of property located at
approximately 500 East 950 South from Very Low-Density Residential Agriculture (VLDRA) to High Density
Residential (HDR).

The proposed General Plan amendment is being done in conjunction with a proposal to annex 13.32 acres of prop-
erty from an existing county island. The applicant’s narrative explains their intention is to build small-lot single
family detached homes. They believe this type of product would help to transition from the existing larger lot sin-
gle family homes to the west to potential future commercial and light industrial to the east.

It should be noted how changing the General Plan Designation affects the potential density of this parcel. The




Salt Spring General Plan Amendment
VLDRA designation allows for a density of 1.75 units an acre, while the HDR designation allows for 12 units an
acre. Under the current VLDRA designation, the 13.32-acre parcel could support 23 lots. If the amendment were
approved to HDR, the maximum number of lots that could be built on this parcel would be 159 lots. The applicant
has expressed an interest in working with the City to limit the number of lots that would be approved, but that
would require a development agreement.

There were six comments from the DRC, including the following:

1.    Power infrastructure in this area is not sized to accommodate HDR.
2.    We will need to evaluate utilities to ensure there is sufficient capacity to serve the additional density.
3.    The Planning Commission and City Council should consider if they want to add this additional density or move it
      from a different area of the City.
4.    The HDR designation and corresponding R-3 Zone would allow 12 units per acre or up to 159 total units whereas
      the current VLDRA with R-1-22 zoning would allow up to approximately 23 units. In other words this General
      Plan Amendment would allow an additional 136 units on this parcel.
5.    Planning Staff has a concern that by increasing density in this area, it will take away from density/utility capacities
      in areas better suited for more density such as the TOD areas we have designated along UTA's corridors. Although
      this property does border MDR, the City Council and the Planning Commission have indicated that any new densi-
      ty in Lehi should be located in TOD and other strategic pre-planned areas. This is outside of those areas and is not
      recommended that we deviate from our adopted General Plan land use map and policies.
6.    This would create an island of HDR in an area that has been planned to remain as larger lots. Approving this
      change would create a precedent that may influence future similar changes on other surrounding properties.

Please consider the DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

General Plan Amendments are legislative items. This means the Planning Commission will give a recommendation
to the City Council, who will ultimately decide if this amendment will be approved or not. The Planning Commis-
sion has a high level of discretion in recommending approval to the City Council or not. The Planning Commission
should consider if this amendment would be beneficial to the city as a whole, and how this amendment would im-
pact surrounding areas.

This is a public hearing item.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendment to the General
Plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The proposed amendment to the Lehi City General Plan is/is not detrimental to the public health, safety,
           and welfare of Lehi City.
      2.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provisions
           of the General Plan and its various elements.
      3.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not consistent with the land uses and zoning of nearby and
           adjoining properties.
      4.   The proposed General Plan amendment will/will not have a substantial adverse effect on surrounding
           property.
      5.   The affected site is/is not physically suitable in terms of design, location, shape, size, operating character-
           istics, and the provision of public services to accommodate any potential future uses, including all land-
           scaping, loading areas, open spaces, parking areas, setbacks, buffering/screening, walls, fences, yards, and
           other required features.
      6.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Salt Spring General Plan Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         March 5, 2025

                                             Salt Spring General Plan Amendment
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Fieldstone Homes – requests review of the Salt Spring General Plan Amendment on 13.32 acres of property located at
approximately 500 East 950 South, changing the land use designation from VLDRA to HDR.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Cameron Smith, Randy Smith
Date of Plans Reviewed: 02/25/25
Time Start: 1:59 pm
Time End: 2:20 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Power infrastructure in this area is not sized to accommodate HDR.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
2. We will need to evaluate utilities to ensure there is sufficient capacity to serve the additional density.
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
3. The Planning Commission and City Council should consider if they want to add this additional density or move it from
    a different area of the City.
4. The HDR designation and corresponding R-3 Zone would allow 12 units per acre or up to 159 total units whereas the
    current VLDRA with R-1-22 zoning would allow up to approximately 23 units. In other words this General Plan
    Amendment would allow an additional 136 units on this parcel.
5. Planning Staff has a concern that by increasing density in this area, it will take away from density/utility capacities in
    areas better suited for more density such as the TOD areas we have designated along UTA's corridors. Although this
    property does border MDR, the City Council and the Planning Commission have indicated that any new density in
    Lehi should be located in TOD and other strategic pre-planned areas. This is outside of those areas and is not
    recommended that we deviate from our adopted General Plan land use map and policies.
6. This would create an island of HDR in an area that has been planned to remain as larger lots. Approving this change
    would create a precedent that may influence future similar changes on other surrounding properties.


HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (HDR)

The High Density Residential (HDR) classification provides opportunities for the development of higher density residential
uses, including single family detached and attached residential units, apartments, condominiums, townhouses, and the
missing middle housing types such as duplexes, triplexes, fourplexes, and cottages, with an overall density not to exceed 12
dwelling units per acre

VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL (VLDRA)

The purpose of the Very Low Density Residential/Agricultural (VLDRA) classification is to provide for single-family
residential areas within a rural setting, with an overall neighborhood density not to exceed 1.75 units per acre. Much of the
area designated as VLDRA is located where small-scale farming, hobby farming, or other agricultural uses are present.
Where new development is allowed adjacent to existing agricultural areas, the new development must be sensitive to the
existing uses. Larger lot sizes and lower density zones that allow for animal rights will be encouraged where adjacent to


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         March 5, 2025

such agricultural areas. In particular, provision should be made for hobby farms, ranchettes, or equestrian-related
developments where the development is to be located adjacent to similar existing uses.

The VLDRA designation is also intended to encourage creativity and flexibility of planning and design through the use of
Planned Residential Design projects and Planned Unit Developments, where clustering and open space, with a variety of lot
sizes and a range of housing choices can be accomplished while still maintaining a base density of 1.75 units per acre.
Although new development in VLDRA areas is allowed, the existing agricultural uses will be encouraged to remain.
Growth should be directed in an orderly manner, growing outward from existing developed areas where public facilities are
available

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MARCH 27, 2025.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
Subject: General Plan Amendment Request

Dear Lehi City,

Description of Amendment

We are requesting a General Plan Amendment to change the land use designation of parcels
13:037:0044 and 13:008:0003 (totaling +/-13.25 acres) from "Very Low Density Residential
Agriculture (VLDRA)" to "High-Density Residential (HDR)." Our plan is to build small-lot
single family detached homes, which would be allowed under a HDR land designation, creating
a transition between adjacent low-density residential zones to the west and future commercial
and light industrial zones to the east.

Reason and Justification for the Proposed Amendment

The subdivisions to the west of the site contain 1/2 acre and 1/3 acre lots. The General Plan land
use designation for the property to the east is shown as high intensity uses, including commercial
and light industrial. Our proposed amendment addresses the need for a transition between the
lower-intensity use of large-lot residential homes to the more intense use of commercial and light
industrial shown on the future land use map. Small-lot residential development would:
     Create a transition between lower-intensity and higher-intensity land uses.
     Offer residents convenient access to job centers, amenities, and public transit connections
        through its proximity to Pioneer Crossing and a planned future street extension on the
        Lehi City Master Transportation Plan to the east of the subject property (see Exhibit C).
Consistency with the Goals and Policies of the General Plan

The proposed amendment aligns with the following goals and policies outlined in the Lehi City
General Plan Land Use Element:

   1. Placemaking: Create public and private spaces that provide a unique sense of place.
               “Impacts on existing residential neighborhoods should be minimized to the
               greatest extent practicable. One way to help reduce these impacts is by requiring
               a transition from less intense uses to slightly more intense uses.”

       The proposed HDR zoning provides this necessary transition. The development of the
       subject property will impact existing residential neighborhoods through increased traffic,
       noise pollution, and greater demand on infrastructure. However, small-lot single-family
       detached homes will have a lower impact on the surrounding large-lot (½ acre) single-
       family homes compared to higher-density options like townhomes, condos, or
       apartments. Additionally, future commercial and light industrial uses will have less
       impact on small-lot single-family homes than on large-lot homes, making small-lot
       development a more suitable choice than continuing with ½-acre lots. Our plan will help
       prevent an abrupt shift in land use and minimize impacts on the existing neighborhoods.
   2. Strong Communities: Establish strong communities where residents have opportunities
      for meaningful social connections and support systems.
               “Create a life-cycle housing policy that encourages a diversity of housing types to
               provide housing options for prospective residents of differing ages, incomes,
               abilities, and lifestyles. This will enable young couples, families, and elderly to
               live near relatives, and stay within their same social networks (e.g. church
               boundaries) throughout their lives.”

       By incorporating small-lot detached homes, we will bring a diversity in housing types to
       the area, enabling young families to settle in familiar neighborhoods near existing support
       networks.

   3. Residential Development: Accommodate a range of housing and neighborhood types
      suitable for a variety of lifestyles, ages, affordability levels, and design options.
               “High quality neighborhoods are inclusive and welcome people at all stages of
               life. Housing affordability is integral to the long-term success of the City.
               Segregating housing by type, price, and size can lead to major divides in a
               community, most often along socioeconomic lines. This can ultimately lead to
               areas of higher crime, poverty, and other challenges. Ensuring neighborhoods
               include housing diversity minimizes the creation of these problem areas and leads
               to a more inclusive and diverse community.”

Our proposal would integrate affordability and inclusivity by diversifying housing options in the
area.

Compatibility with Existing Land Uses

Our request for HDR land designation would allow small-lot single family detached homes,
complementing the existing larger-lot single-family detached homes to the west, which feature
larger setbacks that provide a natural transition to smaller lots. Smaller residential lots would
provide a more compatible transition than large-lot residences between the commercial and
industrial uses that are planned to the east of the subject property.

Effect on the Character of the Surrounding Area

This amendment would positively contribute to the area by attracting families and growing the
community. Additional single family detached homes would maintain and enhance the character
of the existing neighborhood. There is no evidence to suggest that small-lot homes adjacent to
larger-lot homes negatively impact property values. Additionally, the proposed change would
have a minimal impact on the traffic flow of the existing neighborhood.

Gain to Public Health, Safety, and Welfare
The amendment would provide the following community benefits:
    Increased housing opportunities for the next generation of homeowners.
    Reduced commute times and enhanced quality of life by allowing residents to live closer
      to workplaces.
    Strengthened community ties by enabling residents to remain within the same social and
      support networks.
    More efficient land use, maximizing existing infrastructure investments.
    Increased development potential for future commercial and industrial uses to the east.

Please let us know if you have any questions.



Cameron Smith
Planning and Entitlement Specialist
camerons@fieldstonehomes.com
