       HARDMAN LEHI SUBDIVISION PLAT B PLAT AMENDMENT
                                PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant       AWA Engineering
                         Meeting Date        April 24, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose        Approval of a proposed plat amendment
                              Location       Approximately 2100 North 3600 West
     Existing General Plan Designation       Commercial
                       Existing Zoning       Commercial
                    Existing Land Use        Vacant
                 Number of Lots/Units        6 lots
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North Planned Community            Holbrook Farms Commercial
                                                South PF and R-3                   The Exchange Condos
                                                 East Commercial                   Maverick
                                                 West C-H (Heavy Commercial) Willow Point Townhomes
                    Date of DRC Review       April 2, 2025
                      Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                            REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.340. Vacating, Altering, or Amending a Recorded Subdivision Plat. (Amended 01/23/24)

A. The Planning Commission, following review by the Reviewing Departments, shall be the Land Use Authority
for approving any proposed vacation, alteration, or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision
plat, or any road or lot contained in a subdivision plat. The Planning Commission shall follow all requirements and
procedures identified in Utah State Code Section 10-9a-608.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

April 20, 2015             Property recorded as part of the Gardner Plumb Development Agreement.

October 26, 2016           Property recorded as part of the Hardman Lehi Subdivision Plat B plat.

March 26, 2019             Property recorded as part of the Garder Plumb Amended Development Agreement.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval of the Hardman Lehi Subdivision Plat B plat amendment. This proposed
amendment is to facilitate the construction of future commercial and retail buildings. The plat would amend lot
eight of the Hardman Lehi Subdivision Plat B and divide it into six lots. All lots meet the requirements of the
Commercial zone. There is no minimum lot size for the Commercial zone, and all lots meet the 60-foot frontage
requirement. Each site will be reviewed individually by the DRC when the applicants submit for site plan approval.

This property is part of the Gardner Plumb Development Agreement. The proposed plat amendment also meets all
requirements of the Development Agreement. The required water dedication will be required to be submitted at
each individual site plan.
The DRC had three redline comments, including:
1. Note on the plat that each lot will have to provide their own parking.

Please include all DRC comments in your motion.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed plat amendment. Any motion should include
findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed subdivision meets/does not meet the requirements of the Development Code.
    2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public meeting.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 2, 2025

                                            Hardman Lehi Plat B Plat Amendment
                                                 DRC Redline Comments

AWA Engineering – Requests review of a Plat Amendment for Hardman Lehi Subdivision Plat B, Lot 8 located at
approximately 2100 North 3600 West.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Shawn Young,
Date of Plans Reviewed: 03/24/25
Time Start: 3:10 PM
Time End: 3:15 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Brad – Fiber: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering:
1. Typo with PUE
Luke – Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
2. Note on the plat that each lot will have to provide their own parking.
3. Use standard Lehi plat template.


PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)

ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
   improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
   supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
   necessary supplies for the development.
5. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
6. Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).
7. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
   Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com). More information available at https://www.lehi-
   ut.gov/departments/water/storm-water/
8. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
   should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
9. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
   monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
   Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
   Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 2, 2025

STAFF
10. Address any comments or conditions from Planning Commission approval
11. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled
12. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Submit a title report to the planner over the project for review.
4. Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
   property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.
5. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
6. Provide a signed original copy of the CC&Rs to record with the plat (to be reviewed by City Attorney).
7. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.
STAFF
8. Send a digital copy of the plat to the County for review prior to accepting printed mylar.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
    on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
    the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
    off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
    made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
    sheet.
5. If the subject property is subject to the Gardner-Plumb agreement with Lehi City, the conditions of that agreement apply
    here.
6. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
    and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
7. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
8. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
    being granted.
9. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
    by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
10. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
    be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
    provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
    loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
    construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 24TH (PENDING ENVELOPES)

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
