                   STARBUCKS PYLON SIGN CONDITIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Valkyrie Signs
                         Meeting Date         April 24, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed pylon sign conditional use
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        2255 North 1200 West
                       Existing Zoning        Commercial
              General Plan Designation        Commercial
                    Existing Land Use         Starbucks
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North Commercial                Embold Apartments
                                                 South Commercial                Maverick
                                                  East County                    Undeveloped
                                                  West Commercial                Parking Lot
                     Date of DRC Review       April 9, 2025
                       Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.

The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest

                                                                                                                       1
Section 23.090. Regulations for Permanent Signs.

                    F.   Pylon Signs. On-premises pylon signs shall be allowed subject to the following:

                         1.   On commercial lots of three acres or larger, one pylon sign may be approved on each
                              collector or arterial street frontage.

                         2.   A pylon sign may be placed on a commercial lot or multi-tenant commercial project
                              less than three acres in size where:

                              a.   the lot is within 300 feet of the I-15 right-of-way;

                              b.   the lot is within 1,000 feet of an I-15 interchange;

                              c.   the sign is oriented for freeway viewing; and

                              d.   the sign is owned by a hotel, gas station, or restaurant.

                         3.   Pylon signs shall be allowed on any commercial lot or multi-tenant commercial pro-
                              ject having at least 300 feet of collector or arterial street frontage measured at the
                              front property line.

                         4.   a. Pylon sign height shall not exceed 25 feet, except the height may be increased as
                              per subsection 23.090.I.4.b. for commercial uses located both within 300 feet of the
                              I-15 right-of-way and 1,000 feet of an I-15 interchange.

                                   b.       Businesses that are adjacent to a freeway overpass or similar view-ob-
                                   scuring structure may request review by the Planning Commission for additional
                                   height. The Planning Commission shall approve only minimal additions to
                                   height to provide reasonable visibility above the view-obscuring structure. In all
                                   cases, the Planning Commission shall determine the allowable additional height,
                                   if any, on a site specific, case-by-case basis. In the determination of allowable
                                   additional height, the burden of proof shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
                                   In no case shall the height of a pylon sign exceed 70 feet.

                         5.   The measured height of a pylon sign shall be the distance from the highest point of
                              the sign to the top of the curb or sidewalk, or crown of the street when there is no
                              curb or sidewalk.

                         6.   The maximum size of a pylon sign shall not exceed 15% of the total square footage
                              for the building wall adjacent to the site's street frontage, or 200 square feet, which-
                              ever is less, except for multi-tenant commercial projects the Planning Commission
                              may allow additional sign area on a case-by-case basis, based on the number of ten-
                              ants displayed on the sign. In no case shall the total size of the pylon sign exceed 600
                              square feet.

                         7.   Pylon signs shall not extend over any pedestrian or vehicular access area.

                         8.   Structural supports for pylon signs shall be covered or concealed with pole covers.
                              For signs with one pole, the pole cover shall be a minimum of 48 inches wide. For a
                              sign with two poles, the pole covers shall be a minimum of 36 inches wide each.
                              Support covers shall be architecturally and aesthetically designed to match the build-
                              ing or associated development.

                                                                                                                     2
                           9.   Pylon signs shall be constructed so as to be an integral part of the overall design of
                                the site and architecturally compatible with the building and materials. All pylon
                                signs shall be part of an approved sign theme as per Section 23.140.

                           10. An electronic display on a pylon sign in a multi-tenant project may use 50 percent of
                               the allowable sign area.

                           11. For multi-parcel or multi-tenant retail-based projects of at least three acres, excep-
                               tions may be allowed by the Planning Commission as a conditional use provided that
                               an overall sign package for the project is established to create consistency in the
                               signage for the project. Increase in signage shall be approved on a site specific, case-
                               by-case basis. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide sufficient in-
                               formation and detail to justify the requested increase.

                           12. The design and placement of on-premises pylon signs for multi-tenant commercial
                               projects may vary from the regulations of this section and shall be considered as a
                               conditional use provided:

                                a.   the proposed sign exceptions are not in conflict with the purpose and intent of
                                     this Chapter; and

                                b.   the proposed sign is in architectural harmony with the development.


  PROPERTY HISTORY
February 10, 1998          Annexed into Lehi City as part of the Lehi Block Plant Annexation

March 12, 2019             City Council approved a concept plan for Lehi Block including office, housing, and retail
                           uses.

November 19, 2019          City Council denied the Lehi Block General Plan Land Use request for TOD designation.
                           And instead requested a development agreement be put in place.

December 10, 2019          City Council approved the final subdivision for the Lehi Block Site. Separating it into par-
                           cels and designating private roadways.

December 12, 2019          Planning Commission approved the Lehi Block Office Phase 1 Site Plan.

April 14, 2020             City Council approved the Lehi Block General Plan Land Use Designation from Industrial
                           to Commercial and the Lehi Block Development Agreement

May 12, 2020               City Council approved the Lehi Block Zone Change from Industrial to Commercial

March 14, 2024            The Planning Commission approved the Lehi Block Retail 1 Drive-Through Conditional
                          Use

  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Starbucks Pylon sign located at 2255 North 1200 West in the Commercial zone.
Pylon signs are designated as a conditional use. This pylon sign meets the Code requirements and is not asking for an
exception for more height. The Commission can still place reasonable conditions on the sign if there are any concerns
of impact to surrounding properties.

The DRC reviewed the proposed pylon sign and had two comments to update the site plan to show setbacks, which
the applicant has done, and to submit a building permit.


                                                                                                                         3
     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional uses are allowed uses that can have reasonable conditions put on them if there are impacts to surrounding
properties.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed conditional use and site plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed pylon sign meets all the regulations and is not requesting an exception.
2.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
3.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
4.    That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
      and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
      be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
5.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                        4
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 9, 2025

                                                      Starbucks Pylon Sign
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Valkyrie Signs- requests review of a Conditional Use for the Starbucks Pylon Sign located at 2255 North 1200 West in the
Commercial zone.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Derick Mansfield
Date of Plans Reviewed: 04/02/25
Time Start: 4:18pm
Time End: 4:24pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Provide the detail and dimensions requested previously or show by diagram and calculation what you claim in
    narrative.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
James – Parks: No comments
Arnie – Building/Inspections:
2. If approved, a separate application and plans will need to be submitted for a building permit.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 24th

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
