                  OLSEN FARMSTEAD PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant        Paul Olsen
                           Meeting Date         April 24, 2025
                Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation for a proposed preliminary
                                                subdivision
                           Decision Type        Administrative
                                Location        Approximately 600 South Center Street
       Existing General Plan Designation        LDR
                         Existing Zoning        RA-1
                      Existing Land Use         Undeveloped
                   Number of Lots/Units         2 lots
          Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North N/A                    Undeveloped
                                                   South R-1-Flex               UTA Rail Corridor
                                                    East N/A                    Undeveloped
                                                    West A-1                    Single family residential
                      Date of DRC Review        April 9, 2025
                        Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation or final approval
                             City Council       Final approval (Only for PUD, PRD, TOD, or Planned Community)


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code, in-
cluding review by the Reviewing Departments, and review and approval by the Planning Commission following a
public hearing.

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has
been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

February 7, 1995            This property was part of the Carl Stewart Annexation.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval of the Olsen Farmstead preliminary subdivision, a two-lot single family resi-
dential subdivision located at approximately 600 South Center Street. A final subdivision application was submitted
concurrently with the preliminary application because it is only for two lots. This report will discuss the layout of the
subdivision and the DRC comments.




Olsen Farmstead Preliminary Subdivision
Layout

The proposed subdivision is on 6.90 acres of property. Both lots meet the requirements of the RA-1 zone. The RA-1
zone has a minimum lot size requirement of 15,000 square feet, which both lots easily exceed at 0.72 acres and 6.17
acres. Each lot has 100 feet of frontage as well. Lot 2 has a narrow finger that wraps around Lot 1, but nothing in the
Code restricts the slightly irregular lot shape.

DRC Comments

There were seven redline comments from the DRC, including:

1. Install no-climb fence around the perimeter of the property. Note-a letter from the adjacent property owner can
waive this requirement.
2. Informational: A UDOT Diagnostic Review is required for land use changes within 1000 feet of a railroad crossing.
    The city cannot give final approval without going through this process. It will be triggered when you come back for
    review of what use you're proposing on these lots.
3. Change note to: Storm drain detention requirements for Center Street improvements, lot 1 and portions of lot 2 of
    have been met through payment in lieu of detention
4. For informational purposes: As part of this project, this ditch does not need to be piped.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Subdivisions are administrative items. If they meet the Code requirements they must be approved.

The public may speak to this item but they should recognize that this item will not be denied. The public may want to
bring up concerns or items the Planning Commission may not be aware of.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed preliminary subdivision. Any motion should
include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
         gards to subdivision approvals.
    2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Olsen Farmstead Preliminary Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 9, 2025

                                               Olsen Farmstead 2-lot Subdivision
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Paul Olsen- requests preliminary & final subdivision review of Olsen Farmstead, a 2-lot subdivision located at
approximately 600 South Center Street.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Weston Southwick, Mike Muelhman
Date of Plans Reviewed: 04/01/25
Time Start: 1:38 pm
Time End: 1:50 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. The Storm Drain is in conflict with the required PUE space.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks:
2. Install no-climb fence around the perimeter of the property. Note-a letter from the adjacent property owner can waive
this requirement.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
3. Adjust note #4 on the plat. This was a note on my last comments for information, if this note stays add, An approved system
     connected to the city storm drain system.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E.– Engineering:
4. Show on plat payment in lieu is only for this portion of the development
5. Change note to: Storm drain detention requirements for Center Street improvements, lot 1 and portions of lot 2 of have
     been met through payment in lieu of detention
6. For informational purposes: As part of this project, this ditch does not need to be piped.
Luke- Traffic: (lseegmiller@lehi-ut.gov)
7. Informational: A UDOT Diagnostic Review is required for land use changes within 1000 feet of a railroad crossing.
     The city cannot give final approval without going through this process. It will be triggered when you come back for
     review of what use you're proposing on these lots.
Kim – Planning: No comments

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)

ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
   improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
   supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
   necessary supplies for the development.
5. Reimbursement Agreement for any reimbursable improvement items must be in place.
6. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
   process.
7. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 9, 2025

8.  Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).
1.  Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
    Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com). More information available at https://www.lehi-
    ut.gov/departments/water/storm-water/
9. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
10. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
11. Need final approval from UDOT for railroad crossing.
STAFF
12. Address any comments or conditions from Planning Commission approval of the preliminary
13. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Submit a title report to the planner over the project for review.
4. Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
   property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.
5. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
6. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.

STAFF
7. Send a digital copy of the plat to the County for review prior to accepting printed mylar.

DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 24, 2025 FOR PRELIMINARY
PLAT APPROVAL AND THE APPLICANT CAN SUBMIT FINAL PLAT CHECKOFFS AFTER THE MEETING.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
