                   LEHI MAIN STREET PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                Applicant     Edge Homes
                            Meeting Date      April 24, 2025
                 Requested Action/Purpose     Public hearing, review, and recommendation for a proposed preliminary
                                              subdivision
                           Decision Type      Administrative
                                Location      Approximately 2600 West 400 South
       Existing General Plan Designation      Low-Density Residential (LDR)
                         Existing Zoning      R-1-15
                      Existing Land Use       Agrarian
                   Number of Lots/Units       83 lots
          Adjacent Zoning and Land Use          North RA-1, A-5               Jordan Willows, future Strata and
                                                                              Public Works Facility
                                                 South A-5, R-1-22            Agriculture, single-family residential
                                                  East TH-5                   Single-family residential
                                                  West RA-1                   Jordan Willows single family homes
                      Date of DRC Review      April 9, 2025
                        Assigned Planner      Katie Bussell

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission      Public hearing, review, and recommendation or final approval
                             City Council     Final approval (Only for PUD, PRD, TOD, or Planned Community)


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code, in-
cluding review by the Reviewing Departments, and review and approval by the Planning Commission following a
public hearing.

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has
been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.



  PROPERTY HISTORY

September 18, 2024                  The property was recorded as part of the Walt Plumb Development Agreement,
                                    which permitted a maximum of 88 units.

April 13, 2023                      The Lehi Planning Commission recommended approval of the Main Street
                                    Meadows Zone Change.

November 17, 2022                   The Lehi Planning Commission recommended denial a General Plan




Lehi Main Street Preliminary Subdivision
                                    Amendment request to change the general plan from Very Low-Density Resi-
                                    dential Agriculture (VLDRA) to Low-Density Residential (LDR).


  REPORT ANALYSIS

Edge Homes is requesting review and approval of the Lehi Main Street Preliminary Subdivision. This is an 83-unit
subdivision located at approximately 2600 West 400 South. This property is part of the Walt Plumb Development
Agreement. This report will discuss how the property meets the requirements of the development agreement and the
DRC comments.

Development Agreement
This property is part of the Walt Plumb Development Agreement. The development agreement required that there
were a maximum of 88 units that could be built on the subject property. The current layout of the subdivision shows
83 units. The development agreement also states that the lots were to meet the requirements of the R-1-15 zone with
the exception that all lots would be a minimum lot size of 12,000 square feet instead of 15,000 square feet. All other
setback requirements and frontage requirements are required to meet the R-1-15 standards. The developer has met
these requirements as all lots are a minimum of 12,000 square feet, and all frontages meet the 100-foot frontage of
the R-1-15 zone.

The developer was also required to provide a sufficiently-sized public utility easement from 700 South to the
Strata/City property line. Edge Homes has provided this by indicating all public utility and road construction ease-
ments are in favor of Lehi City.

The development agreement also requires that there are two points of access into the subdivision; one on 560 South
and one on 2500 West. The developer has provided these accesses. The development agreement also requires a future
access point to the east, toward 2300 West. Edge Homes has provided a future road stub to the future access that will
eventually connect through to 2300 West.

Finally, the development agreement required Edge Homes to install a master planned trail that would connect the
Power Line Trail to the 700 South Cycle Track. Edge Homes has provided this along 2710 West, and the trail will
run through Parcel’s A and B on the plat.

DRC Comments
There were 12 redline comments from the DRC, including:
1. What is the easement size of the easement along the back of lots 1-19?

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Subdivisions are administrative items. If they meet the Code requirements they must be approved.

The public may speak to this item but they should recognize that this item will not be denied. The public may want to
bring up concerns or items the Planning Commission may not be aware of.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed preliminary subdivision. Any motion should
include findings. Possible findings include:




Lehi Main Street Preliminary Subdivision
    1.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
         gards to subdivision approvals.
    2.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Walt Plumb Development Agreement.
    3.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Lehi Main Street Preliminary Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         April 9, 2025

                                                       Lehi Main Street
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Edge Homes- requests preliminary subdivision review of Lehi Main Street, an 83-lot single family subdivision located at
approximately 2600 West 400 South.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Brandon Watson, Brady Morris
Date of Plans Reviewed: 03/27/25
Time Start: 2:30 PM
Time End: 2:50 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Off-site line extension & equipment relocation required. Clarify property ownership or easement that allows us to
    relocate power equipment at Parcel A.
2. How does this work with current boundaries and ownership? linework for road, sidewalk, existing equipment on the
    S.W. near parcel A.
3. Provide power access thru lot 60 to parcel North. Remove valve from PUE.
4. Provide power access thru lot 67 to parcel North.
5. Relocate duplicate Storm Drain structures to accommodate power line and equipment as shown C-400
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
6. move water services on lot 16 to avoid tee on hydrant.
7. install all 4 valves flanged to tee for blow offs add 90 bend in planter stripe.
8. shift water services so they are not going threw valves.
A. Final
          a. Will need Lehi City Irrigation approval.
James – Parks:
9. Provide landscaping plans for the basin and two trail connections
10. Can these corridors on the north side of the subdivision be landscaped with trees next to the 10' trail or will other
    utilities/access restrict what can be done through here?
Arnie/Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
11. Question only – will you be planning in a land drain system to connect foundation drains?
12. What is the easement size of the easement along the back of lots 1-19?
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E.– Engineering: No comments.
Luke- Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
A. Final plat/general comments:
          a. Rename 315 South to 360 South
          b. A wetlands study will be required to determine if there are regulated wetlands on the property.
          c. The max block length and superblock connectivity requirements will require an exception. In this case, the
               exception is warranted due to existing adjacent development.
          d. Consider a wider ADA ramp on the corner of Lot 83 to eliminate zig-zag trail movements but also pickup
               crossings from the ramp on the corner of Lot 35. Currently, the trail effectively doesn't meet the 40-foot
               centerline radius as this is shown. (this comment can be general since this is final plat level detail)
          e. Include what type of subdivision this is (final plat)
          f. Include a summary table and standard setbacks for the final plat.
          g. Show a bike-only ramp to the street where the trail connects between Lots 67 and 68. A bike-only ramp has
               directional tiles along the edge of sidewalk (see Lehi standard drawing RD-19). (can be a general comment
               since this is final plat level of detail)


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         April 9, 2025

         h.   At time of final plat, note ramp widths for the trail to ensure they match the width of the trail, 10’ in this case
              and the detectable tiles should also go the full width.


PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)

ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
    landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
    Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
    improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
    supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
    necessary supplies for the development.
5. Reimbursement Agreement for Powerline Corridor trail connection where it extends outside of the project boundary
    must be in place.
6. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
    process.
7. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
8. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
    Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com). More information available at https://www.lehi-
    ut.gov/departments/water/storm-water/
9. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
10. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
    Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
    agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
11. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
12. Address any comments or conditions from Planning Commission approval of the preliminary
13. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled
14. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Submit a title report to the planner over the project for review.
4. Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
   property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.
5. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
6. Provide a recorded copy of required boundary line agreement(s).
7. Provide a signed original copy of the CC&Rs to record with the plat (to be reviewed by City Attorney).
8. Warranty deed/title insurance (open space, detention, City park property, City trails, some road dedication). Title
   insurance policies on each to be obtained through Marnae at Affiliated First Title 801-610-1670
9. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         April 9, 2025

1.   On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
     on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
     the building permit.
2.   Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3.   Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4.   Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
     off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
     made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
     sheet.
5.   Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
     and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6.   All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7.   All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
     being granted.
8.   The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
     by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9.   Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
     be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
     provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
     loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
     construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 24TH (PENDING ENVELOPES).

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                3 of 3
