                      SKYLINE PROPERTIES PLAT AMENDMENT
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        K2 Land Development
                         Meeting Date         April 24, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Approval of a proposed plat amendment
                              Location        1667 North Boston Street
     Existing General Plan Designation        Light Industrial
                       Existing Zoning        Light Industrial
                    Existing Land Use         Vacant
                 Number of Lots/Units         2
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North Light Industrial       Future Curb Cart Concrete
                                                 South Light Industrial      Vacant
                                                  East Light Industrial      Caliber Collision
                                                  West Saratoga Springs      Residential
                     Date of DRC Review       April 2, 2025
                       Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.340. Vacating, Altering, or Amending a Recorded Subdivision Plat. (Amended 01/23/24)

A. The Planning Commission, following review by the Reviewing Departments, shall be the Land Use Authority
for approving any proposed vacation, alteration, or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision
plat, or any road or lot contained in a subdivision plat. The Planning Commission shall follow all requirements and
procedures identified in Utah State Code Section 10-9a-608.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

August 29, 2024            The property was recorded as part of the Skyline Subdivision.

March 11, 2024             Lehi City changed the zoning of the property from TH-5 to Light Industrial.

September 28, 2020         The property boundary line adjusted to be annexed into Lehi City.

November 3, 1992           The property recorded as part of the Country Mile Plat A subdivision.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval of an amendment to the Skyline Subdivision to consolidate lots 3 and 4 into
one lot. This is to help facilitate the construction of an industrial building. The amended plat meets all requirements
of the Light Industrial zone. There is a minimum 20,000 square foot lot size for Light Industrial. The lot is now
46,177 square feet. The Light Industrial zone also requires a frontage of 60 feet, and the new lot has a frontage of
171 feet. The site plan for the amended lot will be reviewed by the DRC at a later date and will be required to meet
all other elements of the Development Code, including setbacks and building elevations.
The DRC had two redline comments, including:
1. Show existing 10’ PUE and RCE
2. Include in plat notes: commercial sites developed within these lots shall be required to provide reciprocal ac-
    cess-ways and utility access to adjoining lots.

Please include all DRC comments in your motion.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed plat amendment. Any motion should include
findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed subdivision meets/does not meet the requirements of the Development Code.
    2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public meeting.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 2, 2025

                                              Skyline Properties Plat Amendment
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

CIR Engineering – requests review of the Skyline Properties Subdivision Plat Amendment, located at approximately 1645
North Boston Street, combining lots 3 and 4 into one lot.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 03/25/25
Time Start: 4:00 PM
Time End: 4:05 PM


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Show existing 10’ PUE & RCE
Brad – Fiber: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering:
2. Include in plat notes:
    Commercial sites developed within these lots shall be required to provide reciprocal cross access-ways and utility
    access to adjoining lots.
Luke – Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning: No comments.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 24TH (PENDING ENVELOPES).

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Submit a title report to the planner over the project for review.
4. Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
   property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.
5. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
6. Provide a signed original copy of the CC&Rs to record with the plat (to be reviewed by City Attorney).
7. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.
STAFF
8. Send a digital copy of the plat to the County for review prior to accepting printed mylar.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
