                                     7-ELEVEN CONCEPT PLAN
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant        RFK Properties
                          Meeting Date         April 24, 2025
              Requested Action/Purpose         Approval of an exception to the development code for a concept plan
                         Decision Type         Administrative
                               Location        Approximately 3600 West Waterbury Drive
                           Project Area        1.92 acres
                        Existing Zoning        Planned Community – PC
      General Plan Land Use Designation        Commercial
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North PC               Holbrook Farms Townhomes
                                                  South PC               Future commercial pad
                                                   East PC               McDonalds, medical office
                                                   West PC               Vacant
                       Date of DRC Review      April 9, 2025
                         Assigned Planner      Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission       Public hearing, review, and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.

Section 37.010. Nonresidential Design Standards
(Amended 07/30/19; 09/24/19, 11/14/23)

    1.   Exceptions:

    Exceptions to Section 37.010 may be approved by the Planning Commission provided the following:

         a. The applicant shall provide evidence that the exception to the design standards improves the design quality,
            walkability/bike-ability, or ability conduct the proposed use on the subject property, as determined by the
            Planning Commission.

         b. The applicant shall provide justification on how the proposed project fits in with the purpose and vision of
            the design standards district in which it is located.



  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and approval of an exception to the development code for the 7-Eleven Concept Plan
located at approximately 3600 West and Waterbury Drive. The exception the applicant is requesting is the maximum
setback found in the Chapter 37 Design Standards. The maximum setback from any building to a public road is 50
feet. The applicant wishes to place the building approximately 90 feet back from Waterbury Drive, which is a public




7-Eleven Concept Plan
road. A large landscaping buffer will be placed between the building and the street, and parking will be located on
the side of the building. The applicant has also expressed interest in moving their current pavilion seating to behind
the building where the larger setback is being requested to provide seating opportunities. It is up to the Planning
Commission to determine if an exception is warranted in this case.

As this is a concept plan the applicant will return with a site plan submission at a later date. At that time all other
elements of the code must be met, including the architectural requirements. Staff and the DRC will continue to work
the applicant to improve the design of their building as they move through the site plan process.

This property is part of the Holbrook Farms Area Plan. Gas stations are permitted uses in the Commercial zone within
the Holbrook Farms Area Plan. All other elements of the Holbrook Farms Area Plan are met.

DRC Comments
There were 16 redline comments from the DRC, many of which were informational requirements for the site plan
application. Some of note include:
1. Submit a plat amendment application to consolidate the two lots into one.
2. Max setback of 50’ is required by Code. An exception from the Planning Commission will be required.
3. Stucco and EIFS may be used up to 30% of each wall area and as a secondary material only.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a concept plan this is an administrative item. If it meets the Code it must be approved. The applicant asks for an
exception to the Chapter 37 Design Standards to increase the maximum setback of 50 feet from a building to a public
street.

The Planning Commission has some level of discretion to grant this exception.

This is a public hearing item. Comments focused on specific concerns and ways to mitigate them are the most
beneficial. The public should also be aware that the Planning Commission can only require those items listed in the
Development Code.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve, approve with modifications, or deny the proposed concept plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
    2. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Holbrook Farms Area Plan.
    3. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    4. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




7-Eleven Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 9, 2025

                                                      7-Eleven Concept Plan
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

RFK Properties- requests review of the 7-Eleven Concept Plan located at approximately 3600 West Waterbury Dr.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Christie Hutchings, Mike McFarlen, Alexis Riggs, Ryan Forsyth
Date of Plans Reviewed: 04/01/25
Time Start: 2:05 PM
Time End: 2:30 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Do not split PUE space with curbing.
2. Indicate power service size and location.
3. Provide power load work sheet. https://www.lehi-ut.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/LoadEstimatorSheet.pdf
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
4. This was developed as Holbrook Farms plat K phase 1 there is existing fire lines water services and sewer laterals
    stubbed into these two lots. Abandoning of services in roadway will come with site plans.
James – Parks:
5. If this moves past concept, a landscaping plan will be required. The project owner is responsible for the landscaping up
    to the curb on 3600 West and Waterbury. The project owner will be responsible for the maintenance of the landscaped
    areas.
Arnie/Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
6. A soil report will be required if this moves past concept.
Shelbey – Public Works:
A. Prior to precon:
         a. SWPPP will be required prior to precon
         b. SSOMP (formerly LTSWMP) will be required prior to precon
Gary E. – Engineering:
7. Boundary dimensions and bearings are slightly different than the County records (typ)
8. Provide location of retention basin, or narrative of plan to handle the storm water drainage, at site plan.
Luke – Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
9. The west side of the building could be an excellent location for bike parking. Requires 4 spaces or two inverted Us.
    And 4 long term parking (Ch 37, Bike Parking Table). Could be provided in the building or outside in an enclosed area.
10. Ensure building does not cross any property lines of new subdivision (Holbrook Plat K).
11. Submit a plat amendment application to consolidate the two lots into one.
12. Max setback of 50' is required by Code. An exception from the Planning Commission will be required. (Ch 37).
13. 10% of the parking area shall be landscaped (Ch 37).
14. Stucco and EIFS may be used up to 30% of each wall area and as a secondary material only (Ch 37).
15. Building entrances shall include at least one of the following: (Ch 37, State Highway Design District)
    a. roof tower feature
    b. pitched roof feature
    c. parapet extensions
    d. articulations in the façade
16. Each building facade shall include at least three of the following features: (Ch 37, State Highway Design District)
    a. columns or pilasters
    b. decorative cornice
    c. awnings or canopies


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 9, 2025

   d. covered walkways
   e. decorative lighting
   f. string course
   g. wainscot of a minimum 30 inches in height except for under windows
A. Considerations/recommendations
         a. Recommend moving outdoor tables to the north side of the building, so they have a bigger buffer between the
              seating and busy roadway
         b. Consider looking at the Maverick design on 1200 West North of I-15 interchange or 1100 West south of
              Pioneer Crossing for ideas on how to meet architectural requirements.




DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).

THIS ITEM IS/IS NOT REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.
(An exception requires stamped addressed envelopes for public noticing if the project proceeds to Planning Commission)

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 24TH (PENDING ENVELOPES).




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
