                                COLD SPRING BUSINESS PARK
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Gardner Company
                          Meeting Date        April 24, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Extension of development approval
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        Approximately Redwood Road and Cold Spring Drive
                           Project Area       22.19 acres
                       Existing Zoning        PC – Planned Community
     General Plan Land Use Designation        Commercial
                     Existing Land Use        Agrarian
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North PC                    Timpanogos Medical Center
                                                 South PC                   Cold Spring Retail and storage
                                                  East PC                   Townhomes
                                                  West Saratoga Springs     Residential
                     Date of DRC Review       March 26, 2025
                       Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission       Final approval
                            City Council      No action required


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 10.130. Extension of Development Approval. (New 07/28/09; Amended 07/10/12)
    A. Up to a one-year extension of a development approval may be granted by the Planning Commission or City
        Council, as applicable, based on the body that granted the original approval, upon a finding that special
        circumstances exist that warrant such an extension.

    B. All requests for an extension are subject to the following:

        1.   An extension shall be requested by the applicant within 30 days of the expiration of the original
             development approval. However, the approval of an extension will be based on the date of the original
             approval, not on the date the application for extension is filed or approved.

        2.   Requests for an extension of a development approval shall be made in writing and shall set forth the
             reasons why an extension is necessary and should be granted.

        3.   Where bonding is deemed necessary as part of the development approval, a new bond will be required
             to take into account any changes in costs to match prevailing conditions for the construction and
             installation of all required improvements.

        4.   All requests for an extension shall be reviewed by the Reviewing Departments prior to approval by the
             approving body. The Reviewing Departments shall consider the following factors and make appropriate
             recommendations to the approving body:
             (a) whether the original conditions of approval are still appropriate based on current requirements of
             the Lehi City Development Code and the Lehi City Design Standards and Public Improvement
             Specifications Manual;
             (b) whether any ordinance changes have occurred or are being considered that may affect the activity
             or project authorized by the development approval;
             (c) whether any changes in infrastructure or surrounding land uses have occurred that would affect the
             activity or project authorized by the development approval;




Cold Spring Business Park
              (d) the length of time since the original approval was granted; and
              (e) any other applicable factors that would affect the viability of the previous approval.

         5.   If the Reviewing Departments determine that changes to the approved plans are necessary to meet
              current standards, and the applicant is willing to make the changes, an extension may be granted subject
              to the changes.

    C. If a final plat which covers only a portion of an approved preliminary plat is recorded within the two -year
       time limit or extension thereof, the validity of the unrecorded portion of the preliminary plat shall
       automatically be extended for two years from the date of recording the final plat

Section 11.260. Site Plan Approval Process. (Amended 5/22/01; 08/13/02; 11/09/04; 10/11/22; 08/22/23)
The review and approval process for a site plan shall be as follows:

   A. Permitted Uses.

          1. Site plans associated with a permitted use require review and approval by the Reviewing Departments. Site
             Plans requesting exceptions to Code requirements require approval by the Planning Commission for the
             requested exceptions. The Reviewing Departments may require that the approval of a site plan be forwarded
             to the Planning Commission if they determine the standards in the Development Code are unclear, or that
             the project is likely to have extenuating or unforeseen impacts beyond what would normally be expected on
             issues such as traffic, lighting, or compatibility of uses.

  B. Conditional Uses. The approval process for Site Plans associated with a Conditional Use shall be the same as that
  required for the issuance of a Conditional Use Permit as outlined in Section 09.020, including review by the Reviewing
  Departments and approval by the Planning Commission following a public hearing.

  C. All new development projects or exterior ren-ovations to existing buildings located within the boundaries of the
  Historic District shall receive additional review by the Historic Preservation Commission. The Commission, acting in
  an advisory role, provides input to assist in the implementation of the vision of the Historic District. If input from the
  Commission is provided, it shall be submitted prior to final review and approval.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

March 23, 2023             The Lehi Planning Commission approved the Cold Spring Business Park Phase 1. The
                           approval expired on March 23, 2025.

March 29, 2018             The property was recorded as part of the Cold Spring Ranch area plan.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests an extension for the Cold Spring Business Park Phase 1 approved in 2023 by the Planning
Commission to better analyze the industrial market. The previously approved Cold Spring Business Park lies
within the Cold Spring Ranch area plan. The use of the property will be office/warehouse, which is considered a
conditional use under the Cold Spring Ranch area plan. There were no conditions placed on the original approval of
the site plan.

The applicant stated in their narrative that they are requesting an 18-month expansion. The Development Code only
allows a year-long extension. The DRC has noted this and made the applicant aware. If approved, the deadline for
expiration would be April 24, 2027.

The DRC reviewed the proposed expansion and had four redline comments, please consider including all
comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL


Cold Spring Business Park
Site plan extensions are an administrative item. This means that the Planning Commission must approve it if it meets
Code. The Planning Commission also may only require what is required by the Development Code. They may make
suggestions but the applicant only needs to meet Code requirements.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or approve with modifications based on Code requirements the
proposed Cold Spring Business Park Extension of Approval. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings
include:

    1.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and
         policies of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
    2.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate
         size and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that
         it will not be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
    3.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public meeting.




Cold Spring Business Park
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 26, 2025

                                             Cold Spring Business Park Extension
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Gardner- requests review of an extension of approval for the Cold Spring Business Park site plan.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: N/A
Date of Plans Reviewed: 03/18/25
Time Start: 4:00 PM
Time End: 4:00 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Brad – Fiber: No comments.
Garion – Fire:
1. Insert Fire Department Standard Detail. WT-15
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks:
2. Review and update landscaping to reflect current code requirement of 30 trees per site acre. Show table of total site
    acreage, with requisite trees required.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments.
Luke – Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
3. Per Chapter 10, extensions can only be granted for one year.
4. The area is zoned Commercial per the Cold Spring Ranch area plan. Any uses would have to conform to the approved
    uses in the area plan.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAILGATE, NONE)


ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
   must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
   process.
5. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
6. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
   Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com). More information available at https://www.lehi-
   ut.gov/departments/water/storm-water/
7. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
   should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
8. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
   Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
   agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 26, 2025

9.  Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
10. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
11. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
12. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.

THIS ITEM IS/IS NOT REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.
(An exception requires stamped addressed envelopes for public noticing if the project proceeds to Planning Commission)

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 10TH. (PENDING ENVELOPES)
PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
           Cold Spring Business Park Extension Narrative

Gardner-Plumb is requesting an 18-month extension for the site plan approval to allow more
time to monitor the industrial market and ensure we proceed strategically. While we anticipate
strong future opportunities, we want to be responsible with our timing to align with market
conditions and maximize the project's success.

Recently, we've seen an uptick in interest from several groups looking at Cold Spring Business
Park for an industrial building, reinforcing our belief that demand is growing. This extension will
provide the flexibility needed to make informed decisions based on evolving demand, ensuring
the development is well-positioned for long-term viability.

Our original site plan approval date was March 23, 2023. With the 18th-month extension,
approval would be extended until October 2026, with the exact October date dependent on the
Planning Commission's approval of this extension.
