                                   FABIAN HOUSE 2 CONCEPT
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                            Applicant         Mark Jenkins
                        Meeting Date          April 24, 2025
            Requested Action/Purpose          Review and consideration of a concept plan
                       Decision Type          Administrative
                             Location         585 East 200 South
                         Project Area         0.85 acres
                      Existing Zoning         MU
    General Plan Land Use Designation         NC
       Adjacent Zoning and Land Use              North TH-5            Single family residential
                                                 South R-1-8           Southtowne Plat C Subdivision
                                                  East C               Medallion Supported Living Center
                                                  West MU              Karl Malone Center
                     Date of DRC Review       April 9, 2025
                       Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.

Section 37.060. Parking Standards
The following minimum landscaped setback and separation shall be required for all surface parking lots, unless otherwise
approved by the Planning Commission:

    a.   20 feet from public road rights-of-way; and
    b.   ten feet from perimeter property lines.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of the Fabian House 2 Concept Plan located at 585 East 200 South.
The proposed use is for a remodel of the existing home into a school building on the 0.85-acre lot. The purpose of this
concept application is to receive approval for an exception to the Development Code to allow a surface parking lot
along 200 S.

The proposed concept plan is for a permitted use in the mixed-use zone. They will need to provide final elevations for
review with the site plan submittal to verify they meet the requirements of the Roller Mills Design District. They are
only at this Planning Commission meeting to review the proposed parking lot on the south side of the existing home.
They do show 29 total parking spaces with seven of those coming from this portion of the property. The Code would
require that the parking lot be setback 20 feet from the road right-of-way. The concept plan does not include dimensions
for the current setback, but it clearly does not meet the Code provision.




Fabian House 2 Concept Plan
The DRC had ten redline comments, including the following:

1.    Provide show and label PUE at all road frontages. 15’ width is required where no park strip exists for water meters
      and hydrants. 10’ width otherwise. The easements must be recorded prior to precon.
2.    If the building will not be equipped with fire sprinklers, every classroom will be required to have a door leading
      directly to the exterior.
3.    Need to complete the sidewalk along 600 E.
4.    An exception would be required to allow the parking lot on 200 S to be closer than 20 feet to the road ROW.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a concept plan this is an administrative item. If it meets the Code it must be approved. The applicant asks for an
exception to the parking standards.

The Planning Commission has some level of discretion to grant these exceptions.

This is a public hearing item. Comments focused on specific concerns and ways to mitigate them are the most
beneficial. The public should also be aware that the Planning Commission can only require those items listed in the
Development Code.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve, approve with modifications, or deny the proposed concept plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
      2. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
      3. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Fabian House 2 Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 9, 2025

                                                     Fabian House 2 Concept
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Mark Jenkins- requests review of the Fabian House 2 Concept Plan located at 585 East 200 South in the Mixed Use zone.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Cori Fabian
Date of Plans Reviewed: 04/01/25
Time Start: 1:25 pm
Time End:

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Provide show and label PUE at all road frontages. 15’ width is required where no park strip exists for water meters and
    hydrants. 10’ width otherwise. The easements must be recorded prior to precon.
2. Currently served by RMP – This development will trigger an ATA (purchase). We are currently evaluating that cost.
3. At Site Plan, provide a completed power load work sheet. https://www.lehi-ut.gov/wp-
    content/uploads/2020/04/LoadEstimatorSheet.pdf
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire:
4. If the building will not be equipped with fire sprinklers, every classroom will be required to have a door leading
    directly to the exterior.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
5. Existing 3/4 culinary service and 1'' pi service
James – Parks:
6. Provide landscaping plan that meets the Lehi City Development Code landscaping requirements.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
7. A building permit will be required for the addition.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments until Site Plan
Gary E. – Engineering:
8. At final site plan, show location of storm water detention basin.
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
9. Need to complete the sidewalk along 600 E.
10. An exception would be required to allow the parking lot on 200 S to be closer than 20 feet to the road ROW.

DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).

THIS ITEM MAY WORK ON A FINAL SITE PLAN OR GO TO PLANNING COMMISSION ON APRIL 24, 2025 IF
THEY WANT TO GET THE EXCEPTION APPROVED. ENVELOPES WOULD BE REQUIRED BY APRIL 11TH FOR
PUBLIC NOTICING. PLEASE COORDINATE WITH JACOB IN PLANNING.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
