                         VISTAS AT THE POINT AMENITIES REVISION
                                          PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant                    Clyde Capital Group
                           Meeting Date                    May 8, 2025
              Requested Action/Purpose                     Approval of a proposed site plan
                          Decision Type                    Administrative
                               Location                    Approximately Traverse Mountain Blvd and Mountain Point Blvd
                        Existing Zoning                    Transit Oriented Development (TOD)
      General Plan Land Use Designation                    Transit Oriented Development (TOD)
                      Existing Land Use                    Vistas at the Point (under construction)
                    Date of DRC Review                     April 30, 2025
                       Assigned Planner                    Brittney Harris

                                                          REQUIRED ACTION
                        Planning Commission                Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.260. Site Plan Approval Process.
Permitted Uses.
       1. Site plans associated with a permitted use require review an approval by the Reviewing Departments. Site
    Plans requesting exceptions to Code requirements require approval by the Planning Commission for the requested
    exceptions. The Reviewing Departments may require that the approval of a site plan be forwarded to the Planning
    Commission if they determine the standards in the Development Code are unclear, or that the project is likely to
    have extenuating or unforeseen impacts beyond what would normally be expected on issues such as traffic,
    lighting, or compatibility of uses.

                                           TABLE 37.070
                        MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT AMENITIES REQUIREMENTS
                                                                   (Amended 01/10/23)


      # UNITS          PICNIC              SPORTS            PLAYGROUND/                   CLUB HOUSE             POOL/TENNIS
                       AREA                COURT               DOG PARK                                         COURT/SPLASH PAD
      10-30               2                   1                    1                              -                     -
      31-50               4                   1                    2                              -                     -
      51-100              6                   1                    2                     1 – Min 750 Sq. Ft.            -
      101-200             8                   1                    3                     1 – Min 750 Sq. Ft.            1
      201-300            10                   2                    4                     1 – Min 750 Sq. Ft.            1
      301-400            12                   2                    5                    1 – Min 1,500 Sq. Ft.           2
      401-500            14                   2                    6                    1 – Min 1,500 Sq. Ft.           2
      501+               16                   2                    7                    1 – Min 2,000 Sq. Ft.           2
         *Amenities may be combined into upgraded amenities at the discretion of the Planning Commission.


Section 37.020. Multi-Family Residential Design Standards.
Amenities. Each multi-family project with ten units or more shall include amenities for the residents of the project as
per Table 37.080 of the Development Code. Because each project will be different in nature, the amenities are likely
to be different. The amount of amenities required shall be in proportion to the proposed number of units in the
development. The required number of amenities is listed in Table 37.080 Multi-Family Development Amenities
Requirements. Amenities shall be provided according to project size or comparable equivalent amenities as required
or recommended by the Planning Commission and, as approved by the City Council, if required.



  PROPERTY HISTORY


Vistas at the Point Amenities Revisions
December 12, 2017           City Council approved a general plan amendment to add a TOD land use designation

April 23, 2019              City Council approved the Vistas at the Point Concept Plan

August 31, 2020             Property came into Lehi as part of the Goulding Annexation

August 26, 2021             The Planning Commission approved the Vistas at the Point Preliminary Subdivision and
                            substitution of amenities

September 7, 2021           City Council approved the Vistas at the Point Preliminary Subdivision


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of revisions to the approved amenities to remove the amphitheater from the
required amenities.

The Planning Commission approved a substitution of amenities on August 26, 2021. With 404 apartment and
townhome units the applicant needed to provide 14 picnic areas, 2 sports courts, 6 playgrounds/dog parks, a
clubhouse at least 1,500 square feet in size and 2 pools, tennis courts, or splash pads. The applicant proposed the
regional trail through their site with an overlook park at the top, a clubhouse, and an amphitheater. This proposal
was approved in 2021.

The applicant now requests removing the amphitheater from the amenities. In other words, they would like to just
provide the regional trail and the clubhouse.

Staff has concerns that removing the amphitheater does not represent an equivalent cost comparison to the required
amenities. The Goulding Annexation Agreement that included the requirements for the Transit Oriented
Development zone, required community gathering spaces. The amphitheater met this requirement and removing it
without a substitution does not provide for a gathering space. Staff would recommend a substitution for a plaza
space or park instead of the amphitheater.

The Planning Commission makes the decision on approving any substitutions to the required amenities, including
this removal of the amphitheater. In doing so the Planning Commission should consider if the equivalent cost is
met and if it meets the intent of the Transit Oriented Development requirements.

The DRC reviewed the proposed amenity revision and had seven redline comments including:
1. The assessment is that the amended amenities proposed in this document are not equivalent and vary
    significantly from the original approved amenities package.
2. We typically call a 5 foot trail a sidewalk.
3. The Golding Annexation Development Agreement/ Vistas at the Point TOD Land Use Plan states that the trail
    would be required to go through the development. It also includes this statement.

      Owners shall ensure that the design of any development meets the intent of a TOD which is pedestrian friendly and
      enhances the opportunity of gathering and interactions. and building of community within the open spaces.

      Removing the amphitheater will eliminate a key gathering place in the TOD. What will be put in place of the
      amphitheater? This also creates a building free buffer between the buildings and flight park.
4.    Trail connections are required for all developments next to master planned trails.
5.    Retaining walls are not usually considered an amenity.
6.    Does the apartment clubhouse serve the townhomes? If not it should not be counted for the townhome amenity
      requirement.
7.    The square footage of the clubhouse includes a lot of square footage that is not usable space by the residents. With
      what is listed and the square footage, it seems like a pretty standard clubhouse, pool, etc. Not above and beyond the
      code requirement.




Vistas at the Point Amenities Revisions
  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

The Planning Commission approves any substitutions to required amenities this should be based on equivalent cost
and provide the same quality.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed site plan. Any motion should include findings.
Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed amenities are/ are not of equivalent value to the amenities required by the Code.
    2.   The proposed amenities meet/ do not meet the intent and requirements of the TOD zone.
    3.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public meeting.




Vistas at the Point Amenities Revisions
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 30, 2025

                                                  Vistas at the Point Amenities
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Clyde Capital Group- requests review of revisions to the Vistas at the Point Preliminary Subdivision plans removing the
amphitheater amenity.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: none
Date of Plans Reviewed: 04/22/25
Time Start: 3:24pm
Time End: 3:26pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks:
1. The assessment is that the amended amenities proposed in this document are not equivalent and vary significantly from
    the original approved amenities package.
2. We typically call this a sidewalk.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
3. The Golding Annexation Development Agreement/ Vistas at the Point TOD Land Use Plan states that the trail would
    be required to go through the development. It also includes this statement.

     Owners shall ensure that the design of any development meets the intent of a TOD which is pedestrian friendly and
     enhances the opportunity of gathering and interactions. and building of community within the open spaces.

     Removing the amphitheater will eliminate a key gathering place in the TOD. What will be put in place of the
     amphitheater? This also creates a building free buffer between the buildings and flight park.
4.   Trail connections are required for all developments next to master planned trails.
5.   Retaining walls are not usually considered an amenity.
6.   Does the apartment clubhouse serve the townhomes? If not it should not be counted for the townhome amenity
     requirement.
7.   The square footage of the clubhouse includes a lot of square footage that is not usable space by the residents. With
     what is listed and the square footage, it seems like a pretty standard clubhouse, pool, etc. Not above and beyond the
     code requirement.



THIS ITEM IS SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MAY 8th




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
