      TEXAS ROADHOUSE ADDITION SITE PLAN WITH EXCEPTIONS
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant         Bernahl Development Services
                          Meeting Date         May 8, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose          Approval of an addition to an existing building with exceptions
                         Decision Type         Administrative
                              Location         1402 East Main Street
                           Project Area        0.35 acres
                       Existing Zoning         Commercial
     General Plan Land Use Designation         Commercial
                     Existing Land Use         Existing Texas Roadhouse
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use              North Commercial             Swig/Checker Flag
                                                  South Commercial             Strip Mall
                                                   East Commercial             Chase Bank
                                                   West Commercial             Culver’s
                      Date of DRC Review       December 4, 2024
                        Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.260. Site Plan Approval Process.
Permitted Uses.
       1. Site plans associated with a permitted use require review an approval by the Reviewing Departments. Site
    Plans requesting exceptions to Code requirements require approval by the Planning Commission for the requested
    exceptions. The Reviewing Departments may require that the approval of a site plan be forwarded to the Planning
    Commission if they determine the standards in the Development Code are unclear, or that the project is likely to have
    extenuating or unforeseen impacts beyond what would normally be expected on issues such as traffic, lighting, or
    compatibility of uses.

Section 37.010. Exceptions.
    1. Exceptions:

    Exceptions to Section 37.010 may be approved by the Planning Commission provided the following:

         a. The applicant shall provide evidence that the exception to the design standards improves the design quality,
            walkability/bike-ability, or ability conduct the proposed use on the subject property, as determined by the
            Planning Commission.

         b. The applicant shall provide justification on how the proposed project fits in with the purpose and vision of
            the design standards district in which it is located.

         c. Exceptions may be granted to allow parking between the building and street, however in the Historic,
            Roller Mills, Urban Village, Mill Pond and Urban Tech Mixed Use Districts, any exception shall be limited
            to a maximum of one module of parking. In all cases where an exception is granted to allow parking
            between the building and the street, an ADA compliant pedestrian access shall be accommodated from the
            building entrance to the street sidewalk.




Texas Roadhouse Addition Site Plan with Exception
         d. Buildings located on corner lots shall only be allowed an exception to the building orientation on one
            side of the building with the other side of the building maintaining no parking between the building
            and the street within the Historic, Roller Mills, Urban Village, Mill Pond, and Urban Tech Mixed Use
            Districts.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of an exception to the glass requirement for an addition to Texas Roadhouse
located at 1402 East Main Street in the Commercial Zone. Texas Roadhouse would like to expand their building to
provide more tables for dining. Their narrative states that the addition will add 989 square feet and 48 new seats.
They can meet all of the site requirements besides the 40 percent glass requirement in the Urban Village Design
District. Their proposed building addition has 30 percent glass which matches the percentage of glass on the
existing building. They stated that providing more than 30 percent glass will negatively impact their expansion by
not allowing as many new seats.

The DRC reviewed the proposed addition and had four redline comments.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Site Plans are administrative items that must be approved if they meet the Development Code requirements. This site
plan requests exceptions. The Planning Commission should determine if the intent of the Code is met and these
exceptions should be granted. This is a public hearing item, the public can also speak to these exceptions and if they
believe the exception should be granted or not.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed site plan with an exception. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed exception still allows/ does not allow the site to meet the intent of the Urban Village Design
         District.
    2.   The applicant provided/ did not provide adequate justification for why they need the exception.
    3.   The exception will not increase the impact of their existing building which already has 30 percent glass.
    4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public meeting.




Texas Roadhouse Addition Site Plan with Exception
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          December 4, 2024

                                                   Texas Roadhouse Addition
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Bernahl Development Services- requests review of the Texas Roadhouse Building Addition located at 1402 East Main
Street.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Emily Bernahl, Whitney Chase, Veronica Nicla, Kirt Andersen
Date of Plans Reviewed: 11/25/24
Time Start: 2:52pm
Time End: 2:57pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks:
1. Please show calculations that the site is meeting the landscaped 10% minimum square footage requirement.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
2. A separate application and plans will need to be submitted for a building permit.
Shelbey – Public Works:
3. SSOMP will be required prior to precon
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
4. A minimum of 40 percent of the facade area on the first floor facing the street shall consist of glass.


THIS ITEM IS SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON DECEMBER 12, 2024

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (TAIILGATE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
November 22, 2024

Honorable DRC Members,


Enclosed please find the completed application for site plan approval with an existing building, for the
Texas Roadhouse located at 1402 E Main Street for your review and consideration.
It is Texas Roadhouse’s desire to construct a dining room addition, adding a total of 989 SF and 48 new
seats at their existing location. The screenshot below is for illustrative purposes of the location of the
area of the addition.




This application includes the civil and architectural elevations as requested which details the extent of
the design. The full architectural set will be submitted to the building department upon completion of
the DRC process.

In addition to this DRC application (Site plan with existing building), we are also requesting an exception
to Chapter 37 Design Standards, Section 3. Urban Village District Design Standards. Since the
construction of the original store in 2009, the city has amended the zoning ordinance which created the


                     Bernahl Development Services LLC 1865 Farm Rd. Lake Forest, IL 60045 312.493.8762
overlay, Urban Village Design District. The district has established design criteria, and it is anticipated
that the existing building will not need to be modified to address the adopted guidelines, however the
addition square footage would need to comply with the guidelines. We carefully reviewed and are
addressing the other design standards with exception to the window requirement. Texas Roadhouse’s
windows or glazing percentage on this elevation are 30%. Therefore, our exemption request is specific
to Paragraph 2b. Architectural design standards:
A minimum of 40 percent of the facade area on the first floor facing the street shall consist of glass.
Where a building is located on a corner lot, a minimum of 40 percent of each facade on the first floor
shall consist of glass.

The challenge with expanding the windows is that Texas Roadhouse utilizes the interior wall space to
hang interior signs, taxidermy mounted pieces which are integral to their customer experience and
brand. In reviewing their original décor plan, this wall has a ram’s head, lizard, a photo print, ram horns
and other accessory pieces which are on this existing wall. The intent when they construct these dining
additions is to keep the look of the building the same both on the interior and exterior of the building.
Widening the windows would change the interior wall space and alter the exterior look of this location.

We are respectfully requesting to maintain the existing glazing requirement which is currently at 30%,
which is a 10% exception for the design standard noted above.



Thank you for your time and consideration.


With Kind Regards


Emily Bernahl




                     Bernahl Development Services LLC 1865 Farm Rd., Lake Forest, IL 60045 312.493.8762
