                        GARRETT’S FLAG LOT CONDITIONAL USE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                 Applicant         Brian and Lisa Garrett
                              Meeting Date         May 8, 2025
                 Requested Action/Purpose          Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use flag lot
                             Decision Type         Administrative
                                  Location         450 E 200 S
                               Project Area        0.63 acres
                           Existing Zoning         R-2 (recently rezoned)
         General Plan Land Use Designation         MDR
                         Existing Land Use         Existing single family home
            Adjacent Zoning and Land Use                North PF                   Lehi Outdoor Pool
                                                        South R-1-8                Single Family Home
                                                         East R-1-8                Single Family Home
                                                         West R-1-8                Single Family Home
                         Date of DRC Review        April 23, 2025
                           Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                        Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the vicinity
of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said requirements and
conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site planning, traffic
control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads, and time limits for
the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential requirements and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers of
    all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance and
    character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and drive-
    ways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter, heat,
    glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and operated
    in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of the
    proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General Plan,
    and the intent and purpose of this Code.




Garrett’s Flag Lot Conditional Use Permit
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being, or
will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with the
land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest

Section 12.210. Flag Lot Standards.

Minimum Requirements. A flag lot shall meet the following minimum requirements:

    1. The pole portion of the lot shall have at least 20 feet of frontage on a dedicated public street, which frontage
    serves as access only to the subject lot.

    2. The flag lot shall have a hard surfaced driveway from the public street to the required parking area for the flag
    lot with a minimum 20-foot wide drivable surface from lip of gutter to lip of gutter, per the cross section in this
    subsection (See Figure 5). Adequate provisions as determined by the City Engineer shall be made for drainage of
    the driveway such as curb and gutter, berming, swales, or underground piping. Curb and gutter shall be constructed
    in conformance with the Road-5 standard drawing in the Lehi City Design Standards and Public Improvements Spec-
    ifications manual.

    3.   Not more than one flag lot shall be created from an existing lot or parcel.

    4. The remainder of the lot or parcel from which the flag lot is being divided shall maintain all of the required
    zoning standards, including frontage.

    5. A flag lot cannot be created as part of a subdivision where there are more than two lots in the subdivision or from
    an illegally divided lot.

    6.   Only one single family dwelling shall be allowed on a flag lot.

    7. The width of the pole of the flag lot shall be not less than 20 feet of drivable surface unless otherwise recom-
    mended by the City Engineer and Fire Marshal and approved by the Planning Commission.

    8. The pole portion shall maintain the required width for its entire length and a vertical clearance of thirteen and
    one half feet high.

    9. The single family dwelling unit shall be located within 250 feet of a fire hydrant measured along the curb line,
    in accordance with the City’s latest Design Standards and Public Improvement Specifications.

    10. The flag portion of the lot shall meet the minimum square footage and width requirements of the applicable zone.

    11. Front, rear, and side yard setback requirements of the flag portion of the lot shall be the same as required in the
    applicable zone.

    12. The shape of a flag lot shall be approved by the Planning Commission as part of the subdivision approval. Dog-
    legs and jagged, irregular shapes may not be acceptable.

    13. The pole portion of the lot shall be part of the lot, not an access easement, and shall be designated as a public
    utility easement.

    14. “No parking” signs may be required on the pole portion of the lot as deemed necessary by the Planning Com-
    mission.

    15. The street address for the flag lot shall be clearly identified so that it is visible from the public street with either
    an address label on the mailbox or a separate address marker.

    16. All applicable street improvements including curb, gutter, and sidewalk shall be installed along the frontage of
    both the flag lot and the lot or parcel from which it is being subdivided.




Garrett’s Flag Lot Conditional Use Permit
      17. No accessory building shall be allowed on the flagpole portion of the lot. This subsection shall not be interpreted
      to prohibit aesthetic entry features, such as archways, decorative mailboxes, raised landscape beds, or similar struc-
      tures.

      18. The Planning Commission may impose additional conditions on flag lots including:
          (a) location and height of the dwelling;
          (b) compatibility of the proposed project with existing conditions; and
          (c) screening and landscaping.

      19. When the flag lot area is less than 10,000 square feet, five feet of landscaping including evergreens or other tall
      shrubs that provide a visual barrier and a six-foot sight-obscuring fence shall be required along the perimeter of the
      flag lot to screen the flag lot from neighboring properties.

B.     Approval Process. The Planning Commission shall have authority to approve a flag lot as a conditional use in
accordance with the requirements of this Section and Chapter 9, Conditional Uses, of this Code. Requests for a flag lot
are also subject to the subdivision requirements and approval process as per Chapter 11, Development Application Re-
quirements, of this Code.


     PROPERTY HISTORY

September 8, 1992 – Annexed into Lehi City as part of the Donna L. Woffinden Annexation

May 14, 2024- The City Council approved the Garrett’s Way Zone Change to R-2 for the property.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Garrett’s Flag Lot Conditional Use located at 450 E 200 S in the R-2 zone. The
resulting lots of this flag lot subdivision will be 13,882 square feet for lot 1 with an existing home, and 12,309 square feet
for the newly created lot 2. Both lots meet the 8,000 square foot minimum for dwellings in the R-2 zone. The 75-foot
frontage requirement for the front lot and 20-foot-wide requirement for the flag stem are both met.

The DRC reviewed the proposed flag lot and had twelve comments:

1.    Include tabulation on the plat that includes the zoning, number of lots, total acreage, etc.
2.    Use standard plat template with larger space for County Recorder stamp. Also, we need a Chief Building Official
      signature line since this is a two-lot subdivision with an existing home.

Please include all DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional use applications are administrative. This means if they meet the Code they must be approved. However, the
Planning Commission can put reasonable conditions on the use that are related to potential negative impacts. These con-
ditions could include things like the orientation of the home, fencing or landscaping requirements.

The public can speak to this item. Comments focused on negative impacts and potential solutions that could mitigate these
impacts are helpful.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS




Garrett’s Flag Lot Conditional Use Permit
The Planning Commission may move to approve with conditions the proposed flag lot. Any motion should include find-
        ings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed flag lot meets/does not meet the intent of the flag lot code requirements.
    2.   The proposed lots meet the frontage and size requirements of the R-2 zone and the flag lot ordinance.
    3.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Garrett’s Flag Lot Conditional Use Permit
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 23, 2025

                        Garrett’s Way 2-lot Subdivision with an Existing Home and Flag Lot CUP
                                               DRC Redline Comments

Brian & Lisa Garrett – requests review of a 2-lot subdivision with an existing home located at 450 East 200 South.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 04/11/25
Time Start: 2:20 PM
Time End: 2:40 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Jake/Glade – Power:
1. Provide minimum 10’ PUE for power and dry utilities not under the drivable surface.
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire:
2. Specify which all surface material you will be using.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
3. Show the right location's of 4'' culinary main and 6'' PI main. Lehi City can provide you with the GIS locations.
4. Label the sizes of PI and Culinary services on plan set.
5. Water can's located in drive way will require galvanized steel can with traffic rated lid. add note to plan set.
6. No permanent structure can be built in existing 15' sewer easement. add note to plan set.
7. label what size of sewer lateral stub with 2% slope.
8. provide Lehi city detail sheets in plan set for all utilities.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
9. Lot 1 and lot 2 each will need to retain/detain their own storm water runoff.
Luke – Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
10. Add "A residential subdivision" in the title block
11. Include tabulation on the plat that includes the zoning, number of lots, total acreage, etc.
12. Use standard plat template with larger space for County Recorder stamp. Also, we need a Chief Building Official
    signature line since this is a two-lot subdivision with an existing home.


PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)

ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
   improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
   supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
   necessary supplies for the development.
5. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
6. Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 23, 2025

7.  Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
8. Address any comments or conditions from Planning Commission approval of the preliminary
9. Assign addresses.
10. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled
11. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Submit a title report to the planner over the project for review.
4. Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
   property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.
5. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
6. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.
STAFF
7. Send a digital copy of the plat to the County for review prior to accepting printed mylar.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MAY 8th.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
