                   PIONEER VILLAGE PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                Applicant     Flagship Homes
                            Meeting Date      May 8, 2025
                 Requested Action/Purpose     Public hearing, review, and recommendation for a proposed preliminary
                                              subdivision
                           Decision Type      Administrative
                                Location      Approximately 1300 West 1400 South
       Existing General Plan Designation      VLDRA
                         Existing Zoning      R-1-22
                      Existing Land Use       Undeveloped
                   Number of Lots/Units       34 lots
          Adjacent Zoning and Land Use           North TH-5                   Undeveloped
                                                 South PF                     Dry Creek Elementary School
                                                  East TH-5                   Single family residential
                                                  West PF                     Future Park
                      Date of DRC Review      April 16, 2025
                        Assigned Planner      Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission      Public hearing, review, and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code, in-
cluding review by the Reviewing Departments, and review and approval by the Planning Commission following a
public hearing.

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has
been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

December 16, 2022          The BCP annexation was recorded for this property with a zoning of TH-5.

August 8, 2023             The Dry Creek Village Zone Change to MU was denied by the City Council.

April 23, 2024             The BCP Property LDR General Plan Amendment was denied by the City Council.

September 10, 2024         The Pioneer Village (BCP) zone change was approved to R-1-22.


  REPORT ANALYSIS




Pioneer Village Preliminary Subdivision
Flagship Homes is requesting review and approval of the Pioneer Village Preliminary Subdivision. This is a 34-lot
subdivision located at approximately 1300 West 1400 South.

The base density for the R-1-22 zone is 1.75 lots per acre or 26 lots, but the overall density for the project is 2.26 lots
per acre or 34 lots. The applicant is proposing additional density in lieu of reimbursement for the construction of the
offsite road through the future park area.

The lots in the subdivision range in size from 10,424 square feet to 17,725 square feet. Additionally, there is a pe-
destrian connection from 1325 West to the front of Dry Creek Elementary School.

Parks, Planning, and Engineering met with the applicant to discuss the density and off-site road topic prior to Planning
Commission. The City Departments are comfortable with the proposed additional density being granted in lieu of
reimbursement. Further discussion will need to occur on the alignment of the road through the park, but Staff feels
the road value is a fair comparable for the additional density.

There were 13 redline comments from the DRC, including:

1.    Show a 6' precast fence on the South boundaries of both basins, and through the walkway area.
2.    Please show this proposed roadway layout as it relates to the currently planned Parks Department improvements.
      This roadway alignment may need to be adjusted to accommodate those proposed uses, the potential land swap, etc.
3.    This roadway alignment does need to be reviewed/coordinated between City Engineering, Planning, and Parks
      staff. The roadway was not shown tying straight west to 1300 South as an attempt to reduce cut-through traffic, and
      to facilitate the construction of this "ribbon road" with the 8-lots of density that were offered as part of this develop-
      ment. It is the general feeling of Engineering staff that the proper placement of this roadway as part of the Pioneer
      Village Development can enhance connectivity through this area and ultimately provide a significant cost savings
      towards the future development of this park property.
4.    Label the pedestrian walkway between lots 12 and 14.
5.    Need to provide a base layout with standard 22,000 sq ft. lots. Chapter 5 of the Development Code states the fol-
      lowing:
      In order to determine the amount of any additional density allowed, the applicant shall provide two concept plan
      designs: one based on a standard layout that meets all of the bulk and intensity requirements and the other showing
      the proposed layout with the exceptions. The standard layout shall determine the base number of lots and units. It
      appears that two lots would need to be removed from the current layout unless additional improvements are shown
      to justify them.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Subdivisions are administrative items. If they meet the Code requirements they must be approved.

The public may speak to this item but they should recognize that this item will not be denied. The public may want to
bring up concerns or items the Planning Commission may not be aware of.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed preliminary subdivision. Any motion should
include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
           gards to subdivision approvals.
      2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Pioneer Village Preliminary Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 16, 2025

                                                        Pioneer Village
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Flagship Homes- requests preliminary subdivision review of Pioneer Village, a 34-lot subdivision located at approximately
1300 West 1400 South.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Tony Trane
Date of Plans Reviewed: 04/08/25
Time Start: 2:14 pm
Time End: 2:42 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Line extension required.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
2. will there be future lots on the west side of 1400 west? if so the storm drain will have conflicts with the sewer.
3. will there be utilities in this off site road?
James – Parks:
4. Show a 6' precast fence on the South boundaries of both basins, and through the walkway area.
5. The Parks Department suggests the removal of both basins. Other options include:
     • Consider combining the basins into one basin.
     • The Parks Department recommends that the basins be maintained by the HOA or homeowners.
6. Provide landscaping plan for the walkway area.
7. The proposed road alignment has not yet been reviewed in coordination with the Parks Department and does not align
with any existing plans for the park. Further discussion and concept-level planning are required to demonstrate how the
alignment will integrate with park amenities and provide appropriate connectivity to the 1300 South / 1700 West
intersection. (Per Steve Marchbanks)
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E.– Engineering:
8. Show acre size and dimensions for each lot
9. Please show this proposed roadway layout as it relates to the currently planned Parks Department improvements. This
     roadway alignment may need to be adjusted to accommodate those proposed uses, the potential land swap, etc.
10. This roadway alignment does need to be reviewed/coordinated between City Engineering, Planning, and Parks staff.

    The roadway was not shown tying straight west to 1300 South as an attempt to reduce cut-through traffic, and to
    facilitate the construction of this "ribbon road" with the 8-lots of density that were offered as part of this development.

    It is the general feeling of Engineering staff that the proper placement of this roadway as part of the Pioneer Village
    Development can enhance connectivity through this area and ultimately provide a significant cost savings towards the
    future development of this park property.
Luke- Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
11. Provide a circulation plan showing block lengths, links (both street and trail), nodes, and a table summarizing the
    connectivity index calculation.
12. Label the pedestrian walkway between lots 12 and 14.
13. Need to provide a base layout with standard 22,000 sq ft. lots. Chapter 5 of the Development Code states the following:
    In order to determine the amount of any additional density allowed, the applicant shall provide two concept plan
    designs: one based on a standard layout that meets all of the bulk and intensity requirements and the other showing the
    proposed layout with the exceptions. The standard layout shall determine the base number of lots and units. It appears


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 16, 2025

    that two lots would need to be removed from the current layout unless additional improvements are shown to justify
    them.

General Comments
1. For Final Plat: Provide, show, and label PUE on both sides of all roads.
2. end water mains with hydrant and 4'' blowoff
3. show valves on water mains.
4. show locations of 4'' permanent blow offs in intersection with valves.
5. A soil report is needed.
6. At time of final plat provide 30' utility easement in favor of Lehi City on plat
7. At time of final site plan, provide roadway plan and profile sheets for offsite road
8. At time of final plat, include notes:
    1. Detention facilities as approved with this plat shall not be altered without the permission of the Lehi City Engineer
    and Lehi City Council
    2. Partial detention requirements have been met through "payment in lieu of detention"
9. Need to provide documentation (boundary line agreement, etc.) that the 1/2 road section for 1300 South can be built as
    shown. It looks like the boundary is unclear with some of the adjacent parcels to the north.
10. Consider doing a traffic study.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MAY 8, 2025.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
