                    SMITH’S CONDITIONAL USE AND SITE PLAN
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant       AWA Engineering
                         Meeting Date        May 22, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use and site plan
                         Decision Type       Administrative
                              Location       Approximately 2100 North 3600 West
                          Project Area       15.14 acres
                       Existing Zoning       Commercial
              General Plan Designation       Commercial
                    Existing Land Use        Vacant
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use          North Commercial                 2100 North
                                                South R-3                       The Exchange Phase 13 condos
                                                 East Commercial                Maverick, future commercial
                                                 West Heavy Commercial          Willow Point Townhomes
                    Date of DRC Review       May 7, 2025
                      Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                            REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission       Public hearing and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said
requirements and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation,
site planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and
roads, and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential
requirements and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and
    operated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.




                                                                                                                      1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest.


     PROPERTY HISTORY
October 26, 2016             Property was recorded as part of the Hardman Lehi Subdivision Plat A.

January 31, 2024             The property was reviewed by the DRC as part of the Westward Crossing concept plan.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting conditional use approval for a drive-thru for the Smith’s site plan located at approximately
2100 North 3600 West. The drive-thru will be for a pharmacy. The drive-thru will be located on the north side of the
building, fronting 2100 North. The Planning Commission is only considering conditions to be placed on the drive-
thru. The applicant will continue to work with staff to address the rest of the DRC comments.

DRC Comments
There were 13 comments from the DRC. Many of them were pertaining to the signal at 2100 North and 3600 West.
There were no comments relating to the drive-thru. Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Drive-throughs are allowed uses that may have conditions put on them. The conditions are to mitigate against the
negative impacts that the proposal may have on surrounding properties and the community. The Planning Commission
may consider conditions and if they are reasonable.

The public may speak on this item. Comments should remain focused on the drive through and its potential impact in
the area. Comments that also include potential conditions that could mitigate against the impacts are the most helpful.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed conditional use and site plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
2.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
3.    That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
      and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
      be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
4.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                        2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         May 7, 2025

                                                       Smiths Site Plan
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

AWA- requests review of the Smiths Site Plan and conditional use for a pharmacy drive-thru located at approximately 2100
North 3600 West.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Sean Young, Brian Palmer, Roger Gob
Date of Plans Reviewed: 4/24/25
Time Start: 1:00 pm
Time End: 1:24 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Brad – Fiber: No comments.
Jake/Glade – Power:
1. Provide Lehi Power details for transformer pad, metering and trenching.
2. Relocate water meters in park strip per Lehi City Details. (Hardman Way). (Pg 20)
Garion – Fire:
3. Remove Fire Riser Stub-in Detail and insert Lehi, Fire Riser Standard Detail. (Water-11)
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
4. 6'' valve flanged to the reducer.
5. remove valve on 2'' water service.
6. ductile flange loops will be required under storm drain crossings Maintain 4' cover on culinary main 5' cover on Pi
    main.
James – Parks:
7. Recommend adding at least 10 more trees to site. It looks to me that at least 5 could be added around the detention
    basin and Northern landscaping area.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Brad/Gary E. – Engineering:
8. Label on plat: Lehi City public utility easement
9. Provide inlet box information (C3.1) Show additional roof drains in profile (C3.3)
Luke – Traffic:
10. Page C1.2 has a note marker 64 but no note in the list.
11. Coordinate with Luke on the resolution of these comments regarding the traffic signal.
    C4.1
    1.Include new/reconstructed northwest corner ped ramp at HardmanWay @ 3600 W
    2.Remove northbound through arrow striping at Hardman Way @ 3600 W.

    C6.1
    4.Remove the 3rd Type-1 head shown for SB and for WB. We don’t put heads over the LT lanes unless there is left-
    turn phasing. Please restrict to just the (2) type-1 heads centered over the thru-lanes. Keep the mast arm length to the
    middle of the LT lane for future LT phasing, when/if required.
    5.General Note-6 / remove all reference to UDOT region 3. This is a city signal, UDOT has nothing to do with the
    power or inspections here. It will all be done by Lehi City.
    6.Has coordination been completed with Lehi City power regarding the source – IE, the transformer called out in
    Key#2 ? Please confirm that such has been done and provide the contact name & number for the person the designer
    has worked with to authorize this connection so that 1) we know it’s a right connection point, and 2) the contractor
    knows who to call to schedule and coordinate the work.
    7.There are a lot of key-note bubbles on the drawing – it’s needlessly messy and hard to read:
    a.Remove callouts for Key#3, #5,6,7,8,9,12,13 / this is implied by the symbology
    b.The length of the arm in the Key-note is 65’, the length in the Pole table is 70’. Which one is it?


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 4
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         May 7, 2025

    c.Key#19 isn’t shown on the plans….where is the transformer?
    d.Key#22 is pointing to the conduit between the Jbox and the cabinet – not what the note says….
    e.Key#25 is not on the plans anywhere…..fix or remove.
    f.Key#27 is totally wrong – this has to be an R10-21 Yield-on-FYA sign, NOT a LT-only.
    8.Put the CCTV at 35’ on the luminaire extension on the most open, best line-of-sight corner – NOT on the mast arm.
    9.P1, P3, and P4 are all in the park strip, within just a couple of feet of the TBC. This is a poor location for signal mast
    poles – they will (not might, but WILL) be hit, shaved, bumped, etc, by turning vehicles, trailers, and others. This
    location right at TBC is a last-resort – it’s dangerous for drivers (immovable object in their path) and expensive for the
    city to fix when they are hit. Strongly encourage the City to require these poles to be put at the top-back-center of the
    ADA ramps, NOT where they are currently shown. This is not a good layout.
    a.I get that they may be trying to meet the 10’ ADA distance, but this is not the right way to do that. If the distance is
    over 15’, we can add a ped pole in this spot, but don’t put the mast pole here unless there are no other options.

    C6.2
    10.Phasing plan is wrong – showing Ph-1, 3 for the SB and WB left turns, but those are Type-1 heads (that are being
    removed). Take out those phases.
    11.Where is the transformer being connected to - ? The 3” line just disappears onto the NW corner – is it 100’? 300’?
    This needs to be shown in its entirety, here or elsewhere…..
    12.Remove the fiber portion under the signal circuit diagram – it’s not appropriate there, and the callout for “cat6 fiber
    optic cable” is completely bogus (there is no such thing). You have shown this connection and the full fiber design on
    6.4 – it does not belong on this diagram page.

    C6.3
    13.The contractor notes on this sheet are an exact repeat of those on the main plan sheet – delete them here.
    14.What are the asterisks on the first 3 items (cabinet, controller, MMU) on this table?? No reference to what that
    means – remove it or clarify it.
    15.Sign mount quantities are not correct. The only thing that uses astro-bracs, poles and clamps are street signs – the
    other mast arm signs are banded on. Period. Reduce this quantity to (4) on bracs and poles, (16) on clamps.
    16.What is the qty of (1) under “custom” supposed to be? Clarify or remove.
    17.There is no radar interface unit called out – please add (1) ARC-6 unit in the radar area of the materials table.
    18.Fix the qty of signal heads, LEDs and mounts per the comment above regarding the un-needed Type-1 heads for
    WB and SB.
    19.Calculate and include quantities for conduit, boring/trenching, and all cable lengths – putting in a ($$) is not a
    design….this is part of the designers job.

    C6.4
    20.The UDOT fiber optic group would not sign off on this connection with this design as shown, meaning that the
    designer does not appear to have coordinated this connection with UDOT, because UDOT won’t approve connections
    without a full design.
    a.The cable size is not called out, the conduit size is not called out, the callout for connection is the SW corner, but the
    plan lines show it crossing 2100n to the NW corner - ?? Etc, etc. COORDINATE WITH UDOT to get comments and
    final approval for the comm design; finding a box and assuming you can just plug-in is not a design.
    21.No splices are called out – that’s not going to work…

    C6.6
    23.Remove the small, inset UDOT standard drawing images on the last page. In Utah, we do not include the standard
    drawings in plan sets – they are included only by reference, to ensure the most current version is used by the
    contractor. Besides, at the sizing provided here they are useless anyway – too small to read. Take them out.

Kim – Planning:
12. Continue evaluating the park strips on 2100 N with Lehi City and UDOT. After meeting with UDOT, we propose to
    do a 10' wide trail with a 2' planter along 2100 N where we are tight on property. This can help meet a minimal park
    strip but also have some buffering so people aren't walking or riding right up against the curb.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 4
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         May 7, 2025

13. The flared approach in the trail creates a sudden dip for trail users that isn't ideal for safety. Is it possible to bend the
    trail around the flared approach?


PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)


ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
    landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
    Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
    must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Reimbursement Agreement for any reimbursable improvement items must be in place.
5. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
    process.
6. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
7. Provide required licenses (railroad, UDOT, UTA, aqueduct, canal, etc).
8. UIC permit will be required for underground stormwater chamber prior to precon
9. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
    Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com). More information available at https://www.lehi-
    ut.gov/departments/water/storm-water/
10. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
11. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
    Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
    agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
12. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
13. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
14. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
15. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                3 of 4
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         May 7, 2025

7.   All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
     being granted.
8.   The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
     by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9.   Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
     be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
     provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
     loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
     construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.


THIS ITEM IS SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MAY 22, 2025 TO APPROVE THE
CONDITIONAL USE FOR THE DRIVE THRU.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                4 of 4
February 3, 2025

Lehi City
Planning Division
153 North 100 East
Lehi, UT 84043

RE: Site Plan Approval Application for a Smith’s Food & Drug Center.

AWA Development Consultants is requesting consideration for a proposed Smith’s Food & Drug Center located at the
SW corner of 2100 North & 3600 West, Lehi, Utah.

Background
The current site is undeveloped
Utah County Assessor Parcel Numbers: 41:840:0008 & 41:840:0014
Overall Site Area: + 15.17 acres
Perimeter Rights-of-Way: 2100 North / 3600 West / Hardman Way
Current Zoning: C (Commercial)
General Plan Designation: Commercial

Site Plan
The proposed Smith’s Food & Drug Center will be located in the western portion of the site.
An anchor store will be located to the south of the building, sharing a wall with the Smith’s store.
Smith’s Fuel Center and additional store pads will be in the eastern portion of the site, separated by the parking area.

Building / Elevations
The Smith’s Marketplace Store and Fuel Center building will be consistent with the Lehi City Development Code
Chapter 37 Design Standards while maintaining the Smith’s Food & Drug Center brand. The building height and
elevations will not be detrimental to adjoining properties in the area.
Building elevations for pads B, C, D and the Anchor store will be reviewed at a later date by the City.

Transportation / Access
There will be four accesses to the site. One right-in right-out access is located at 2100 North and one right-in right-out
is located at 3600 West. Hardman Way has two accesses, one full access, and one right-in right-out access.
Additionally, a traffic signal will be constructed on Hardman Way and 3600 West.

Landscaping
The site will contain at least 10% landscaping, which complies with the Lehi City Development Code

Signage
Signage will comply with Chapter 23 (Signs) of the Lehi City Development Code



  P
                   •                 •                         •                             •
Lighting
Lighting will provide sufficient night vision and security lighting without excessive lighting cast beyond the project
boundary. A Photometric Plan is included in this application.

Parking
The site will comply with Chapter 37 Table 37.080 in the Lehi City Development Code requirement of 1 parking stall
per 300 square feet.

Hours of Operation
The Smith’s Food and Drug Center will be open 24 hours; the pharmacy hours will be 9:00AM to 8:00PM. The
Smith’s Fuel Center kiosk will have an attendant from 7:00AM to 10:00PM with fuel available 24 hours.

Thank you for your review and approval.

Regards,
Rick Magness
Rick Magness, AICP
Entitlement Manager / Land Planner
rickm@awaeng.com
(702) 370-6969




 P
                   •                 •                         •                            •
