                               BEACHES RETAIL CENTER CONCEPT
                                    PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant         Corey Middleton
                           Meeting Date          May 22, 2025
               Requested Action/Purpose          Approval of exceptions on a concept plan
                          Decision Type          Administrative
                                Location         1742 East Center Pointe Drive
                            Project Area         0.48 acres
                         Existing Zoning         Commercial
       General Plan Land Use Designation         Commercial
          Adjacent Zoning and Land Use              North Commercial          O’Reilly Auto Parts
                                                    South Commercial          Undeveloped Commercial
                                                     East Public Facility     Reservoir
                                                     West Commercial          Commercial Parking Lot
                         Date of DRC Review      March 26, 2025
                           Assigned Planner      Brittney Harris

                                                REQUIRED ACTION
                      Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and final approval


     APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.

Section 37.010. General Nonresidential Design District
Building entrances:
    1. Public entrances shall be developed on all new buildings to face the adjacent street (see Figure 123). Building
        entrances may be allowed on a side of the building closest to the street if an unobstructed sidewalk connection
        is provided from the building entrance to the street sidewalk.

a.    Site design standards:

           i. Building orientation:

                    1.    Buildings shall be oriented toward the adjacent public or private street with no off-street parking
                          or drive aisles located between the building and street sidewalk (see Figure 131).
2.    Exceptions:

Exceptions to Section 37.010 may be approved by the Planning Commission provided the following:

                           a. The applicant shall provide evidence that the exception to the design standards improves the
                              design quality, walkability/bike-ability, or ability conduct the proposed use on the subject
                              property, as determined by the Planning Commission.

                           b. The applicant shall provide justification on how the proposed project fits in with the purpose
                              and vision of the design standards district in which it is located.




Beaches Retail Center Concept Plan
                        c. Exceptions may be granted to allow parking between the building and street, however in the
                           Historic, Roller Mills, Urban Village, Mill Pond and Urban Tech Mixed Use Districts, any
                           exception shall be limited to a maximum of one module of parking. In all cases where an
                           exception is granted to allow parking between the building and the street, an ADA compliant
                           pedestrian access shall be accommodated from the building entrance to the street sidewalk



  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of an exception to the location of the building entrance, and for the drive aisle
between the building and Center Pointe Drive.

The General Nonresidential Design District requires buildings to be oriented towards the street with the front door
facing the street. The applicant requests an exception to line their proposed building up with the existing O’Reilly
Auto Parts. Existing Power lines also would make it expensive and challenging to locate the building closer to the
street.

The applicant also requests that the entrance face towards the south, instead of Center Pointe Drive. They expressed
that they anticipate most of their clientele coming from the VASA gym across the street. Orienting this building to
the south makes it more pedestrian friendly for those coming from the gym.

The DRC reviewed the concept plan and had 16 comments, most of them informational for the applicant on their
future site plan submittal.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a concept plan this is an administrative item. If it meets the Code it must be approved. The applicant wants an
exception to the building orientation with gives the Planning Commission a level of discretion.

This is a public hearing item. Comments focused on specific concerns with the proposed building orientation and
ways to mitigate them are the most beneficial. The public should also be aware that the Planning Commission can
only require those items listed in the Development Code.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve, approve with modifications, or deny the proposed concept plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1. The proposed exception meets the requirements for an exception in the Development Code.
    2. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
    3. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    4. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Beaches Retail Center Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 26, 2025

                                                      Lehi Beaches Retail
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Corey Middleton- requests review of the Beaches Retail Center Concept Plan located at 1742 East Center Pointe Drive in
the Commercial zone.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Corey Middleton, Stevie Sharp
Date of Plans Reviewed: 03/13/25
Time Start: 1:05pm
Time End: 1:27pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Will need to submit a power load worksheet for the site plan
Brad – Fiber:
2. Active Live Lehi Fiber on east side of Development.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
3. Will need a sewer lateral installed into the lot from Center Point Drive sewer main is a 8''. There is a existing 1.5''
    water service stubbed into lot. there is no PI service stubbed into lot. there is a 20'' pi main in Center Point DR.
4. 18'' storm drain in Center Point DR.
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
5. A soil report will be required if this moves past concept.
Shelbey – Public Works:
6. Site area is less than an acre, so no SWPPP will be required
7. SSOMP (formerly LTSWMP) will be required prior to precon
8. 80th percentile stormwater retention will be required at site plan
Gary E. – Engineering:
9. Verify there is enough room to bring sidewalk from Center Pointe Boulevard down along south side of building
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
10. The code requires that buildings should be oriented towards adjacent public or private streets with no off-street parking
    or drive aisles between the building and street sidewalk. On a corner it should be placed on the corner so there is no
    parking between either street. The proposed placement will require an exception from the Planning Commission. The
    current orientation towards the private street for the shopping center probably is the one most likely to be used by
    pedestrians.
11. Need building entrances towards the street. Either the shopping drive aisle or Center Pointe Drive
12. An unobstructed sidewalk connection will be required from the street sidewalk to the building entrance.
13. Sidewalks need to connect all parking areas, streets, buildings, and neighboring sites.
14. The building will need to meet the architectural requirements found in Chapter 37 of the Development Code.
15. The parking required for this building would be 9 stalls. You could reduced the amount of parking and increase the
    landscaping.
16. Bicycle parking will be required per Chapter 37 of the Development Code.




DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           March 26, 2025

THIS ITEM IS REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.
(An exception requires stamped addressed envelopes for public noticing if the project proceeds to Planning Commission)

THIS ITEM CAN SUBMIT A SITE PLAN OR GO TO PLANNING COMMISSION FOR APPROVAL OF THE
EXCEPTION ON APRIL 10th




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
