               CHAPTER 11 DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                                          CITY COUNCIL REPORT
                            Applicant         Lehi City
                         Meeting Date         June 10, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Approval of a proposed amendment to the Lehi City Development Code
                  Date of DRC Review          April 9, 2025
  Date of Planning Commission Review          May 8, 2025

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                           City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General
Plan. In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and
the City Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoin-
         ing properties.
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval of an amendment to Chapter 11 of the Development Code. The update is primarily
to clarify the purpose of concept plans and when public hearings are required for concept plans.

The Code amendment proposes to make it so public hearings are only required for concept PRDs, PUDs, Planned Com-
munities, TODs, and concepts that include any exceptions, or when a public hearing is part of the process for subsequent
project approvals.

The DRC had no comments on the proposed Development Code amendment.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The City Council may approve or deny the proposed development code amendment. Any motion should in-
clude findings. Possible findings include:
    1.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and pro-
         visions of the General Plan and its various elements.
    2.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.


  PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION

The Planning Commission reviewed the proposed amendment on May 8, 2025. The minutes and motion from this
meeting are as follows:

2.6) Public hearing and recommendation of Lehi City’s request for a review of a Development Code amend-
ment to Chapter 11, Concept Plans, clarifying the purpose of concept plans and when a public hearing is re-
quired.

Brittney Harris presented the item. This is a part of the code that the Planning Division would like to clean up and
make more consistent across concept plans and site plans that need exceptions. Previously, site plans with excep-
tions didn’t require a public hearing.

Commissioner Everett suggested replacing the word ‘forum’ with different wording to clarify that it is a process and
not a single meeting.

Commissioner Eyre asked if concept plans were there to help the city comply with State code. Harris clarified that
the state does not require concept plans, and that the city holds more public hearings than are required by State code.

Commissioner Everett asked if it would be beneficial to replace “exception” with the phrase “code exception.” Har-
ris said that she thinks it’s implied, but that the planners will discuss it.

                  Motion: Commissioner Everett moved to give a positive recommendation to the Lehi City Coun-
                  cil, and encouraged them to include proposed changes to the verbiage that the Commission mem-
                  bers made, with the findings that the proposed changes will hopefully bring clarity to the code.
                  Commissioner Eyre seconded.

                  Vote: Commissioner Everett, yes. Commissioner Lockhart, yes. Commissioner Eyre, yes. Com-
                  missioner Jackson, yes. Commissioner Kunze, yes.

                  Motion passed unanimously.
