                  CHAPTER 5 DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                                            CITY COUNCIL REPORT
                               Applicant        Lehi City
                            Meeting Date        June 10, 2025
                Requested Action/Purpose        Approval of a proposed amendment to the Lehi City Development Code
                     Date of DRC Review         April 23, 2025
     Date of Planning Commission Review         May 8, 2025

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                             City Council       Final approval


     APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General
Plan. In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and
the City Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

      1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
      2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
      3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoin-
           ing properties.
      4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
           by the General Plan;
      5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
           uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
      6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
           ment; and
      7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval of an amendment to Chapter 5 of the Development code in conjunction with updates
to Table 05.040-A Residential Zones Bulk and Intensity. The update is a comprehensive update to Chapter 5.

The primary changes made with the comprehensive update are as follows:
    • Cleaning up and simplifying the text.
    • Creating a more specific purpose for each of the zones.
    • Removing outdated and no longer applicable information about the R- 2.5 zone.
    • Removing exceptions to bulk and intensity requirements for curvilinear street layouts or coving.
    • Removing stricter public notice procedures for permitted uses in the Public Facility zone.

The DRC had six comments for this development code amendment that were primarily grammatical. Notable comments
include:

1.    Consider changing the allowed hours of operation to instead to refer to the noise ordinance in the Municipal
      Code
2.    Why is this still a regulation? People just zone to R-1-Flex. I really think we should eliminate this.
3.    Remove the pioneer village units from the Density Map.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The City Council may approve or deny the proposed development code amendment. Any motion should in-
clude findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and pro-
           visions of the General Plan and its various elements.
      2.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.


     PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION

The Planning Commission reviewed the proposed amendment on May 8, 2025. The minutes and motion from this
meeting are as follows:

2.7) Public hearing and recommendation of Lehi City’s request for review of a comprehensive amendment to
Chapter 5, Zone Districts and Table 05-404-A Bulk and Intensity Agricultural and Residential Districts.

Brittney Harris presented the item. The language has been changed to make it simpler and more direct. No changes
to the intent were made.

Commissioner Everett asked for clarification on business uses vs. commercial uses.

                   Motion: Commissioner Kunze moved to give a positive recommendation to Lehi City Council
                   with an encouragement to change the phrase “business uses” to “commercial uses”, with the find-
                   ings that the proposed code amendment is in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provi-
                   sions of the General Plan and its various element. She included all DRC comments. Commissioner
                   Eyre seconded.

                   Vote: Commissioner Everett, yes. Commissioner Lockhart, yes. Commissioner Eyre, yes. Com-
                   missioner Jackson, yes. Commissioner Kunze, yes.

                   Motion passed unanimously.
