    CHAPTER 39 DEFINITONS DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                                           CITY COUNCIL REPORT
                              Applicant         Lehi City
                           Meeting Date         June 10, 2025
               Requested Action/Purpose         Approval of proposed amendments to the Lehi City Development Code
                          Decision Type         Legislative
                    Date of DRC Review          April 9, 2025
    Date of Planning Commission Review          May 8, 2025

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                              City Council      Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General Plan.
In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and the City
Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties.
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of proposed amendments to Chapter 39 of the Development Code Definitions. These
include a few changes to provide added clarity.

This amendment started when a resident called about wanting to add an Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) at their
house, and staff recognized that the definition for Dwelling, Two Family (Duplex) could include ADUs. Language
was added to clarify that Duplexes do not include home’s with ADUs.

Other changes include removing examples of equipment sales and rentals because they were limiting compared to
the definition. It also includes removing a definition of Public/ Civic Use that was a duplicate and in the wrong
location alphabetically. The other definition of Public/ Civic Use was changed to Public Building with some other
minor changes to the definition.

The proposal includes adding a line that helipads are allowed for healthcare facilities.




Chapter 39 Definitions Development Code Amendment
General retail sales was updated to include copy centers and mail services because these uses were not included
anywhere else and seemed to fit most closely with general retail.

The DRC reviewed the proposed changes and had no redline comments.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The City Council may approve or deny the proposed amendments to the Lehi City Development Code. Any
motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed Development Code amendment adds clarity to the existing definitions.
    2.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provi-
         sions of the General Plan and its various elements.
    3.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.


  PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION

The Planning Commission reviewed the proposed Development Code Amendment on May 8, 2025. The minutes and
motion from that meeting follow.

2.8) Public hearing and recommendation of Lehi City’s request for review of a Development Code Amendment
to Chapter 39, Definitions, clarifying a few definitions.

Brittney Harris presented the item. Very few changes were made. The definition of duplex was changed to exclude
homes with ADUs. Duplicate definitions have been deleted. The code also now clarifies that hospitals may have
heliports as they are being removed from the conditional use tables.

Commissioner Everett asked if typical uses were being deleted from public building definitions, as they were removed
from other categories. Harris explained that the code likely used to have a lot more typical uses that were deleted over
time. Commissioner Everett said that he would like to see more conformity from the code.

Commissioner Jackson opened and closed public comment for items 2.6, 2.7, and 2.8.

         Motion: Commissioner Everett moved to give a positive recommendation to the Lehi City Council with the
         findings that clarification to code for everyone’s benefit is always a positive thing that makes it more user
         friendly. Commissioner Eyre seconded.

         Vote: Commissioner Everett, yes. Commissioner Lockhart, yes. Commissioner Eyre, yes. Commissioner
         Jackson, yes. Commissioner Kunze, yes.

Motion passed unanimously.




Chapter 39 Definitions Development Code Amendment
