                                                                              Agreement No. 2025-

                      INTER-LOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                                    between
                                UTAH COUNTY and
                                   LEHI CITY

                                     For A Project Known As

                         Pony Express Parkway Extension, Lehi to AF




        THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this (chose day) day of June 2025, by and
between UTAH COUNTY (Program Manager), a political subdivisionof the State of Utah, with
principle offices located at 100 East Center ST, Suite 2300, Provo, Utah 84606 and LEHI CITY
(Project Sponsor), a political subdivision of the State of Utah, with principle offices located at
153 North 100 East, Lehi, UT 84043.

                                           RECITALS:

        WHEREAS, the Utah Interlocal Co-operation Act, Title 11, Chapter 13, Utah Code
Annotated (1953), as amended, permits local governmental units including cities, counties, inter-
local agencies and political subdivisions of the State of Utah to make the most efficient use of their
powers by enabling them to cooperate with other public entities on the basis of mutual advantage
and to exercise joint cooperative action for the benefit of their respective citizens; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 59-12-1903 (2008) (now Utah Code Ann. §
59-12-2218), the County adopted Ordinance No. 2008-26 to enact a sales and use tax (“3rd Quarter
Tax”) of 0.25% upon certain transactions described therein; and

       WHEREAS, the Program Manager and the Project Sponsor desire to facilitate the
construction of a roadway project known as Pony Express Parkway Extension, Lehi to
AF(Approved Project) which consists of the roadway extension of Pony Express Parkway (Lehi
1900 South) from Center Street in Lehi to approximately 700 West in American Fork; and

       WHEREAS, the Mountainland Metropolitan Planning Organization (“MPO”) Regional
Planning Committee determined that the Approved Project should receive a portion of the revenues

                                            Page 1 of 11
of the 3rd Quarter Tax not to exceed $1,000,000 in 2025 and $11,683,700 in 2027; and

       WHEREAS, the Program Manager and the Project Sponsor held duly noticed public
meetings wherein this Agreement was considered and an Authorizing Resolution was presented
for approval by the respective legislative bodies.

       NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants and agreements contained herein
and other valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Program
Manager and the Project Sponsor hereby agree as follows:

Section 1.    PURPOSES.

       This Agreement has been established and entered into between the Program Manager and
the Project Sponsor for the purpose of outlining the respective rights and responsibilities of the
Program Manager and the Project Sponsor in the construction of the Approved Project.


Section 2.     ADMINISTRATION OF AGREEMENT.
        The parties hereto agree that, pursuant to Section 11-13-207, Utah Code Annotated, 1953
as amended, the Utah County Public Works Director shall act as the administrator responsible for
the administration of this Agreement. The parties further agree that this Agreement does not
anticipate nor provide for any organizational changes in the parties. The administrator agrees to
keep all books and records in such form and manner as the Utah County Clerk/Auditor shall specify
and further agrees that said books shall be open for examination by the parties hereto at all
reasonable times.

Section 3.     MULTIPLE JURISDICTIONS.

        If a project is within multiple jurisdictions and/or agencies, one jurisdiction or agency will
enter in to this interlocal agreement and interface with the Program Manager as the Project
Sponsor. Multiple jurisdictions and/or agencies interactions will be outlined within a separate
interlocal agreement between said jurisdictions and/or agencies. This agreement shall be
referenced in this agreement as an Exhibit.

Section 4.     EFFECTIVE DATE; DURATION.

        This Agreement shall become effective and shall enter into force within the meaning of the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, upon the submission of this Agreement to, and the approval and

                                            Page 2 of 11
execution hereof by the governing bodies of the Program Manager and the Project Sponsor. The
term of this Agreement shall be from the date of execution hereof until the terms and obligations
identified herein are completed, but in no event, longer than 3 years from the execution date.


Section 5.     NO SEPARATE LEGAL ENTITY.

       The Program Manager and the Project Sponsor do not contemplate nor intend to establish
a separate legal or administrative entity under the terms of this Agreement.

Section 6.     TERMS.

1) Project Scope – Roadway extension of Pony Express Parkway (Lehi 1900 South) from
   Center Street Lehi to approximately 700 West in American Fork. This roadway extension is
   expected to include one vehicular travel lane in each direction with some widening at each
   major intersection to accommodate turning movements.

2) Project Initiation - The Project Sponsor will designate a qualified project engineer from its
   staff or hire a project engineer from the Project Sponsors consultant pool or the prequalified
   UDOT pool, who will be responsible for project delivery. The designated project engineer
   will be responsible for the completion of the project.

3) Project Development - The Project Sponsor and the designated project engineer, will
   design, acquire the necessary Right of Way (“ROW”), bid out and manage the construction
   of the Approved Project.

   a) Design Standard - The design and construction of the Approved Project will meet or
      exceed Lehi City standards when within the boundaries of Lehi City or will meet or
      exceed American Fork City standards when within the boundaries of American Fork
      City.

   b) Environmental Work - The Project Sponsor will acquire the appropriate clearances and
      permits through the design process. The Project Sponsor can follow its own adopted
      environmental process or follow the Recommended Environmental Guidance /
      Mountainland & Utah County Programmed Projects document (including designating
      with the Program Manager the type of environmental work to be completed). The Project
      Sponser must also follow any National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requirements
      required (Endangered Species Act, Clean Water Act, etc.).

                                          Page 3 of 11
   c) Design Work - The Project Sponsor will involve the Program Manager at the following
      design milestones:

           (1) Kickoff Meeting,

           (2) 30% Scope and Schedule Review,

           (3) 60% On Site Plan Review, and

           (4) 90% Plans, Specifications and Estimate.

   d) Final Design Approval - Once project design is complete the Project Sponsor will
      review the final design with the Program Manager. Both parties shall agree that the
      project is ready for the construction phase.

   e) ROW Acquisition - The Project Sponsor will be responsible to acquire all necessary
      ROW adhering to state and local laws. The Project Sponsor can follow their own adopted
      ROW acquisition process or follow the Recommended Right of Way Acquisition
      Guidance / Mountainland & Utah County Programmed Projects guidance document.

   f) Procurement - Advertising of the Approved Project will follow the Project Sponsors
      established procurement policies. All construction bids will include a 10% construction
      contingency. The Project Sponsor will provide a copy of the notice of award to the
      Program Manager.

4) Project Signage/Contact Info - It is recommended that the Project Sponsor install signage
   informing the public of the following:
   a) Project name.
   b) Project description.
   c) Start and completion dates (general).
   d) Contact name, phone number, website address, email.
   e) Use the sentence “This project funded with Mountainland Transportation Funding”.
   f) List project sponsors and their logos (Project Sponsor, Mountainland, Utah County).
   g) Generally, one sign at each access point to the project shall be installed.
   h) Signs should be at least 4’ x 6’, or large enough for passing motorists to read.
   i) Signs should be installed prior to construction and stay in place through construction.


                                         Page 4 of 11
5) Construction Process - The Project Sponsor will manage the construction process.
   a) The Program Manager will be notified of any changes that affect the scope of the project
      or costs that exceed the construction contingency.

6) Project Completion - Program Manager staff will be notified and allowed to attend the final
   inspection of the completed project.

7) Project Hold - The Program Manager has the authority to place a project on hold during the
   Project Development process or withhold reimbursement of invoices during the Construction
   Process if the Program Manager deems that the project is not within the Approved Project
   scope or budget. The Program Manager shall notify the Project Sponsor of the hold in writing
   and will work with the Project Sponsor to rectify the issues promptly. If the Project Sponsor
   and Program Manager cannot bring the Approved Project back into scope or if additional
   funding is needed above what the Program Manager or the Project Sponsor can provide, the
   issues will be brought to the Mountainland MPO committees for their review,
   recommendations, and approvals.

8) Total Project Cost - Both the Program Manager and Project Sponsor acknowledge that the
   Approved Project has been authorized by the Mountainland MPO Regional Planning
   Committee (Utah County Commission must also approve if county funds are used) to be
   funded at an amount not to exceed $12,683,700.00 (Total Project Cost) for the direct costs of
   the Approved Project.

   a) Matching Funds - The Project Sponsor is required to pay a match or portion of the Total
      Project Cost. This amount is 6.77% of the Total Project Cost. The use of Project Sponsor
      equipment and/or Project Sponsor employee time for the project shall not be
      reimbursable, but can be claimed by the Project Sponsor as a soft match toward the
      required 6.77% matching funds required from the Project Sponsor. The Project Sponsor
      is required to pay the difference between the required match and the value of the soft
      match, if any. Soft match being used as the required match for this project will be
      submitted to Program Manager as it comes available, and may include the following
      items:
      i) Property or Public Utility Easements (PUE’s) dedicated to Lehi City or American
           Fork Cities within the project corridor after September 01, 2022
      ii) Pavement improvements constructed within the project corridor after September 01,
           2022.
      iii) Preliminary Engineering, environmental, property acquisition or survey design costs
           related to the Approved Project that are expended after September 01, 2022.

                                         Page 5 of 11
b) Multi-Year Funding - Some projects require funding across multiple fiscal years.
   Reimbursement for Approved Project activities can only be made up to the available
   amount identified in a single fiscal year. Any balance from a prior year where available
   funds have not been expended for the Approved Project are then advanced to the next fiscal
   year and are added to the funds available that fiscal year. Fiscal years for County
   Transportation Sales Tax Funds begin on January 1st. The Approved Project has been
   approved for $932,300.00 in 2025 and $10,892713.51 in 2027.

c) Reimbursement - The Project Sponsor, if desiring reimbursement for the direct costs of
   the Approved Project, will provide the Program Manager with quarterly or bi-annual
   itemized invoices detailing actual costs for the ROW acquisition, design, utility
   relocation, construction, or other approved elements of the project. Appropriate backup
   materials shall also be supplied. The Program Manager agrees to reimburse the Project
   Sponsor within 30 days of receiving acceptable itemized invoices establishing the
   validity of the direct costs of the Approved Project. The maximum amount of
   reimbursement from the Program Manager to the Project Sponsor shall not exceed
   $11,825,013.51 (Total Project Cost less Matching Funds). Any costs which exceed
   $11,825,013.51 shall be the sole responsibility of the Project Sponsor. The Program
   Manager will review and approve monthly each itemized invoice and will reimburse the
   total invoice amount less the required matching funds.

d) Cost Overruns - The Program Manager maintains an account for cost overruns. The
   Project Sponsor may request additional funds above the approved Total Project Cost with
   supporting documentation demonstrating the need for additional funds. The Program
   Manager may approve up to 10% of the Total Project Cost up to a maximum of
   $500,000. The MPO Regional Planning Committee can approve higher amounts (Utah
   County Commission must also approve if county funds are used). The addition of these
   contingency funds would require a modification to this agreement. If no additional funds
   are awarded or the project still requires additional funds, the Project Sponsor will be
   responsible to fund the overrun.

e) Surplus Funds - Any surplus funds remaining after the completion of the Approved
   Project will be returned to the Mountainland or Utah County fund balance to be reallocated
   to other projects selected through the MPO project selection process. Note that
   Mountainland and Utah County selects and funds projects, not sponsors. Surplus funds
   cannot be moved to a new project not already approved though the MPO project selection



                                      Page 6 of 11
       process. Any surplus funds paid by the Project Sponsor shall be returned to the Project
       Sponsor.

9) Ownership and Maintenance of Approved Project - The Project Sponsor shall own and be
   responsible for maintenance, repair and replacement of the completed project.


10) Inspection of Approved Project - The Program Manager and its designees, upon reasonable
    notice, reserve the right to enter upon the Approved Project to inspect the same to verify
    compliance with this Agreement.

11) Other Expenses - Except as otherwise expressly stated herein, all expenses not identified as a
    part of the Approved Project or executed prior to the Agreement shall be the sole responsibility
    of the Project Sponsor.

12) No Third-Party Rights - The obligations of the parties set forth in this Agreement shall not
    create any rights in or obligations to any persons or parties other than to the Project Sponsor
    and Program Manager. This Agreement is not intended to nor shall it be construed to benefit
    any third party.

13) Recitals - The Recitals portion of this Agreement constitutes a part of this Agreement.


Section 7.     FILING OF INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT.

        Executed copies of this Agreement shall be placed on file with the official keeper of records
of the Program Manager and the Project Sponsor, and shall remain on file for public inspection
during the term of this Agreement.


Section 8.     AMENDMENTS.

1) Amending this Agreement - This Agreement may not be amended, changed, modified or
   altered except by an instrument in writing which shall be: (a) approved by Resolution of the
   governing body of each of the parties, (b) executed by a duly authorized official of each of the
   parties, and (c) filed in the official records of each party.

2) Change Orders - Changes can occur throughout a project. Changes that are outside the scope


                                           Page 7 of 11
   outlined in this contract must be amended as stated above. Minor changes and adjustments that
   fall within the original project scope can be addressed with a change order. A change order
   does not require amending this agreement. A change order is defined as that additional effort
   necessary by reason of changed conditions which are radical, unforeseen, and completely
   beyond the control of the Project Sponsor. The Project Sponsor shall create the change order
   and keep records of them. Any additional costs incurred can be covered by the construction
   contingency or by added local funding and should be addressed in the change order. If
   additional costs are more than the construction contingency and available local funds, the
   Project Sponsor shall contact the Program Manager to review funding options.

Section 9.     EXTRA WORK

         Extra work shall be undertaken only when previously authorized in writing by the Program
Manager, and is defined as additional work which is neither shown nor defined in this Agreement.
Extra work includes additional improvements adjacent to the Approved Project or in other
locations that the Project Sponsor desires to complete as a package of projects. Extra work can be
for utility projects, facilities that tie into the Approved Project, project betterments, or other work
desired by the Project Sponsor. No costs incurred by extra work can be billed to the Approved
Project. Any invoices submitted by the Project Sponsor shall clearly detail costs incurred by the
Approved Project and list separately costs incurred by the extra work. This agreement shall be
referenced in this agreement as an Exhibit.


Section 10.    SEVERABILITY.

        If any term or provision of this Agreement or the application thereof shall to any extent be
invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement, or the application of such term or
provision to circumstances other than those with respect to which it is invalid or unenforceable,
shall not be affected thereby, and shall be enforced to the extent permitted by law. To the extent
permitted by applicable law, the parties hereby waive any provision of law, which would render
any of the terms of this Agreement unenforceable.


Section 11.    GOVERNING LAW.

        All questions with respect to the construction of this Agreement, and the rights and liability
of the parties hereto, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Utah.



                                            Page 8 of 11
Section 12.    INDEMNIFICATION.

        The Project Sponsor shall indemnify and hold the Program Manager harmless from any
and all claims of liability for any injury or damage to any person or property whatsoever occurring
in, on or about the Approved Project or any part thereof. The Project Sponsor shall further
indemnify and hold the Program Manager harmless from and against any and all claims arising
from any breach or default in the performance of any obligation on the Project Sponsor’s part to
be performed under the terms of this Agreement, or arising from any act or negligence of the
Project Sponsor, or any of the Project Sponsor’s agents, employees, contractors, subcontractors,
or invitees and from and against all costs, reasonable attorney’s fees, expenses and liabilities
incurred in the defense of any such claim or any action or proceeding brought thereon. Both the
Project Sponsor and Program Manager agree that the terms of this Agreement are subject to, and
not a waiver of, the protections, immunities and liability limits of the Governmental Immunity
Act, U.C.A. 63G-1-101, et. seq. The Project Sponsor’s obligations under this provision shall
survive the expiration or other termination of this Agreement.


Section 13.    ENTIRE AGREEMENT

       This Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties and any prior
understanding or representation of any kind preceding the date of this Agreement shall not be
binding upon either party except to the extent incorporated in this Agreement.




                                          Page 9 of 11
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have signed and executed this Agreement, after
resolutions duly and lawfully passed, on the dates listed below:




                                        UTAH COUNTY

                    Authorized and passed on this (chose day) day of June 2025,




                                          Board of Commissioners
                                          UTAH COUNTY, UTAH




                                          Brandon B. Gordon, Commission Chair


ATTEST:
Aaron Davidson
Utah County Clerk


________________________________
Deputy Clerk/ Auditor


REVIEWED AS TO FORM AND
COMPATIBILITY WITH APPLICABLE LAW:
Jeff Gray
Utah County Attorney


By:
      Deputy Utah County Attorney



                                      Page 10 of 11
                                   LEHI CITY

                           Authorized by Resolution No.       ,
                         this (chose day) day of June 2025,

                                      LEHI CITY
                                      UTAH COUNTY, UTAH




                                      Mark Johnson, Mayor


ATTEST:

________________________________
City Recorder


REVIEWED AS TO FORM AND
COMPATIBILITY WITH APPLICABLE
LAW:

By:
      City Attorney




                                   Page 11 of 11
