                  HARDING 10-FOOT FENCE CONDITIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Roger Harding
                         Meeting Date         June 12, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        2693 North 1200 East
                       Existing Zoning        RA-1
              General Plan Designation        Environmentally Sensitive Area (ESA)
                    Existing Land Use         Single Family Home
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North RA-1                      Single Family Homes
                                                 South RA-1                      Single Family Homes
                                                  East Highland                  Single Family Homes
                                                  West RA-1                      Single Family Homes
                     Date of DRC Review       June 4, 2025
                       Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.

The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest

                                                                                                                       1
Section 12.070. Compatibility Assessment.
A.     Fences, Walls and Hedges.

    1. Fences, walls, and hedges shall not exceed six feet in height, unless otherwise required by Code, approval by
    the Land Use Authority, or an exception is granted according to the following:
         (a) An exception will be granted if a fence higher than six feet and no more than eight feet in height is needed
         to enjoy a similar level of privacy a six-foot fence would normally provide but does not suffice due to differ-
         ences in grade or if safety conditions require a taller fence. The exception will be reviewed by the reviewing
         departments and approved by the Zoning Administrator.
         (b) An exception can also be granted for other reasons, but the applicant bears the burden of proof that extra
         height is justified and shall be reviewed by the reviewing departments and may be approved by the Planning
         Commission following a public hearing.

    2 Any fence, wall, hedge, or other material serving as a fence shall not create a sight distance hazard to vehic-
    ular or pedestrian traffic as determined by the Zoning Administrator or City Engineer, regardless of whether the
    fence, wall, or hedge meets the requirements of this section.



  PROPERTY HISTORY
June 25, 1979               Property came into the City as part of the Jones Annexation

  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of a 10-foot fence on the east side of their property at 2693 North 1200 East. With
their property next to 1200 East, they experience a lot of noise. They want to put up a 10-foot sound wall to reduce
the noise and also to prevent people from trespassing on their property.

There is a lot of grade difference in this area. The applicant expressed their intent to put in a retaining wall with the
fence on top where there is significant grade, so the bottom of the fence will be roughly at the same grade as the
roadway.

The Reviewing Departments main concern with the sound wall would be too close of a proximity to the roadway or
future sidewalk. The applicant did express their intent to set it back from both, and their property line is approximately
12 to 21 feet away from the edge of asphalt. As long as they keep it on their property, it should not cause any problems.

The engineering department recommended a sound study to ensure that the wall would provide the sound reduction
that the applicant desires.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional uses are administrative items which allow the Planning Commission to make the final decision. This
means there is a little bit of discretion but still the use must be approved unless there are reasonable health, safety, and
welfare concerns that cannot be mitigated against with reasonable conditions.

The public can also speak to concerns about health, safety, welfare and the impact on the aesthetics of the area. Com-
ments with specific concerns and ways that the concerns could be addressed are the most helpful.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or approve with conditions the proposed 10-foot fence. Any
motion should include findings. Possible findings include:


                                                                                                                          2
1.   The proposed fence may/may not help mitigate noise for the property owner and will/will not have a negative
     impact on surrounding properties.
2.   The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
     in the vicinity.
3.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
     of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
4.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
     and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
     be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
5.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                       3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           June 4, 2025

                                                        Harding Fence
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Roger Harding- requests review of a conditional use for the Harding 10-foot fence/sound wall at 2693 North 1200 East.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: none
Date of Plans Reviewed: 05/28/25
Time Start: 2:53pm
Time End: 2:56pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks:
1. Staff recommends allowing an 8-foot fence. The proposed 10-foot height of the fence seems drastic. If approved, the
    proposed fence would definitely change the serene look and feel of this area. Adding a narrow landscaping buffer in
    front of the fence could soften and buffer the industrial look of the proposed extreme.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
2. Fences over 7-feet tall require a building permit, if approved a building permit will be required.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic:
3. Recommend doing a sound study to make sure the wall will do what you want it to.
Kim – Planning:
4. Recommend that the wall be placed in a location that takes into account the future 7' planter strip and 5' sidewalk along
    1200 E. Otherwise the wall would need to be relocated in the future if the property is subdivided.



THIS ITEM IS SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JUNE 12th

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Proposed Fence at Harding Residence

2693 N !200 E
Lehi, UT

It is our desire to install a sound wall along 1200 E to mitigate the excessive noise from the
road. As you are probably aware, nearly everyone speeds up and down this road and it is very
noisy. We ask for a permit to install a 10’ high wall.

Our house faces north, so this would be on the east side of the house, See Attached
map/diagram. Note that the breaks in the fence are at access points to the different parcels,
and one where Dry Creek goes under 1200E and enters our property.


The wall would look something like this, but 10’ high instead of 6’ as is shown here.




Thank You,
Roger Harding
