                           WEBB FLAG LOT CONDITIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Taylor Butterfield
                         Meeting Date         June 12, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        1312 North 600 East
                          Project Area        0.51-acres
                       Existing Zoning        R-1-Flex
              General Plan Designation        Low Density Residential (LDR)
                    Existing Land Use         Single Family Home
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North RA-1                      Single Family Homes
                                                 South RA-1                      Single Family Homes
                                                  East RA-1                      Seminary Building
                                                  West R-1-8                     Single Family Homes
                     Date of DRC Review       May 21, 2025
                       Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.




                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest

     PROPERTY HISTORY
May 24, 1978                 Property came into the City as part of the Airport Annexation

April 22, 2025               City Council approved the Webb Zone Change from RA-1 to R-1-Flex

     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Webb Flag Lot located at 1312 North 600 East in the R-1-Flex Zone. The
proposal includes a 25-foot stem portion of the flag lot. And the flag portion of the lot is approximately 9, 500 feet.
These both meet the requirements for a flag lot in the R-1-Flex zoning.

Chapter 12 of the Development Code requires five-foot landscaping including evergreens and tall shrubs and a six-
foot sight-obscuring fence along the perimeter of the flag lot because it is less than 10,000 square feet in size.

The Reviewing Departments had four redline comments relating to the flag lot including:
    1. Label pole portion of flag lot as a PUE. Per the Lehi Development Code, the pole portion of flag lot is to be
        a PUE space and therefore additional 10' PUE is not needed, but okay.
    2. Cannot build sidewalk on another's property.
    3. Minimum driveway spacing on 600 E, a Minor Collector, is 150 feet measured centerline to centerline. The
        spacing between the existing and propose driveway is 45 feet. An exception will be need to be granted from
        the City Engineer and Traffic Engineer.

Please include all DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve or approve with conditions the proposed flag lot conditional ues. Any
motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
2.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
3.    That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
      and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
      be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
4.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                        2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 21, 2025

                                                 Webb Flag Lot Conditional Use
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Taylor Butterfield- requests review of the Webb Flag Lot Conditional Use located at 1312 North 600 East.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: none present
Date of Plans Reviewed: 05/12/25
Time Start: 1:58pm
Time End: 1:58pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
1. Label pole portion of flag lot as a PUE. Per the Lehi Development Code, the pole portion of flag lot is to be a PUE
    space and therefore additional 10' PUE is not needed, but okay.
2. Cannot build sidewalk on another's property.
Luke – Traffic:
3. Minimum driveway spacing on 600 E, a Minor Collector, is 150 feet measured centerline to centerline. The spacing
    between the existing and propose driveway is 45 feet. An exception will be need to be granted from the City Engineer
    and Traffic Engineer.
Kim – Planning:
4. When the flag lot area is less than 10,000 square feet, five feet of landscaping including evergreens or other tall shrubs
    that provide a visual barrier and a six-foot sight-obscuring fence shall be required along the perimeter of the flag lot to
    screen the flag lot from neighboring properties.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JUNE 12th AND NEEDS ENVELOPES




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
