                        HOLBROOK PLAT K PLAT AMENDMENT
                                PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant       Boyer
                         Meeting Date        June 12, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose        Approval of a proposed plat amendment
                              Location       Approximately 2100 North 3600 West
     Existing General Plan Designation       Commercial
                       Existing Zoning       Planned Community (PC) and Commercial (C)
                    Existing Land Use        Vacant
                 Number of Lots/Units        5 lots
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North PC                    Townhomes
                                                South Commercial            2100 North
                                                 East PC                    Primary Children’s Hospital
                                                 West Commercial            McDonald’s, Medical Office
                    Date of DRC Review       May 14, 2025
                      Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                            REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.340. Vacating, Altering, or Amending a Recorded Subdivision Plat. (Amended 01/23/24)

A. The Planning Commission, following review by the Reviewing Departments, shall be the Land Use Authority
for approving any proposed vacation, alteration, or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision
plat, or any road or lot contained in a subdivision plat. The Planning Commission shall follow all requirements and
procedures identified in Utah State Code Section 10-9a-608.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

March 7, 2025              Property was recorded as part of Holbrook Farms Plat K, a 3-lot commercial subdivision.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval of the Holbrook Farms Plat K plat amendment. This amendment is to help
facilitate the creation of future commercial development. The original Holbrook Farms Plat K subdivision desig-
nated a large remainder parcel as Lot 104. This plat amendment is proposing to create five additional lots from Lot
104. State regulations require that any subdivision that changes the number of lots within it must amend the subdi-
vision plat.

All proposed lots meet the requirements of the Commercial zone in the Holbrook Farms Area Plan and the Lehi
City Development Code. The Commercial zone in the Holbrook Farms Area Plan does not have a minimum lot size
requirement, nor does the Lehi City Development Code. There are also no minimum frontage requirements.

DRC Comments
There were 10 redline comments, many of which were relating to small utility updates. Some of note include:
1. Show irrigation easement straight to the ROW line.
2.    Use standard city plat template. See Bluebeam for template.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed plat amendment. Any motion should include
findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The proposed subdivision meets/does not meet the requirements of the Development Code.
      2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public meeting.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 14, 2025

                                               Holbrook Plat K Plat Amendment
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Boyer- requests review of the Holbrook Plat K Plat Amendment, adding 5 lots for phase 2, located at approximately Miller
Campus Drive and Waterbury Drive.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Ben Duzett, Kaitlyn Jones, Spencer Moffat
Date of Plans Reviewed: 05/06/25
Time Start: 1:05 PM
Time End: 1:20 PM


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Call out entry number for existing easement at 2100 N. Show width per that easement. Assure new irrigation easement
    does not encroach power easement.
Brad – Fiber: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
2. Show piping of irrigation ditch for Scott Holbrook on all sheets.
3. 400' max per Lehi City standards add MH with access road.
4. Fire hydrants will conflict with storm drain. install hydrants to the north on short side of mains.
5. Install hydrant to the north conflicts with sewer and storm drain
6. 5.35 FL Lehi city standards is 5'6'' to top of pipe adjust road grade.
7. Install Blow off to the north conflicts with storm drain.
8. Move MH to catch Scott Holbrooks ditch to many cores in existing storm drain MH
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works:
A. Prior to precon
        a. Update maps in LTSWMP to reflect changes. I can provide the original LTSWMP if needed.
        b. Update SWPPP prior to precon.
Gary E. – Engineering:
9. Show irrigation easement straight to the ROW line
Luke – Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
10. Use standard city plat template. See bluebeam for template.


THIS ITEM WILL SUBMIT FOR CHECK-OFF’S.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)
PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
1. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
2. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
   improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
3. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
   supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
   necessary supplies for the development.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 14, 2025

4.  Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
    process.
5. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
6. Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).
7. Provide a recordable easement document for all necessary off-site easements (temp. turnarounds, utilities, power, etc).
8. Update Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi
    Public Works (Contact Shelbey Brewer at sbrewer@lehi-ut.gov).
9. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
10. Update Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to reflect changes and send Planning Division and
    Public Works (Shelbey Brewer at sbrewer@lehi-ut.gov) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
    agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
11. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
12. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Submit a title report to be reviewed by Lehi City Attorney.
4. Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
   property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.
5. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
6. Provide a signed original copy of the CC&Rs to record with the plat (to be reviewed by City Attorney).
7. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
