                                MORGAN LANE ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant         Grow Development
                                Meeting Date          June 12, 2025
                     Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                      change
                              Decision Type           Legislative
                                   Location           105 South 1100 West
                                    Acreage           1.13 acres
                            Existing Zoning           RA-1
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           MDR
               Proposed Zoning Designation            R-2
                          Existing Land Use           Single family residential
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North RA-1                Single family residential
                                                       South R-1-Flex           Hunting Farms Subdivision
                                                        East A-1                Single family residential
                                                        West RA-1               Single family residential
                            Date of DRC Review        May 28, 2025
                              Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                  City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

July 26, 1997               Property came into the City as part of the Roger Morgan Addition




Morgan Lane Zone Change
  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation for a zone change from RA-1 to R-2 for a portion of the property
located at 105 South 1100 West. This zone change on 1.13 acres of property provide the potential to create additional
residential lots with a future subdivision application.
The proposed R-2 zoning aligns with the Medium Density Residential designation in the General Plan.

The Development Review Committee (DRC) reviewed the proposed zone change and raised one comment regarding
water dedication. Water dedication will be required before the zone change can be officially recorded. The other
DRC comment pertained to the PUE at the time of subdivision.

  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative items. However, when the proposed zone change is consistent with the General Plan, the
Planning Commission and ultimately City Council would need to provide reasons for denying the proposed zone
change.

The public can speak on the proposed zone change. Comments focused on specific concerns with the zone change are
the most helpful.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed zone change is consistent with the General Plan Designation of Medium Density Residential
         (MDR).
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;




Morgan Lane Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 28, 2025

                                                   Morgan Lane Zone Change
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Grow Development- requests review of the Morgan Zone change located at 105 South 1100 West, changing the zoning on
1.13 acres from RA-1 to R-2.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Brooke Moore
Date of Plans Reviewed: 05/15/25
Time Start: 1:04 pm
Time End: 1:12 pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Will require PUE along this frontage at the time of subdivision.
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
2. Water rights dedication will be required as a condition of the zone change being finalized and the ordinance recorded.
    For the R-2 Zone, a total of 4.6 acre feet per acre is required. When the current RA-1 Zone was established, 3.69 acre
    feet per acre was already dedicated, so the only additional water required would be .91 acre feet per acre of culinary
    water.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JUNE 12, 2025.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Subject: Zoning Map Amendment Application Description

Rezoning Request for Parcel 13:018:0012

Morgan Lane - 105 S 1100 W Lehi



Dear Lehi City,

I am writing to express our intent to rezone approximately 1.13 acres of parcel 13:018:0012 to
facilitate the development of four single-family residential lots fronting 125 South. Each lot would be
75 feet wide and 13,000 +/- square feet in size.

To move forward with this plan, we are formally requesting a rezoning of the property to R-2. This
proposed zoning change aligns with the goals and policies outlined in the General Plan and is
consistent with surrounding land uses. Notably, this zoning was already approved in 2022 to R-2 on
this parcel but since then has expired.

This project would contribute to the availability of larger single-family homes in the area and support
broader efforts to address Utah’s housing shortage.

We appreciate your consideration and look forward to your feedback.




Sincerely,​




Jake Hone
Vice President - Grow Development​
801-891-4110




                                               Grow Development LLC
                           1265 E Fort Union Blvd Suite #302 Cottonwood Heights, UT 84047
