                K2 ELECTRIC CONDITIONAL USE AND SITE PLAN
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        CORE Architecture
                         Meeting Date         June 12, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use and site plan
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        1655 North Boston Street
                          Project Area        1.05 acres
                       Existing Zoning        Light Industrial (LI)
              General Plan Designation        Light Industrial (LI)
                    Existing Land Use         Vacant
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North LI                        Vacant
                                                 South LI                        Concrete manufacturing
                                                  East LI                        Caliber Collision
                                                  West Saratoga Springs          Single-family residential
                     Date of DRC Review       May 28, 2025
                       Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.




                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest.

     PROPERTY HISTORY
March 5, 2025               K2 Electric Concept plan reviewed by the DRC.

August 29, 2024             Property was recorded as part of the Skyline Properties Subdivision.

     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval of the K2 Electric Conditional Use and site plan. K2 Electric is designated as
Office/Warehouse, which is a permitted use in the Light Industrial zone. However, K2 Electric has expressed interest
in storing equipment outside of their building, which would therefore be considered a conditional use in the Light
Industrial zone. City Staff has no concerns with the outside storage as there is adequate space set aside on their lot for
it in addition to their required parking.

K2 Electric will cover approximately one acre on Boston Street. They will provide 30 parking stalls, which meets the
Development Code’s parking requirements. The applicant is not asking for any exceptions to the Development Code.
The applicant has submitted architectural elevations with this site plan, and while they currently do not meet the design
requirements of the Code, the City will continue to work with the applicant to update the architectural elevations to
meet Code requirements before issuing a Building permit.

DRC Comments
There were 19 comments from the DRC. However, many of these pertained to the architectural elevations of the
building, and staff will continue to work with the applicant to meet the architectural design requirements. Some of
note include:

1.    Add plant material to planter beds to satisfy Development Code requirements.
2.    Update traffic impact study to reflect current square footage of the building.
3.    North building elevation needs at least one more architectural feature.
4.    West building elevation needs at least one more architectural feature.

Please include all DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional uses are allowed uses that may have conditions placed upon them. The conditions are to mitigate against
any potential negative impacts the proposal may have on surrounding properties. The Planning Commission may
consider reasonable conditions to place upon the use.

Conditional use items are subject to a public hearing. Comments should focus on potential negative impacts of the use
and solutions to mitigate those impacts.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed conditional use and site plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
2.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.

                                                                                                                        2
3.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
     and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
     be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                       3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 28, 2025

                                          K2 Electrical Site Plan and Conditional Use
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Core Architecture- requests review of the K2 Electric Site Plan and Conditional use, located on 1 acre at 1667 North
Boston Street.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Chris Huntsman, Nathan Brown
Date of Plans Reviewed: 05/15/25
Time Start: 3:15 PM
Time End: 3:30 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Relocate SDMH to be outside of the PUE space. Show and label PUE&RCE
2. Indicate power service size on both the Site Plan and Utilities Plan.
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
3. Franson Engineering and approval will be required to ensure there is no conflict with the ULDC canal company
    requirements shown on the skyline properties commercial properties subdivision plat.
James – Parks:
4. Add plant material (shrubs and/or perennials) to the West boundary landscaping. The landscaping buffering
    requirement applies to the proposed landscaped area on the West boundary.
    Section 12.080-At least 25% of the landscaping shall be evergreen. Deciduous trees shall have a minimum caliper of
    two inch evergreen trees shall have a minimum height of six feet. Shrubs shall be a minimum of five-gallon size
5. Show 6' privacy fence
6. Add plant material to planter beds to satisfy Development Code requirement.
    See Chapter 35.220.D.3
    3. At maturity, landscapes shall have enough plant material (perrenials, shrubs) to create at least 50% living plant cover
    at maturity at the ground plane, not including tree canopies.
7. Add plant material to this planter strip to satisfy code requirement. Add at minimum 18 plants
8. Make it more clear what is sod and what is native grass on the landscaping plan.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works:
A. Prior to precon
         a. SWPPP will be required prior to precon
         b. SSOMP will be required prior to precon
         c. UIC permit will be required for underground detention chambers prior to precon
Gary E. – Engineering:
9. Storm water cannot be released into the storm drain system in the street. This lot needs to retain on site its own storm
    water.
10. Revise storm drain calculations showing no release rate.
11. Add note to drawing:
    Permanent stormwater retention facility to be owned and maintained by the owner(s) of the property and not to be
    altered without approval by Lehi City Council and City Engineer
Luke – Traffic:
12. Update traffic impact study to reflect current square footage of the building.
Kim – Planning:
13. What is note 22? Not listed in the notes.
14. Include percentages of the building materials used. Stucco and EIFS may be used up to 40% of each wall area
    excluding windows and doors and as a secondary material only.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 28, 2025

15. Each building facade shall include at least three of the following features:
    a. columns or pilasters
    b. decorative cornice
    c. awnings or canopies
    d. covered walkways
    e. decorative lighting
    f. string course of differing color or material
    g. wainscot of a minimum 30 inches in height except for under windows
    h. other comparable architectural features as approved by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission.

16. North elevation needs at least one more architectural feature.
17. West elevation needs at least one more architectural feature.
18. A minimum of 20% of the facade area on the first floor facing the street shall consist of glass.
19. Provide documentation that the Canal Company is okay with building within the no-build area of the canal.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAILGATE, NONE)


ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
    landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
    Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
    must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
    process.
5. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
6. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
    Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com). More information available at https://www.lehi-
    ut.gov/departments/water/storm-water/
7. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
8. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
    Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
    agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
9. Provide approval letter from the State (UDEQ) for Class V UIC Injection Well.
STAFF
10. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
11. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
12. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 28, 2025

     made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
     sheet.
5.   Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
     and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6.   All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7.   All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
     being granted.
8.   The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
     by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9.   Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
     be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
     provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
     loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
     construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.

THIS ITEM IS/IS NOT REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.
(An exception requires stamped addressed envelopes for public noticing if the project proceeds to Planning Commission)

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JUNE 12TH. (NEED ENVELOPES BEFORE
SCHEDULING IF CONDITIONAL USE)
PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                3 of 3
May 14, 2025

Lehi City Planning Division
153 North 100 East
Lehi, UT 84043


RE: K2 Electric Office Building Conditional Use for Outdoor Storage Narrative

Lehi City Planning Division,

In compliance with the Application for Conditional Use Permit Approval Application, I would
like to provide a narrative of the proposed use of outdoor storage on the K2 Electric Office
Building site.

The main use of the site will be as an office/warehouse building. This use requires 22 parking
stalls, and 30 stalls have been provided on the site plan. The hours of operation for this building
are expected to be 8:00am to 5:00pm. Employes are expected to park on site, while very few
patrons are expected.

K2 Electric proposes a conditional use permit for outdoor storage to be located on the West side
of the property, screened by the building when viewed from the road, and behind a 6’-0” tall
privacy fence and gate. When viewing the site from the road, it will be very difficult to see
anything that is stored on the property, with the building blocking the majority of the storage
area and a privacy fence blocking the rest. A 6’-0” tall privacy fence is also planned to surround
the property from the north, west, and south sides.

As a commercial electrical company, the items that will be stored outside will include: PVC and
metal EMT conduit, wire pulling trailers, wooden wire spools, junction boxes, and other similar
electrical items. Specifically, no items of hazardous material or of material that may create a
nuisance to properties in the vicinity will be stored.

This use will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity of the
site and, likewise, not detrimental to public health, safety, general welfare or convenience.
Located at the rear of the site away from public view, this use is in compliance with the goals
and policies of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of the development code. This site is
also of adequate size and dimensions to allow for the construction of this use (namely paving,
concrete, and landscape work) in such a way that it will not be detrimental to adjoining
properties and the area.



                      233 South Pleasant Grove Blvd. Suite 105, Pleasant Grove, Utah 84062
                                     Phone (801) 769-3000 • corearch.com
May 14, 2025

Lehi City Planning Division
153 North 100 East
Lehi, UT 84043


RE: K2 Electric Office Building Site Plan Narrative

Lehi City Planning Division,

We request your consideration for site plan approval for the K2 Electric Office Building project
located at 1655 North Boston Street, Lehi, Utah 84043. The site comprises a 15,051 square foot
footprint building with 18,264 SF of floor space over (2) levels. This building has (2) tenants,
each with office space and a warehouse space.

At the rear of the property is a proposed outdoor storage space behind a privacy fence to shield
the storage area from view from the road and neighbors. A conditional use application has been
submitted along with this site application.

This site requires (22) parking stalls and (30) stalls have been provided. While cross-access is not
desired by either property at this time, future access is possible through the parking area to the
south, and through the paved area at the rear of the building to the north.

Thank you for your consideration of this site plan application.


Chris Huntsman
CORE Architecture
Principal Architect




                      233 South Pleasant Grove Blvd. Suite 105, Pleasant Grove, Utah 84062
                                     Phone (801) 769-3000 • corearch.com
