                   BANK OF UTAH SITE PLAN WITH EXCEPTION
                                PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                            Applicant       Construction Assistants
                         Meeting Date       June 12, 2025
            Requested Action/Purpose        Approval of a proposed site plan
                        Decision Type       Administrative
                             Location       Approximately 2300 West 2100 North
                          Project Area      1.85 acres
                      Existing Zoning       NC (Neighborhood Commercial)
    General Plan Land Use Designation       NC
                    Existing Land Use       Undeveloped
       Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North NC                     2100 N
                                               South R-1-Flex               2100 N Subdivision PUD
                                                East R-1-Flex               2100 N Subdivision PUD
                                                West R-1-8                  Cranberry Ridge Subdivision
                    Date of DRC Review      June 4, 2025
                      Assigned Planner      Jacob Curtis

                                           REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission      Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.260. Site Plan Approval Process.
Permitted Uses.
       1. Site plans associated with a permitted use require review an approval by the Reviewing Departments. Site
    Plans requesting exceptions to Code requirements require approval by the Planning Commission for the requested
    exceptions. The Reviewing Departments may require that the approval of a site plan be forwarded to the Planning
    Commission if they determine the standards in the Development Code are unclear, or that the project is likely to
    have extenuating or unforeseen impacts beyond what would normally be expected on issues such as traffic,
    lighting, or compatibility of uses.

Section 05.020. Zoning Districts Purpose.
O. The Neighborhood Commercial (NC) District is created to provide an area where goods and services are available in
close proximity or adjacent to residential areas. The purpose of this zone is to allow for the development of smaller-
scale retail and service-oriented businesses that are compatible with the adjacent neighborhoods. Developments within
this zone should be designed for a sensitive transition between the Neighborhood Commercial uses and surrounding
residential uses. In order to prevent disturbance to neighboring residential areas, businesses operating hours shall be
between the hours of 6 AM and 11 PM Sunday through Thursday and 6 AM to 12 AM Friday and Saturday. Structures
in this zone are limited in size to a 5,000 square foot footprint unless otherwise approved by the Planning Commission
based on a determination that the building meets the intent of this zone.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

September 23, 1998        The property was annexed into Lehi City with the Alpine School District Annexation.

October 26, 2021          A zone change to R-1-Flex and Neighborhood Commercial and a concept were approved by
                          the City Council.

August 23, 2022           The 2100 N Final Subdivision was approved by the City Council.



Bank of Utah Site Plan
     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Bank of Utah site plan with an exception located at 2100 North and 2300
West. The financial institutions and services and associated drive through facilities uses are permitted in the
neighborhood commercial zone. The Planning Commission’s role is to review the proposed exception.

Typically structures in the neighborhood commercial zone are limited in size to a 5,000 square foot footprint.
However, they can be otherwise approved by the Planning Commission based on a determination that the building
meets the intent of the zone. The proposed building is 5,625 square feet.

The rest of the site was reviewed by the DRC and found to meet the design standard requirements for landscaping,
architectural elevations, and parking.

DRC Comments

The DRC had two comments including the following:

1.    Show landscaping calculations table; parking landscaping percentage, total site landscaping percentage, trees per
      site acre quantity
2.    Update the landscaping plan to match the site plan. The trail and sidewalk in the SW corner is not showing.

           There was also a general comment regarding the limitation in square footage for the building footprint:

      1.   Structures in this zone (NC) are limited in size to a 5,000 square foot footprint unless otherwise approved by
           the Planning Commission based on a determination that the building meets the intent of this zone.

Please consider all DRC comments as part of the motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Site Plans are administrative items that must be approved if they meet the Development Code requirements. This
site plan requests exceptions. The Planning Commission should determine if the intent of the Code is met and these
exceptions should be granted. This is not a public hearing item.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed site plan. Any motion should include
findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or
           improvements in the vicinity and will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, general welfare or
           convenience.
      2.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and
           policies of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
      3.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate
           size and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner
           that it will not be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
      4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public meeting.




Bank of Utah Site Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           June 4, 2025

                                                      Bank of Utah Site Plan
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Construction Assistants - requests review of the Bank of Utah site plan located at approximately 2300 West 2100 North.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Gary Tyler
Date of Plans Reviewed: 05/21/25
Time Start: 1:05 pm
Time End: 1:08 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
James – Parks:
1. Show landscaping calculations table; parking landscaping percentage, total site landscaping percentage, trees per site
    acre quantity
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
Luke – Traffic:
Kim – Planning:
2. Update the landscaping plan to match the site plan. The trail and sidewalk in the SW corner is not showing.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)

General Comments
   1. Structures in this zone (NC) are limited in size to a 5,000 square foot footprint unless otherwise approved by the
        Planning Commission based on a determination that the building meets the intent of this zone.
   2. Make the lighting details readable on Page EL 602

ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
   must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
   process.
5. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
6. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
   Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com). More information available at https://www.lehi-
   ut.gov/departments/water/storm-water/
7. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
   should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
8. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
   Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
   agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           June 4, 2025

9.  Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
10. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
11. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
12. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.

DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.

THIS ITEM IS REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.
(An exception requires stamped addressed envelopes for public noticing if the project proceeds to Planning Commission)

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JUNE 12, 2025.
PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
