                                ROLLER MILLS LOFTS CONCEPT
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                            Applicant          Castle Properties- Adam Maher
                        Meeting Date           June 12, 2025
            Requested Action/Purpose           Review and consideration of a concept plan
                             Location          160 N 850 E
                         Project Area          0.28 acres
                      Existing Zoning          Commercial
    General Plan Land Use Designation          Commercial
       Adjacent Zoning and Land Use               North C               Parking lot
                                                  South C               Restaurant
                                                   East N/A             I-15
                                                   West C               Credit Union
                     Date of DRC Review        June 4, 2025
                       Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission        Review and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and approval of the Roller Mills Lofts Concept plan, a retail/commercial project located
at 160 North 850 East. The applicant desires to receive feedback on the proposed concept. There is a potential exception
that will be needed for a landscaped parking lot island, but the applicant will request that if needed at the time of site
plan.

There are a handful of constraints with the site (UDOT, Power, Sewer) that made it so the applicant asked for this item
to move forward to Planning Commission to get approval on the overall layout. The proposed concept plan is a
permitted use in the commercial zone.

They will need to provide final elevations for review with the site plan submittal to verify they meet the requirements of
the Roller Mills Design District. The possible elevations submitted do not meet those design district requirements.

The DRC had four redline comments, including the following:
1. These parking stalls would require permission and coordination with the adjacent property owner.
2. Site will need to meet the minimum landscaping requirements of 10% of the site and 10% of the parking lot area.
    Bike parking will also be required.
3. This end stall would need to be switched to a landscaped peninsula to meet City Code for parking lot landscaping
    or an exception would need to be granted.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.




Roller Mills Lofts Concept Plan
  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a concept plan this is an administrative item. If it meets the Code it must be approved.

This is a public hearing item. Comments focused on specific concerns and ways to mitigate them are the most
beneficial. The public should also be aware that the Planning Commission can only require those items listed in the
Development Code.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve, approve with modifications, or deny the proposed concept plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
    2. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Roller Mills Lofts Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           June 4, 2025

                                                    Roller Mills Lofts Concept
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Castle Properties- requests review of the Roller Mills Lofts Concept plan, a         retail/commercial project located at 160
North 850 East.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Adam Maher
Date of Plans Reviewed: 05/22/25
Time Start: 1:30 pm
Time End: 1:57 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
1. Please provide additional information with submission to show what the proposed concept is.
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
2. These parking stalls would require permission and coordination with the adjacent property owner.
3. Site will need to meet the minimum landscaping requirements of 10% of the site and 10% of the parking lot area. Bike
    parking will also be required.
4. This end stall would need to be switched to a landscaped peninsula to meet City Code for parking lot landscaping or an
    exception would need to be granted.

DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).
2. At time of site plan, the building will need to meet the Roller Mills Design District standards.
3. Informational for site plan: There is a existing 6'' floor drain line from exist well to existing 36'' storm drain. This will
   have to be re-routed in 20' easement.
4. If this moves past concept a landscaping plan will be required.


THIS ITEM IS REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JUNE 12, 2025.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
To Whom It May Concern,




The following is a project description for the proposed Lehi Roller Lofts project at 160 east
850 north. We deliver a premium retail/commercial shell with the opportunity for
ownership in a market that is normally only for lease. The project would consist of two a
commercial condominiums each with a footprint between 1,800-2,200 sq ft and
approximately 35 ft high. Each unit will be separately owned and be built as a warm shell
with a separate Tenant Improvement package once the units are leased.

I have included the elevation of our recently completed project in Heber to illustrate the
type of finishes. We deliver a high quality retail grade elevation that appeals to a wide range
of commerical tenants. The ground floor would be masonry with the upper elevations of
textured siding, commerical grade windows and a parapet roof.

Amenities will include landscaping, commerical lighting and freeway facing illuminated
signage. Floor plans will be provided once the building is leased but will most likely be
open storage on the main floor with an office or two above.

We are happy to work with staff on any suggestion planning has.



Regards,



Adam Maher

Castle Properties

801-244-5340
