           SKY VIEW WEST ANCHOR SITE PLAN WITH EXCEPTIONS
                                    PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant              Gardner-Plumb
                          Meeting Date              July 10, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose               Approval of proposed exceptions to a site plan
                         Decision Type              Administrative
                              Location              Approximately 240 East Traverse Terrace Drive
                           Project Area             12.96 acres
                       Existing Zoning              Planned Community
     General Plan Land Use Designation              Mixed-Use
                     Existing Land Use              Undeveloped
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use                   North PC (Mixed-Use)       Undeveloped
                                                       South SR-92                Timpanogos Highway
                                                        East PC (Mixed-Use)       Undeveloped
                                                        West PC (Mixed-Use)       Undeveloped
                        Date of DRC Review          July 2, 2025
                          Assigned Planner          Brittney Harris

                                                REQUIRED ACTION
                       Planning Commission          Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.260. Site Plan Approval Process.
Permitted Uses.
       1. Site plans associated with a permitted use require review an approval by the Reviewing Departments. Site
    Plans requesting exceptions to Code requirements require approval by the Planning Commission for the requested
    exceptions. The Reviewing Departments may require that the approval of a site plan be forwarded to the Planning
    Commission if they determine the standards in the Development Code are unclear, or that the project is likely to have
    extenuating or unforeseen impacts beyond what would normally be expected on issues such as traffic, lighting, or
    compatibility of uses.

Section 37.010. General Nonresidential Design Standards.
                 1. A minimum of 20 percent of the facade area on the first floor facing the street shall consist of
                    glass. Where a building is located on a corner lot of two local streets, a minimum of 20 percent of
                    each facade on the first floor shall consist of glass.

                  2.    Each building facade shall include at least three of the following features:

                        a.   columns or pilasters;

                        b.   decorative cornice;

                        c.   awnings or canopies;

                        d.   covered walkways;

                        e.   decorative lighting;

                        f.   string course of differing color or material;




Sky View West Anchor Site Plan
                        g.   wainscot of a minimum 30 inches in height except for under windows; and

                        h.   other comparable architectural features as approved by the Zoning Administrator or Planning
                             Commission.

              ii. Setbacks:
                  1. A maximum setback of 50 feet shall be allowed from a building to a city street for all uses unless
                      otherwise allowed in Section 37.010.B.5.c.2 and Section 37.010.B.5.c.3.

                   2.  The maximum setback may be increased to accommodate existing mainline utilities, grade
                       changes over 20 percent, existing buildings, or other hardship that is not self-imposed to the
                       property.
         b.   Site design standards:

                i. Building orientation:

                   1.   Buildings shall be oriented toward the adjacent public or private street with no off-street parking
                        or drive aisles located between the building and street sidewalk (see Figure 131).
    2.   Exceptions:

    Exceptions to Section 37.010 may be approved by the Planning Commission provided the following:

         a. The applicant shall provide evidence that the exception to the design standards improves the design quality,
            walkability/bike-ability, or ability conduct the proposed use on the subject property, as determined by the
            Planning Commission.

         b. The applicant shall provide justification on how the proposed project fits in with the purpose and vision of
            the design standards district in which it is located.

         c. Exceptions may be granted to allow parking between the building and street, however in the Historic,
            Roller Mills, Urban Village, Mill Pond and Urban Tech Mixed Use Districts, any exception shall be limited
            to a maximum of one module of parking. In all cases where an exception is granted to allow parking
            between the building and the street, an ADA compliant pedestrian access shall be accommodated from the
            building entrance to the street sidewalk.

         d. Buildings located on corner lots shall only be allowed an exception to the building orientation on one side
            of the building with the other side of the building maintaining no parking between the building and the
            street within the Historic, Roller Mills, Urban Village, Mill Pond, and Urban Tech Mixed Use Districts.



  PROPERTY HISTORY

December 11, 2012            City Council approved the Micron Area Plan

April 8, 2022                This property came into Lehi as the Micron East Annexation

August 23, 2022              City Council approved the Skye Area Plan amending the Micron Area Plan

September 19, 2023           City Council approved the Skye Area Plan Second Amendment


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval for exceptions to their site plan known as the Sky View West Anchor located at
approximately 240 East Traverse Terrace Drive.




Sky View West Anchor Site Plan
They are requesting exceptions for the following:
   • Drive aisle between the building and the street (both Traverse Terrace Road and the private access road)
   • Exception to the connectivity standards for block length
   • Exception for the 20 percent glass
   • Windows as the third architectural variation on the north and west walls.

Drive Aisle
The applicant has a drive aisle between the building and the street on the north and west side of the building. This
requires an exception. There is significant grade between the roadways and the building which perhaps may justify
this exception.

Connectivity Standards
The required block length is exceeded with this site plan. The connectivity standards say an exception may be
granted where there is significant grade. This area does have a lot of grade.

Glass
The General Nonresidential Design District requires 20 percent glass on the front façade. The applicant shows 16
percent. They are seeking an exception.

Architectural Variation
The General Nonresidential Design District requires three wall variations on each wall. The North and West walls
propose to include windows as a third variation. This is not specifically listed in the design requirements but it does
allow Planning Commission to approve other features that meet the intent of the Code.

Criteria for Exceptions
The Code states that the applicant shall provide evidence that the exception improves the design quality, is
walkable and bikeable, or is necessary to conduct the proposed use on the proposed property. In other words, the
applicant bears the burden of proof on why the exceptions should be granted.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Site Plans are administrative items that must be approved if they meet the Development Code requirements. This site
plan requests exceptions. The Planning Commission should determine if the intent of the Code is met and these
exceptions should be granted. This is not a public hearing item.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed site plan. Any motion should include findings.
Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed exceptions still meet/ do not mee the intent of the General Nonresidential Design District.
    2.   The proposed exceptions should be granted because of the steep slopes in this area.
    3.   The proposed exceptions to the building elevations still allow for/ do not create a high quality building.
    4.   The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or
         improvements in the vicinity and will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, general welfare or
         convenience.
    5.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and
         policies of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
    6.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate
         size and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that
         it will not be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
    7.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public meeting.




Sky View West Anchor Site Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 2, 2025

                                                Sky View West Anchor Site Plan
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Gardner-Plumb- requests review of the Sky View West Anchor Site Plan located at approximately 240 West Traverse
Terrace Drive

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Howard Cooke and Brady Morris
Date of Plans Reviewed: 06/17/25
Time Start: 1:51pm
Time End: 2:05pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
1. Remove extra valve on PI main.
2. Recommendation to install the 4” lateral to the north retail plat now before school starts
James – Parks:
3. Ensure all islands have trees
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
        Exceptions
                 a. Drive aisle between the building and the streets (both Traverse Terrace Road and the unnamed street)
                      will require an exception from the Planning Commission.
                 b. Exceptions to the connectivity standards for block length would be required for this layout. Exceptions
                      may be granted for issues like grade, existing development, etc. Where there are exceptions, bike and
                      pedestrian connectivity should be maintained.
                 c. The front elevation will require an exception from the required 20% glass or add an additional 4%
                 d. The north and west walls need a third architectural wall variation.
                            i. Planning Commission will need to make the determination whether the windows count as a
                               3rd wall variation. Staff feels like the windows do meet the spirit of the architectural
                               standards.


PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)


ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
   must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
   process.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 2, 2025

5.  Grease trap and sample MH will need TSSD approval.
6.  Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
7.  Provide signed easement verification sheet.
8.  Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
    Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com). More information available at https://www.lehi-
    ut.gov/departments/water/storm-water/
9. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
10. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
    Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
    agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
11. Provide approval letter from the State (UDEQ) for Class V UIC Injection Well.
12. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
13. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
14. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
15. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.

THIS ITEM IS REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.
(An exception requires stamped addressed envelopes for public noticing if the project proceeds to Planning Commission)

THIS ITEM IS SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 10th
PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
               Sky View West Anchor Site Plan Narrative

Gardner-Plumb is pleased to submit plans for a proposed 129,100-square-foot general
merchandise building, intended to serve as a key retail anchor for the Sky View retail center and
within the surrounding community.

The proposed site plan is an approved use under current zoning, and the design has been
thoughtfully planned to minimize any impact on surrounding residential areas. We’ve taken care
to ensure the project will integrate well with the neighborhood and will not create any detrimental
effects on nearby properties.

The site layout includes ample parking, efficient circulation, and designated loading areas to
support the building’s operational needs. The architectural design aligns with surrounding
developments and incorporates durable materials and a clean, modern aesthetic.

This building represents a significant investment in the area and will enhance local retail options
and support continued economic growth. We look forward to working collaboratively with the city
throughout the review process.
