                                    HAMMOND ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant         Justin Hammond
                                Meeting Date          July 10, 2025
                     Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                      change
                              Decision Type           Legislative
                                   Location           Approximately 600 West State Street
                                    Acreage           0.83 acres
                            Existing Zoning           MU
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           C-H (Heavy Commercial)
               Proposed Zoning Designation            C-H
                          Existing Land Use           Undeveloped
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North MU                  Office Warehouse
                                                       South MU                 Church/Office/Warehouse
                                                        East MU                 Single family residential
                                                        West MU                 State Street
                            Date of DRC Review        June 18, 2025
                              Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                  City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872               This property is part of the original incorporated boundaries of Lehi City.




Hammond Zone Change
  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation for a zone change from Mixed-Use to Heavy Commercial for a prop-
erty located at approximately 600 West State Street. This zone change on 0.83 acres of property provides the potential to
build a small office warehouse building as noted in the applicant’s narrative. However, no concept plan was submitted at
this time.

There are other potential uses that could also be built once the zoning is changed, but the suggested use by the applicant
would be consistent with the surrounding area. Additionally, the proposed C-H zoning aligns with the Heavy Commer-
cial designation in the General Plan.
The Development Review Committee (DRC) reviewed the proposed zone change and had no comments on the pro-
posed zone change.

  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative items. However, when the proposed zone change is consistent with the General Plan, the
Planning Commission and ultimately City Council would need to provide reasons for denying the proposed zone
change.

The public can speak on the proposed zone change. Comments focused on specific concerns with the zone change are
the most helpful.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed zone change is consistent with the General Plan Designation of Heavy Commercial (C-H).
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;




Hammond Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           June 18, 2025

                                                     Hammond Zone Change
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Justin Hammond- requests review of the Hammond Zone Change on 0.83-acres located at approximately 600 West State
Street, changing the zoning from Mixed Use to Heavy Commercial.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: None
Date of Plans Reviewed: 06/09/25
Time Start: 2:05 pm
Time End: 2:06 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 10, 2025
(NEED ENVELOPES BEFORE SCHEDULING)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
(1)​ _____ A description of the specific amendment to the Zoning Map which addresses the
     following issues:
         A.​ The reason and justification for the proposed amendment.​
             This parcel is not large enough to justify a mixed use development. The traffic counts aren’t high
             enough to warrant food and beverage service, and the parking requirements for an office
             building or apartments leave very little room for a structure. This particular location is perfect for
             a small office warehouse building.
         B.​ Consistency of the proposed amendment with the goals and policies of the General Plan.​
             Changing from MU to HC is in line with the General Plan.​

       C.​ Compatibility of the proposed zone with the existing land uses of nearby and adjoining
           properties.​
           The parcels on either side of this parcel, for a large stretch, represent similar structures to what
           we are proposing. There are office warehouse buildings surrounding this parcel, and we feel this
           piece would fit right in if it were rezoned.
       D.​ The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area, and
           whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the
           uses, or proposed uses for nearby and adjoining properties;​
           Changing it to Heavy Commercial would make the parcel more conducive to the surrounding
           building’s goals and intentions, not less. Keeping it Mixed Use may have the opposite effect, by
           funneling traffic into a parcel directly adjacent to several residences and office warehouses.
       E.​ The gain to the public health, safety and welfare and overall commuity benefit from the
           existing classification to the proposed amendment.​
           We believe there will be added safety to the adjacent residential street, since traffic won’t be
           funneled into the neighborhood. We believe the office warehouse building we intend to build will
           be asthetically pleasing to look at, and will uplift the surrounding areas visually.
