                            UPPER INVERNESS GRADING PERMIT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                Applicant       DR Horton
                             Meeting Date       July 10, 2025
                 Requested Action/Purpose       Public hearing and recommendation of a proposed grading permit
                          Existing Zoning       Planned Community
                 General Plan Designation       Low Density, Medium Density, Public Facility, Open Space
                        Existing Land Use       Undeveloped Hillside
                     Date of DRC Review         June 11, 2025
                         Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Public hearing and recommendation
                             City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 12-B.050 Grading Permit Issuance.

         (a) When considering the approval of the grading permit the Public Works Director, Reviewing Departments,
         and (when applicable), Planning Commission and City Council, will verify that all of the following criteria are
         met (in addition to other applicable requirements of this code and other city codes):
             (i) Approval of the proposal will not pose a threat to or be detrimental to the public health, safety, and
                   welfare, nor be materially detrimental to fish and wildlife habitat and/or water resources as determined
                   by an expert consultant.
             (ii) The proposal is not in a sensitive lands area, as defined by Sections 12.060 (J) (K) of the Lehi City
                   Development Code.
             (iii) All subdivisions plats and/or site plans must have at least a preliminary approval prior to issuance of a
                   grading permit
EPORT ANALYSIS
  PROPERTY HISTORY
December 11, 2012          City Council approved the Micron Area Plan

April 8, 2022              This property came into Lehi as the Micron East Annexation

August 23, 2022            City Council approved the Skye Area Plan amending the Micron Area Plan

September 19, 2023         City Council approved the Skye Area Plan Second Amendment

April 10, 2025             City Council approved the Inverness Plat D Preliminary Subdivision


  REPORT ANALYSIS
The applicant requests review and recommendation for the Upper Inverness Grading Permit including approximately 693
acres in the upper area of Inverness. This will be the final grading taking place in Inverness and encompasses the right of
way area of Inverness Preliminary Plat D. The applicant explained that part of getting this ready for grading is to allow
for a place to bring in fill from other areas in Inverness. There will not be off-site disposal.

DRC had one redline comment to provide information on the reseeding and the erosion control plan.




Upper Inverness Grading Permit
     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Grading is an administrative item, as long as they meet the requirements of the Code, it must be approved.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed grading permit. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed grading meets the plans for the Inverness Preliminary Plat D
2.    The proposed grading allows for on-site use of material from other phases of Inverness.
3.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements in
      the vicinity.
4.    The proposed use will be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies of the Lehi
      City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
5.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Upper Inverness Grading Permit
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           June 11, 2025

                                                Upper Inverness Grading Permit
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

DR Horton- requests review of the Upper Inverness Grading Permit including 693.4 acres.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Scott Bishop, Ben Tuckett, Landon Larsen
Date of Plans Reviewed: 05/20/25
Time Start: 1:14pm
Time End: 1:23pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
Building permits will be required for any retaining walls over 4 feet in height.
Shelbey – Public Works:
Update SWPPP maps prior to precon
Gary E. – Engineering:
1. Provide a reseeding and erosion control plan with an engineer's estimate if needed
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
Consider with the grading the trail that needs to connect between the upper area and the lower area. The trail needs to be
shown at the time of preliminary as well.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 10th

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)

PRIOR TO PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING
1. Update SWPPP to include this area or submit new SWPPP
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
   improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
   supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
   necessary supplies for the development.
5. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
6. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
   monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
   Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
   Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
     Inverness North Side Grading Permit Narrative

1. The project is a hillside development and will be graded for typical residential
   development.

       a. Approximately 189k yards of cut and 551k yards of fill, subject to change
          to better balance the site.

       b. Significant efforts will be made to keep all material on site.

       c. Completion date 24 to 36 months after approval

       d. Water truck on site to control dust

       e. Track out and SWPPP will be in place – fencing and signage to keep
          unauthorized people offsite

2. Non-disturbance areas are shown on the maps and will be marked in the field to
   ensure the native hillside vegetation remains intact.

3. Vicinity map attached

4. Legal description attached

5. Map of subject area – attached

6. No off site haul routes needed

7. Some retaining walls 4’ or higher may be needed

8. There is an existing ravine in this phase that conveys upstream runoff. The
   proposed grading and roadway (Horton Way) will cross this ravine in one
   location. Piping will be included at this crossing to provide pass-through
   capabilities for the upstream runoff.

9. SWPPP will be done with Silverleaf prior to pre-con

10. Utah State Notice of Intent will be in place prior to pre-con
