                      COLLEDGE FARMS PLAT F CONCEPT PLAN
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Symphony Homes
                         Meeting Date         July 10th, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Recommendation of a concept plan
                        Decision Type         Administrative
                              Location        Approximately 2850 West 1500 North
                          Project Area        5.20 acres
                       Existing Zoning        TH-5
     General Plan Land Use Designation        Very Low-Density Residential Agriculture (VLDRA)
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North R-1-22         Single-family homes
                                                 South R-1-22         Single-family homes
                                                  East R-1-22         Future LDS stake center and meeting
                                                                      house
                                                  West R-1-22         Single-family homes
                     Date of DRC Review       May 7, 2025
                       Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission       Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                            City Council      Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 05.040. Table of District Yard, Bulk and Intensity Requirements. (Amended 3/11/08; 11/15/22)
A. Accompanying the Table of Uses is a companion Table of Bulk and Intensity Requirements. The Table of Bulk and
Intensity Requirements identifies the intensity, site development standards, site coverage standards, and other
requirements for the uses allowed within each Zoning District.

B. The following exceptions to the Bulk and Intensity Requirements listed on Tables 05.040 A and B may be allowed
on a case-by-case basis at the discretion of the applicable Land Use Authority following review and recommendation
from the Reviewing Departments.

    1. Exceptions may be allowed to the minimum lot width or frontage for subdivisions that incorporate traffic calming
    elements in their design.

    Exceptions may be allowed to the minimum lot size, maximum dwelling units per acre, lot width or frontage, or other
    design considerations for subdivisions located along a master planned major roadway or master planned trail or that
    include a planned park, historic monument or other public facility that warrants special consideration in lieu of
    payment to the developer for right-of-way, property dedication, or other improvements required by the General Plan,
    Master Transportation Plan or Design Standards and Public Improvements Specifications Manual.

    2. In order to determine the amount of any additional density allowed, the applicant shall provide two concept plan
    designs: one based on a standard layout that meets all of the bulk and intensity requirements and the other showing
    the proposed layout with the exceptions. The standard layout shall determine the base number of lots and units.

    3. The City Engineer shall review all proposed exceptions to evaluate the density that could be achieved under a
    standard layout that meets all of the bulk and intensity requirements and any additional density that may be allowed
    in lieu of right-of-way, improvements, property dedication or other considerations received by the City. The Engineer
    shall recommend to the applicable Land Use Authority the number of additional lots and units that may be allowed,




Colledge Farms Plat F Concept Plan
     if any.
Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.

Section 11.040. Concept Plan Requirements.
(Amended 08/13/02)
To promote the identification of all items necessary for consideration by the applicant, the following submission
requirements are identified:

A.     overall layout and locations of uses including potential civic and religious uses;

B.     proposed density and intensity of uses and a description of amenities if a density bonus is proposed;

C.     proposed site-planning standards including architecture and materials of buildings;

D.     park areas, open space areas, trails, and other community amenities;

E.     proposed landscaping, buffering, and transitioning treatments;

F.     location of critical lands;

G.     any other item deemed necessary to evaluate the merits of the proposed development by the Planning Division,
Planning Commission, and City Council.




  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of the Colledge Farms Plat F Concept Plan. This is a concept
plan for the construction of a 9-lot single-family home subdivision. The property is zoned TH-5 now with a zone
change pending to change the zone to R-1-22 to match the General Plan Designation of VLDRA. The applicant is
requesting a density-in-lieu to increase the density by two additional lots due to the required widening of 1500 North.

The applicant has submitted two concept plans per the requirements of Chapter 5 in the Development Code. The first
concept shows the preferred layout of the subdivision with the two extra lots. This shows 9 lots and the lots are
between 15,791 square feet and 22,492 square feet. Chapter 5 allows subdivisions that are utilizing the density-in-
lieu to have flexibility in lot sizes and frontages. The second concept plan meets the zoning requirements, but does
not meet the connectivity requirements.

Our Engineering Department has worked with the applicant to determine if the amount of land they would be losing
to the right-of-way for 1500 North would equate to two lots. Engineering believes they are losing enough land to
1500 North that equates only one lot, not two. The applicant would need to justify why an additional lot would be
necessary and beneficial to the city.

There were 10 redline comments from the DRC, including:
1. Maintain city standard 7’ park strip and 5’ sidewalk on 1500 North.
2. There is potential for density in lieu of the 1500 North right of way and improvements. This will require a base
    density layout that meets all of the zoning requirements. If the 1500 North Right of Way does not justify the extra
    lots, we could consider adding additional playground equipment, trees and other improvements for additional
    density.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.




Colledge Farms Plat F Concept Plan
  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a concept plan this is an administrative item. If it meets the Code it must be approved. The applicant is asking for
density-in-lieu for the widening of 1500 North, which grants some flexibility to the development standards. The
Planning Commission will need to determine if this is warranted in this case.

The Planning Commission will provide a recommendation to the City Council. The City Council will ultimately
determine if the density being requested is justified and will have final approval.

This is a public hearing item.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may recommend approval, approval with modifications, or denial of the of the proposed
concept plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
    2. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Colledge Farms Plat F Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           May 7, 2025

                                              Colledge Farms Plat F Concept Plan
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Symphony Homes- requests review of the Colledge Farms Plat F Concept Plan, a residential subdivision with 9 single-
family lots located at approximately 2850 West 1500 North.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Russell Wilson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 4/29/25
Time Start: 11:23am
Time End: 11:41am

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Jake/Glade – Power:
1. Provide, show & label 10’ power easements on preliminary plans
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire:
2. Install a fire hydrant at the entrance onto 2900 W on preliminary plans
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
3. Master planned Water mains on 2850 West are a 10" water and 12" PI. These upsized lines must continue North and
    connect at 1500 North. These are reimbursable by the City.
4. Existing 6'' blow off to be removed. start with construction vales on both water mains.
5. There is existing bends on 14'' Pi main and 12'' culinary main. Lehi City can provide you GIS location of them so you
    can miss them with the tie in.
6. Willow Park church site is installing 30'' storm drain
James – Parks:
7. Maintain city standard 7' park strip and 5' sidewalk on 1500 North.
8. Double fronting lots will require a masonry or precast wall and a landscape and irrigation plan for the park strip along
    1500 N to be maintained by the HOA.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
9. Resend the soil report (unlocked)
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Brad/Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
10. There is potential for density in lieu of the 1500 North right of way and improvements. This will require a base density
    layout that meets all of the zoning requirements. If the 1500 North Right of Way does not justify the extra lots, we
    could consider adding additional playground equipment, trees and other improvements for additional density.




DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).

THIS ITEM IS/IS NOT REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.
(An exception requires stamped addressed envelopes for public noticing if the project proceeds to Planning Commission)

THIS ITEM NEEDS TO RESUBMIT TO DRC WITH THE BASE LAYOUT




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
April 29, 2025

Lehi City Planning & Zoning
C/O Ms. Brittney Harris
153 North 100 East
Lehi, Utah 84043

RE: Application for Concept Review for 5.20 Acres Located at Approximately 2850 West 1500 North
(Utah County Parcel No. 58-026-0064)

Dear Ms. Harris:

Please see the enclosed Application for Concept Review to be reviewed jointly with the Application for
Zoning Map Amendment submitted previously for 5.20 acres located at approximately 2850 West and
1500 North, Lehi.

Symphony Development is seeking a zoning map amendment from TH-5 to R-1-22 zoning as well as
concept plan approval for a 9-lot single-family residential subdivision. The 9-lot concept is within the
maximum 1.75 dwelling units per acre as required by the zoning code, but slightly under the 22,000
square foot minimum lot size. We respectfully request some design flexibility of lot size in lieu of
Symphony’s installation of road improvements to the 1500 North collector street as allowed by city code
at the discretion of Lehi City Planning Commission and City Council. The average lot size of the 9-lots
proposed is 19,200 square feet (0.44 acres) which is comparable in size to the existing Colledge Farms
neighborhood, but those reduced lot sizes (under 22,000 square feet) were achieved within a PRD
overlay.

It is our intention to incorporate this subdivision with the Colledge Farms neighborhood which will have
lots and homes comparable in size and quality, previously built by our company.

We appreciate your consideration of our application and look forward to continuing to work with you to
create a beautiful community that Lehi City and its residents can be proud of for many generations to
come. Feel free to reach out to me at (801) 691-4843 or rwilson@symphonydev.com with any questions
or concerns.

Sincerely,


Russell Wilson
Vice President, Symphony Development
