                      BARRON HIGHLANDS PLAT AMENDMENT
                                PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant       Natalie Barron
                         Meeting Date        July 10, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose        Approval of a proposed plat amendment
                              Location       25 East 2200 North
     Existing General Plan Designation       Very Low Density Residential (VLDR)
                       Existing Zoning       R-1-15
                    Existing Land Use        Undeveloped Land
                 Number of Lots/Units        2 Lots
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North R-1-12                Single Family Homes
                                                South R-1-15                Single Family Homes
                                                 East A-1                   Single Family Homes
                                                 West R-1-15                Single Family Homes
                    Date of DRC Review       June 18, 2025
                      Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                            REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.340. Vacating, Altering, or Amending a Recorded Subdivision Plat. (Amended 01/23/24)

A. The Planning Commission, following review by the Reviewing Departments, shall be the Land Use Authority
for approving any proposed vacation, alteration, or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision
plat, or any road or lot contained in a subdivision plat. The Planning Commission shall follow all requirements and
procedures identified in Utah State Code Section 10-9a-608.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

May 25, 1993      City Council approved the Carter Ridge Plat A Subdivision

June 2, 1993      Property came into the City as part of the Carter Estates Addition


  REPORT ANALYSIS
The applicant requests approval of the Barron Highlands Plat A Plat Amendment amending Lot 1 of Carter Ridge
Subdivision dividing Lot 1 into two lots located at 25 East 2200 North in the R-1-15 zone.

The applicant proposes subdividing Lot 1 in two lots that are 20,000 square feet in size, exceeding the minimum
15,000 square foot requirement. The lots can also meet the setbacks and other requirements of the R-1-15 zone.

DRC reviewed the proposed plat amendment and had seven redline comments including:
1. Provide, show & label a 15’ PUE&RCE at frontages. Where water meters and hydrants are not located in a
   planter strip, a 15’ easement is required.
2. Add note to plat: Lot 2 shall not have driveway access to Center Street.

Please include all DRC Comments in your motion.
 POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or approve with Code required modifications the proposed plat
amendment. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed plat amendment meets the requirement of the R-1-15 zone.
    2.   The proposed subdivision meets/does not meet the requirements of the Development Code.
    3.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public meeting.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           June 18, 2025

                                              Barron Highlands Plat Amendment
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Natalie Barron- requests review of the Barron Highlands plat amendment amending Lot 1 of the Carter Ridge Subdivision
located at 25 East 2200 North.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Natalie Barron
Date of Plans Reviewed: 06/10/25
Time Start: 2:30 pm
Time End: 2:39 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Provide, show & label a 15’ PUE&RCE at frontages. Where water meters and hydrants are not located in a planter
    strip, a 15’ easement is required.
2. Please add power details. (Trenching, transformer and dome placement).
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
3. Install water meters 5' off of property line so they do not conflict with drive way for future home.
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
4. Add note to the plat that a soil report will be required at the time of building permit.
5. Add a note on the plat that all property corners to be marked with capped 5/8” rebar and pins in the top of curb.
6. Replace 1” with a ¾” culinary service on Lot 1.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
FYI, a SWPPP will need to be submitted before you start construction on the homes
Gary E. – Engineering:
7. Add note to plat:
    Lot 2 shall not have driveway access to Center Street
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 10, 2025.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)

1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
   improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
   supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
   necessary supplies for the development.
5. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
6. Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).
7. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
   monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           June 18, 2025

   Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
   Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
8. Address any comments or conditions from Planning Commission approval of the preliminary
9. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Submit a title report to the planner over the project for review.
4. Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
   property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.
5. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
6. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.
STAFF
7. Send a digital copy of the plat to the County for review prior to accepting printed mylar.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
Barron Highlands two lot Subdivision created from Lot 1 of Carter Ridge Subdivision Plat A
Property Tax ID #: 36:459:0001
Applicant: Natalie Barron

We have recently acquired Lot 1 (25 East 2200 North) of Carter Ridge right next to our home (on
Lot 2 – 61 East 2200 North). In May, we received approval for a zone change for Lot 1 from A-1
to R-1-15. We are now ready to sub divide the acre equally into approximately two ½ acres with
the one ½ acre facing south onto 2200 north and one facing west onto Center Street.

The Lehi planning and zoning department told us to complete the application for final plat
amendment which is included.

Our purpose for requesting this amendment is to provide two lots for our children to build
homes next to us.
