                        COLLEDGE FARMS PLAT F CONCEPT PLAN
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant        Symphony Homes
                          Meeting Date         July 31, 2025
              Requested Action/Purpose         Recommendation of a concept plan
                         Decision Type         Administrative
                               Location        Approximately 2850 West 1500 North
                           Project Area        5.18 acres
                        Existing Zoning        TH-5
      General Plan Land Use Designation        Very Low-Density Residential Agriculture (VLDRA)
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North R-1-22       Single-family homes
                                                  South R-1-22       Single-family homes
                                                   East R-1-22       Future LDS stake center and meeting house
                                                   West R-1-22       Single-family homes
                       Date of DRC Review      July 23, 2025
                         Assigned Planner      Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                      Planning Commission      Public hearing, review, and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.

Section 37.040. Connectivity Standards.
        A. Residential Connectivity Standards. All new residential subdivisions with ten or more units or more
             than one acre shall meet the following connectivity index, block length, and cul-de-sac length standards
             for private and public roads.

             1.    Required Connectivity Index. The minimum required connectivity index shall be required based
                   on the project density as identified in the following table of minimum connectivity index scores:

                                  Density                       Index Score
                                  0-2.5 DU/AC                   1.5
                                  2.6-4 DU/AC                   1.6
                                  4.1-6 DU/AC                   1.7
                                  6+DU/AC                       1.8
             2.    Maximum Block Lengths. Maximum block lengths allowed shall be required based on the project
                   density as identified on the following table of maximum block lengths:

                     Density                                         Block Length
                  0-2.5 DU/AC                       1,000 ft. street and pedestrian block length
                  2.6-4 DU/AC                         800 ft. street and pedestrian block length
                  4.1-6 DU/AC                         600 ft. street and pedestrian block length
                  6.1+ DU/AC                 600 ft. street block length and 400 ft. pedestrian block length




Colledge Farms Plat F Concept Plan
  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests recommendation of the Colledge Farms Plat F concept plan. The applicant is requesting to
add the 5-acre parcel in question to the original Colledge Farms Planned Residential Development that was approved
by the City Council in 2016. This report will discuss the overall layout of the proposed subdivision, the original
Colledge Farms PRD, and the DRC comments.

Layout
Symphony Homes is proposing 9 residential lots on 5 acres and to have it be added to the original Colledge Farms
PRD. Under traditional zoning, only 7 would be allowed due to the minimum lot size requirement of 22,000 square-
feet for the R-1-22 zone. However, the overall density is below the 1.75 units per acre as required by the zone.
Symphony Homes is also installing road improvements to 1500 North, including a 10-foot landscaping buffer along
lots 1 and 9 to create a more aesthetically pleasing entrance to the subdivision that will be owned and maintained by
the HOA. With these improvements, the Engineering Department determined that there was enough road dedication
for 1500 North to equate to one additional lot, which would bring them to 8 lots. The applicant is hoping to attain
one additional lot to reach their preferred layout through park and open space improvements and not utilizing their
full density under the original Colledge Farms PRD.

Under the 9-lot layout, all of the lots are below the 22,000 square-foot minimum. The average size of the 9 lots is
18,677 square-feet. This approximately matches most of the surrounding lots as the original Colledge Farms PRD
has many units that are closer to a third of an acre rather than 22,000 square-foot lots. The development also has 2850
West connecting through to 1500 North to meet the Development Codes connectivity standards.

Original PRD
The original Colledge Farms PRD was approved by the City Council in 2016 with construction beginning in 2018.
The original concept plan was approved to have 98 units. The original concept plan also dedicated 15 acres of the
total 69 acres as open space, which exceeds the 20% minimum open space requirement of a PRD.

In 2024, a buyer of one of the lots in Colledge Farm wished to consolidate two lots into one as part of the Colledge
Farms Plat D First Amendment plat. This was recorded, and therefore only 97 units were built in the original Colledge
Farms PRD rather than the full 98. Further, as the applicant exceeded the minimum open space requirement, they are
proposing to make improvements to justify an additional lot to get to 9 lots in their current proposed concept.

DRC Comments
There were 8 redline comments from the DRC in total, many pertaining to comments to be considered at preliminary
subdivision approval. Some of note include:
1. 1500 North frontage landscaping to be installed by the developer and maintained by the HOA. Please add a note to
    the plat to the effect that the park strip landscaping will be maintained by the HOA.
2. The Engineering Department is supportive of offering one lot density in lieu of the ROW and paving along 1500
    North, but is strongly opposed to opening up a previously approved PRD and reassigning density. Among other
    reasons, this could set an unwanted precedence for future and past developments and developers wanting to
    transfer previously unused allowable density to other areas.
3. Planning staff supports amending the PRD to allow for an additional lot in addition to the lot gained by the
    ROW, based on the fact that one extra lot was left over due to a plat amendment, and the full density for the
    original PRD previously approved by the Planning Commission and City Council was not utilized.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a concept plan this is an administrative item. The applicant is asking to consider amending the original Colledge
Farms PRD to add 5 acres to the PRD to allow for 9 more units of density. The City Council will have the ultimate
decision to approve the concept plan or not. The Planning Commission will make a recommendation to approve the
concept plan or not.




Colledge Farms Plat F Concept Plan
This is a public hearing item.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may recommend approval, approval with modifications, or recommend denial of the
proposed concept plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
    2. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Colledge Farms Plat F Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                               July 23, 2025

                                                 Colledge Farms Plat F Concept
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Symphony Homes- requests review of the Colledge Farms Plat F Concept Plan, amending the original Colledge Farms
PRD to allow for a 9-lot subdivision located at approximately 2900 West 1500 North.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Russell Wilson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 7/15/25
Time Start: 1:05 PM
Time End: 1:10 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Brad – Fiber:
A. General Comment:
    In accordance with Lehi Power Standard 4.2.1, all new power conduit installations shall include a developer-supplied
    4-way 16/13mm micro-duct system placed concurrently within the trench section. A detailed Communications Plan,
    including conduit routing, access points, and end use requirements, shall be submitted and reviewed during the
    preconstruction meeting. Inspection protocols, conduit verification procedures, and installation specifications will also
    be addressed at that time.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
1. Lehi city master plan water mains are 12'' pi main and 10'' culinary main on 2850 this will be extended to 1500 north.
2. Dual pipe connections will not be allowed per lehi city standards. change to combo box.
3. existing 36'' storm drain to be removed to MH. from existing ditch.
James – Parks:
4. At preliminary, please provide landscape and irrigation plans.
5. 1500 North frontage landscaping to be installed by the developer and maintained by the HOA. Please add a note to the
    plat to the effect that the park strip landscaping will be maintained by the HOA.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
6. A soil report will be required if this moves past concept.
Shelbey – Public Works:
A. Precon:
         a. SWPPP will be required prior to precon.
Gary E. – Engineering:
7. The Engineering Department is supportive of offering one lot density in lieu of the ROW and paving along 1500
    North, but is strongly opposed to opening up a previously approved PRD and reassigning density. Among other
    reasons, this could set an unwanted precedence for future and past developments and developers wanting to transfer
    previously unused allowable density to other areas.
Luke – Traffic:
Kim – Planning:
8. Planning staff supports amending the PRD to allow for an additional lot in addition to the lot gained by the ROW,
    based on the fact that one extra lot was left over due to a plat amendment, and the full density for the original PRD
    previously approved by the Planning Commission and City Council was not utilized.




DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                               July 23, 2025

THIS ITEM IS/IS NOT REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.
(An exception requires stamped addressed envelopes for public noticing if the project proceeds to Planning Commission)

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 31ST.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
July 11, 2025

Lehi City Planning & Zoning
C/O Ms. Katie Bussell
153 North 100 East
Lehi, Utah 84043

RE: Amended Application for Concept Review for 5.20 Acres Located at Approximately 2850 West
1500 North (Utah County Parcel No. 58-026-0064)

Dear Ms. Bussell:

Please see the enclosed amended Application for Concept Review to be reviewed jointly with the
Application for Zoning Map Amendment previously submitted for 5.20 acres located at approximately
2850 West and 1500 North, Lehi (the “Property”).

Symphony Development (“Symphony”) is seeking a zoning map amendment from TH-5 to R-1-22 zoning
for the Property as well as concept plan approval for a 9-lot single-family residential subdivision. The
following information is provided to assist you in your review of our applications:

Brief History

Colledge Farms PRD (aka “Riverwalk”) located at approximately 1350 North and 2550 West was
developed by Symphony starting in 2018. Symphony is actively building homes in the community and
remains the declarant of Colledge Farms Owners Association, Inc (the “HOA”). The overall community
originally consisted of 98-lots which were developed in five phases. The PRD required the dedication of
approximately 2.28 acres of land to the HOA for open space and 10+ acres of land to Lehi City. The
density calculation for the 98 lots was “… based on the original base density of 94 lots, plus 2 lots for the
property dedication across the trail (1 lot per 5 acres) and 2 lots for the construction of the single loaded
roadway along the river. The total density is 98 units.” The community also contains a swimming pool,
park, and playground which are owned and operated by the HOA but were not required by the PRD
ordinance or zoning approval.

Plat Amendment

It should be noted that in 2023, at the request of a client, Symphony amended Colledge Farms Plat “D”
combining two lots into one, thus reducing the overall density of Colledge Farms PRD to 97 units.

Current Application

Symphony Development is requesting to amend Colledge Farms PRD to include an additional 9-lot phase
on the north side of the development adjacent to Colledge Farms Plat “C”. We anticipate that this new
phase will be annexed into the HOA so it can enjoy the open space and amenities provided for the
community. It is also intended that all the lots and homes will be comparable in size and quality to those
previously built by Symphony.

The proposed concept plan labeled “Colledge Farms Plat “F” will continue 2850 West and connect to
1500 North. The average lot size of the 9-lots shown is 18,677 square feet (0.43 acres), comparable in
size to the existing lots in Colledge Farms. This design is within the maximum 1.75 dwelling units per
acre as required by the zoning code (1.75 units x 5.20 acres = 9.1 units), but the base plan shows that
only 7-lots can be achieved that meet the 22,000 square foot and lot width minimums. With this,
Symphony is requesting some design flexibility of lot size in lieu of Symphony’s installation of road
improvements to the 1500 North collector street. We appreciate the City Engineer’s recommendation of
a one-lot density bonus in exchange for the road dedication. To achieve 9-lots as proposed, Symphony
kindly requests that the city allocate the density unit that was removed from the PRD during the plat
amendment described above, to this new phase. Additionally, Symphony will dedicate additional land to
the HOA for common area and landscape buffer at the new 1500 North entrance which we believe will
greatly improve the visual aesthetics of 1500 North and the entrance to the Colledge Farms community.

We appreciate your consideration of our application and look forward to continuing to work with you to
create a beautiful community that Lehi City and its residents can be proud of for many generations to
come. Feel free to reach out to me at (801) 691-4843 or rwilson@symphonydev.com with any questions
or concerns.

Sincerely,


Russell Wilson
Vice President, Symphony Development
