               CHAPTER 12-C DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                             RETAINING WALLS
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant        Lehi Engineering
                           Meeting Date         July 31, 2025
                Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation on proposed amendments to the Lehi City
                                                Development Code
                            Decision Type       Legislative
                      Date of DRC Review        July 16, 2025

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                             City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General Plan.
In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and the City
Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties.
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

Lehi City requests review and approval of amendments to Chapter 12 of the Development Code, adding an additional
subchapter regarding retaining walls. Gary Ellis joined the Lehi City Engineering team over a year ago, before that he
worked for many years as a structural engineer. He wrote this proposed retaining wall ordinance with review by the
rest of engineering and the Reviewing Departments. It relies heavily on his expertise as a structural engineer.

The proposed amendment has the stated goal of increasing safety for people and property, appropriately dealing with
drainage and run-off, and preserving our hillside areas. The proposal includes a list of items that need to be included
with retaining walls submittals to ensure they are fully engineered.

Perhaps the biggest change is not allowing rock or boulder walls on anything over four feet in height. These type of
retaining walls are best for landscaping type grading and retaining, not the retaining of large areas of steep slopes. The
retaining walls that have had issues in Traverse Mountain are mostly these rock retaining walls. This change is for
safety reasons. Rock retaining walls also include large rocks that can roll and bounce and cause damage to both life
and property.

The Code also addresses tiered retaining systems, and requirements for drainage around the retaining wall.

The Reviewing Departments and had six comments. These are mostly rewording for clarification suggestions. Please
consider including all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Development Code Amendments are legislative items which allows for the Planning Commission to provide feedback
on whether or not they support the changes and also they can request any changes they would like to see to the pro-
posal.

Residents may also speak to Development Code Amendments. They also can share why they support or not different
aspects of the proposed change. For any changes to be implemented, the Planning Commission and ultimately the City
Council will need to include any changes in their motion for them to be incorporated.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval , approval with modifications, or denial of the
proposed amendments to the Lehi City Development Code. Any motion should include findings. Possible find-
ings include:

    1.   The proposed Development Code Amendment will increase the safety of development on and near hillsides
         by requiring a higher level of engineering with retaining walls.
    2.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provi-
         sions of the General Plan and its various elements.
    3.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 16, 2025

                                       Retaining Wall Development Code Amendment
                                                 DRC Redline Comments

Lehi City- requests review of the Retaining Wall Development Code Amendment

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner:
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Gary Ellis
Date of Plans Reviewed:
Time Start: 1:25 PM
Time End: 1:44 PM


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. No mechanical stabilization devices may encroach PUE or Roadway space.
2. What about the CRSI?
3. ? 1.12 is the 1/3 increase typical for short-term loads.
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks:
4. How close to the wall does a structure need to be in order to be defined as "supported" by the retaining wall?
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
5. Would it be good to name this something else so it does not get confused with our regular preconstruction meeting
    process?
        a. Retaining wall construction meeting
6. Missing connecting words on page 2: a., the, of



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 31ST.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Chapter 12-C



RETAINING WALL REQUIREMENTS



Section 12-C.010     Retaining Wall Requirement Purpose and Intent

Section 12-C.020     Retaining Wall Requirement General Provisions

Section 12-C.030     Retaining Wall Requirement Design Requirements



Section 12-C.010     Retaining Wall Requirement Purpose and Intent

   A. The purpose of this chapter is to establish the requirements and minimum design
      standards for retaining wall design and construction
   B. The reason to provide the design standards herein are to:
          1. Ensure safe structures are being constructed and will function as intended
          2. Ensure the drainage and water runoff are adequately addressed
          3. Protect property, health, safety and general welfare of the residents of Lehi
               City
          4. Protect property owner’s rights
          5. Assist in the maintenance and preservation of hillside areas
          6. Maintain the aesthetics of the community
   C. The City’s approval of retaining wall plans does not convey design responsibility to
      the City. Responsibility for the design lies solely with the design professional(s).

Section 12-C.020     Retaining Wall Requirement General Provisions

   A. This section applies to all retaining walls that retain 4’-0” (See section 12-C.020 G, 2
      for definition of wall height) or more in height.
   B. Building Permit requirements:
          1. All walls meeting section 12-C.020 A, unless it is exempt in paragraph F, shall
              be required to have a building permit and provide the required submittals as
              specified in section 12-C.020 B, 7 for review prior to issuance of a building
              permit for construction of new walls or alteration of existing walls.
          2. Each wall design shall be specific to the site and not a generic standard
              design.
3. All submittals for a building permit shall be stamped by a registered
   professional civil, structural or geotechnical engineer registered in the State
   of Utah with experience designing the type of wall specified for the project.
4. Building permit review fees shall be assessed and collected at the time the
   permit is issued.
5. Permit applications shall be processed and issued in accordance with the
   Building Division permit procedures and applicable provisions of the
   Development Code.
6. Retaining wall permits are issued as a separate permit and are not included
   in permits for new homes, remodels, additions, etc.
7. Submittals for a building permit shall include:
       a. structural design calculations,
       b. structural drawings
       c. a drainage plan showing slopes, grades, pipes, detention and
          retention facilities and other associated details pertaining to the
          drainage of the wall,
       d. profile drawings of the wall if the retaining wall is longer than 50 lineal
          feet, with the footing elevation and top of wall elevations labeled at
          the ends of the wall and every 25 linear feet or change in grade or
          height,
       e. cross-sectional drawings including drainage system behind wall as
          well as surface grades and structures located in front and behind the
          retaining wall a distance equivalent to two times the height of the
          retaining wall with level fill. Additionally, if the retaining wall is
          supporting sloped fill, then the cross section shall include the fill
          slope showing surface grades and structures within a horizontal
          distance equivalent to three times the height of the retaining wall,

       f. a site plan showing the location of the retaining wall(s),

       g. a copy of the geotechnical report used by the design engineer. The
          geotechnical report needs to include, but is not limited to:

             i.     allowable soil bearing value
             ii.    soil and footing friction factor
             iii.   soil unit weights
             iv.    seismic design criteria and information
             v.     the active, passive and at-rest equivalent fluid pressures of
                    the soil as well as the associated k values,
                   vi.    if a geotechnical report was conducted at an off-site location
                          that is to be used for the design of the wall(s) that has similar
                          soils, it needs to be within a 2000-foot radius of the proposed
                          wall location(s), and the geotechnical report needs to be
                          submitted,
                   vii.   if a Proctor test is completed, the type of testing shall be
                          identified and submitted with the Proctor results.

             h. material strength and parameters used in the design of the retaining
                wall or laboratory testing results of the materials used as needed to
                substantiate non-standard building products as follows:

                   i.       concrete and/or masonry design strengths,
                   ii.      steel reinforcement grade and type,
                   iii.     laboratory testing results of other materials in accordance
                            with applicable American Society for Testing and Materials
                            (ASTM) standards,
                    iv.     for segmented block walls, the manufacturer's test data for
                            the wall facing, soil reinforcement and connection
                            parameters shall be submitted.
C. No rock or boulder walls shall be allowed for retained fill more than 4’-0” and shall
   be used for landscaping purposes only. No structures, roadways or surcharge loads
   shall be supported above and rely on rock or boulder walls for support.
D. Wall systems 4’-0” or taller which are based on organic material such as treated
   lumber or railroad ties are not allowed and shall be used for landscaping purposes
   only. No structures, roadways or surcharge loads shall be supported above and rely
   on walls constructed with organic material for support.
E. All retaining walls with footings shall have the bottom of the footings embedded in
   the soil below the frost depth as measured from the front face of the wall.
F. Building permit exemptions:
        1. The following walls do not require a building permit:

             a. Walls that retain less than 4’-0” of fill behind the wall

             b. Non-tiered retaining walls with less than 50 square feet of exposed
                wall surface area that are less than five feet in exposed height with
                back slopes flatter than or equal to 4H:1V within ten feet of the wall;
                and having front slopes no steeper than or equal to 4H:1V and which
                do not support any structure, roadway or surcharge behind the wall.
             c. Tiered retaining walls less than a total of 100 square feet of exposed
                wall surface area, less than five feet in exposed height per wall, have
                front slopes and back slopes of each wall no steeper than or equal to
                6H:1V within ten feet of the walls, have a five foot minimum spacing
                between front face of the upper wall and back edge of the lower wall
                and which do not support any structure, roadway or surcharge behind
                the walls.

G. Location, Height, Separation and Plantings:

      1. No retaining wall, or portions thereof, shall be placed on land designated as
         a recorded easement, such as a utility or trail easement, unless the owner(s)
         of said easement agrees to allow the encroachment. Documentation of the
         agreement shall be provided to the City.

      2. For the purposes of this code, the height of a retaining wall is measured as
         exposed height (Ht) of wall of an individual tier.

      3. Terracing of retaining walls is permitted where justified by topographic
         conditions. Walls with a separation of at least 2Ht (Ht of largest of the two
         walls) from the front face of the upper wall and back edge of the lower wall
         shall be considered as separate walls for analysis purposes and applicability
         to this ordinance.

      4. In a terrace of retaining walls, a minimum horizontal separation of Ht/2 (Ht of
         the lower wall) is required as measured from the front face of the upper wall
         and back edge of the lower wall.

      5. For terraced walls, the horizontal separation between walls shall be planted
         with a minimum of five shrubs for every 20 linear feet of planting area. The
         size of the shrubs shall be less than one-half the width of the terrace when
         fully grown. Shrubs shall be drip irrigated and when possible and the use of
         drought resistant vegetation is encouraged to minimize future watering
         needs. The drip irrigation system shall be installed by the Developer or owner
         and the future owner(s) of the property shall be responsible for the drip
         irrigation maintenance and cost of operation after the warranty period
         expires.

H. No retaining wall component, or construction disturbance during construction of
   the wall, shall extend beyond the property lines unless written permission in the
   form of an easement (permanent or temporary) is obtained from the affected
   property owner(s).
   I. Preconstruction Meeting: At least 48 hours prior to the construction of any approved
      retaining wall, a preconstruction meeting shall be held as directed by the Building
      Official. The meeting shall include the Building Official or their representative, the
      design engineer, the contractor and the project owner or their representative. The
      preconstruction meeting can be waived at the discretion of the Building Official.

   J. Modification of existing walls shall be treated the same as if it were a new wall with
      the same design and approval requirements and process.

Section 12-C.030     Retaining Wall Design Requirements

   A. The design engineer shall indicate the design standards used and provide the design
      calculations and details in accordance with the following:
         1. Design calculations ensuring stability against overturning, base sliding,
             excessive foundation settlement, bearing capacity and global stability. A
             minimum safety factor of 1.50 is required for the static analysis for
             overturning and sliding and a minimum safety factor of 1.10 for load
             combinations including seismic.
         2. Calculations shall include analysis under static, surcharge and seismic
             loads. The seismic loading shall be based on the Peak Ground Acceleration
             (PGA) as determined from probabilistic analysis for the maximum credible
             earthquake (MCE), with the spectral acceleration factored for site conditions
             in accordance with the currently adopted IBC and ASCE 7 codes.

          3. Mechanically Stabilized Earth (MSE) walls shall be designed in accordance
             with current FHWA or AASHTO standards for design of Mechanically
             Stabilized Earth Walls and Reinforced Soil Slopes or the current National
             Concrete Masonry Association (NCMA) Design Manual for Segmental
             Retaining Walls.

          4. Rock walls, smaller than 4’-0” tall, shall be designed in accordance with
             2006 FHWA-CFL/TD-06-006 “Rockery Design and Construction Guidelines,”
             or current FHWA standards. No rock or boulder walls above a retained fill
             height of 4’-0” are allowed.

          5. Concrete cantilever walls shall be designed in accordance with
             specifications provided in the currently adopted International Building Code
             (IBC), American Concrete Institute 318 (ACI 318) and the American Society of
             Civil Engineers (ASCE 7) standards and specifications.

          6. CMU block walls shall be designed in accordance with specifications
             provided in the currently adopted International Building Code (IBC),
           American Concrete Institute 530 (ACI 530), TMS 402/602 and the American
           Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE 7) standards and specifications.

        7. All walls shall provide a drainage system or method to remove the
           hydrostatic pressure from behind the wall, unless otherwise designed for it.
           The drainage system shall be shown on the plans and the drainage from the
           wall shall be accounted for in the drainage plan submitted for a building
           permit. The drainage design may include the following:

              a. free draining gravel layer wrapped in filter fabric located behind the
                   retaining wall with a drainpipe draining to daylighting or to a proper
                   outlet or weep holes placed through the base of the wall,
              b. a synthetic drainage composite may be used behind MSE walls if
                   warranted and specified by the design engineer,
              c. a synthetic drainage composite is not allowed behind rock walls,
              d. a synthetic drainage composite may be used behind the stem of
                   concrete and masonry cantilever walls,
              e. if the engineering can substantiate proper filtering between the
                   retained soils and the drain rock, then the filter fabric may be omitted,
               f. if a retaining wall is designed to withstand hydrostatic pressures or the
                   retained soils or backfill is free draining as substantiated through
                   appropriate testing and the geotechnical report, then additional
                   drainage material and design may be omitted.
      8. If a fall hazard equal to or greater than six feet is caused by a retaining wall, a
          fence 3’-6” minimum tall shall be positioned at the top of the wall to prevent
          the hazard in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.070.C of this
          Code.
      9. The design engineer’s acknowledgement that the site is suitable for the
          retaining wall.
B. The design engineer shall provide a final letter of certification to the Lehi City
   Building Official after completion of the construction stating the walls were
   constructed according to the project drawings.
