                                    ENTERPRISE CONCEPT PLAN
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant         Enterprise
                          Meeting Date          July 31, 2025
              Requested Action/Purpose          Approval of a concept plan
                         Decision Type          Administrative
                               Location         1552 North Boston Street
                           Project Area         1 acre
                        Existing Zoning         Light Industrial (LI)
      General Plan Land Use Designation         Light Industrial (LI)
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use              North LI               Caliber Collision
                                                   South R-2              Single-family homes
                                                    East R-3              Gardner Point townhomes
                                                    West LI               Samara Company Landscaping
                         Date of DRC Review     July 2, 2025
                           Assigned Planner     Katie Bussell

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                        Planning Commission     Public hearing, review, and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.

Section 37.010. Nonresidential Design Standards.
    a. Site design standards:

        i. Building orientation:

              1.    Buildings shall be oriented toward the adjacent public or private street with no off-street parking or
                    drive aisles located between the building and street sidewalk (see Figure 131).

      ii. Setbacks:

                   1.    Buildings shall provide a sufficient setback to allow for a public utility easement to be
                         placed along the frontage of the property. Public utility easements may be placed along
                         the back side of a proposed building as approved by the Reviewing Departments. No
                         permanent structures shall be allowed within the public utility easement. Additional
                         setbacks from public utility easements may be required by the Reviewing Departments
                         to ensure proper clearances are met from building footings to utility lines.

                   2.    A maximum setback of 50 feet shall be allowed from a building to a city street for all
                         uses unless otherwise allowed in Section 37.010.B.5.c.2 and Section 37.010.B.5.c.3.




Enterprise Concept Plan
2.    Exceptions:

      Exceptions to Section 37.010 may be approved by the Planning Commission provided the following:

           a. The applicant shall provide evidence that the exception to the design standards improves the design quality,
              walkability/bike-ability, or ability conduct the proposed use on the subject property, as determined by the
              Planning Commission.

           b. The applicant shall provide justification on how the proposed project fits in with the purpose and vision of
              the design standards district in which it is located.



     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review of the Enterprise concept plan. The building will be located at the corner of Boston
Street and 1500 North at 1552 North Boston Street. The property recently went through a boundary line adjustment
with the Caliber Collision to the north to increase the square-footage of the parcel to an acre. The proposed use of
automobile sales/rental is permitted in the Light Industrial zone on sites 1 acre or larger in size.

The applicant is requesting an exception to two regulations in the Development Code. The first is to allow for parking
between the building and the street. Currently, the Chapter 37 General Nonresidential Design Standards require that
there is no parking between the building and the street. The applicant would like to have parking between the building
and the street to allow for the overall use of the site, which would include a carwash for Enterprise vehicles. The
second exception is to increase the maximum setback beyond the 50-feet. This is to also allow parking between the
building and the street. The two exceptions are for the same purpose – to allow for reasonable use of the overall
function of the site.

The DRC had 20 redline comments, including:
1. If the building is taller than 20', an additional 1' of buffer will be required for each foot of height over 20'.
2. Setback from the building and the street cannot be more than 50-feet. An exception will be required.
3. This building orientation will require an exception due to parking between the building and the street. Justification
    is needed to show how the standard is not feasible to meet.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a concept plan this is an administrative item. If it meets the Code it must be approved. The applicant asks for an
exception to allow parking between the building and the street. The applicant is also asking to increase the setback
from the building and the street beyond the maximum 50-feet. The Planning Commission will have to determine if
there is justification in granting these exceptions.

This is a public hearing item.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve, approve with modifications, or deny the proposed concept plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
      2. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
      3. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Enterprise Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 2, 2025

                                                     Enterprise Concept Plan
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Enterprise Mobility- requests review of the Enterprise Concept Plan located at 1552 North Boston Street, requesting an
exception to have parking between the building and the street.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Scott Inman
Date of Plans Reviewed: 06/19/25
Time Start: 2:55 PM
Time End: 3:15 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Adjust entrance on 1500 N. to provide required clearance to existing switch G2-115.
2. Consider adjusting the entrance location on Boston Street. (see redline). Developer responsible for all equipment
    relocation costs.
3. For Site Plan submittal, indicate power service location and size. Also provide a completed power load estimate
    worksheet. https://www.lehi-ut.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/LoadEstimatorSheet.pdf
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
4. existing 4'' lateral into lot.
5. 6'' culinary main and 8'' PI main no services was stubbed into lot.
James – Parks:
6. Please provide landscape and irrigation plans meeting Lehi City code and standards
7. I would argue that a carwash and vacuums (which is what this building is to clean their cars) is not more desirable than
    parking next to a townhome.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
8. A soil report will be required if this moves past concept.
Shelbey – Public Works:
A. Prior to precon:
         a. SSOMP/LTSWMP will be required prior to precon
         b. SWPPP will be required prior to precon
Gary E. – Engineering:
9. This site will be required to retain on site all storm water
10. 12' access easement must be maintained if within project limits
Luke – Traffic:
11. If this concept moves past concept a Trip Generation Study will be required due to a lack of national data on vehicle
    rentals. A traffic engineer will need to collect data from 2-3 other vehicle rental locations and determine the anticipate
    trips expected to and from this project site. A full traffic impact study may be required if more than 25 peak hour trips
    are anticipated.
12. Remove access from 1500 N as it does not meet access management standards. Can move to Boston Street and have
    two. Must be 50-foot spacing centerline to centerline on Boston Street.
Kim – Planning:
13. Provide vicinity map at site plan.
14. Setback from the building and the street cannot be more than 50-feet. An exception will be required.
15. This building orientation will require an exception due to parking between the building and the street. Justification is
    needed to show how the standard is not feasible to meet.
16. Provide architectural elevations at site plan.
17. Bike parking will be required.
18. if the building is taller than 20', an additional 1' of buffer will be required for each foot of height over 20'.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 2, 2025

19. Show the existing neighborhood connection trail that runs along the north side of the site.
20. A sidewalk will be required from the building to the street sidewalk.
21. Show access as a flared or radius approach per Lehi standard drawings.
22. Buffering requirements in Section 12.080 will be required to be met with the adjacent residential area.




DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).

THIS ITEM IS/IS NOT REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.
(An exception requires stamped addressed envelopes for public noticing if the project proceeds to Planning Commission)

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 31ST (PENDING ENVELOPES).




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
