                        COLLEDGE FARMS PLAT F ZONE CHANGE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        Symphony Homes
                                  Meeting Date         July 31, 2025
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                       change
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          2850 West 1500 North
                                      Acreage          5.18 acres
                              Existing Zoning          TH-5
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          Very Low-Density Residential Agriculture (VLDRA)
                 Proposed Zoning Designation           R-1-22
                            Existing Land Use          Agriculture
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North R-1-22             Single-family residential
                                                        South R-1-22            Single-family residential
                                                         East R-1-22            Future church
                                                         West R-1-22            Single-family residential
                              Date of DRC Review       May 7, 2025
                                Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should
consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


 APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES




Colledge Farms Plat F Zone Change
  PROPERTY HISTORY

October 22, 2024           Lehi City Council denied a proposed general plan amendment from VLDRA to LDR.

June 14, 2007              Property was annexed into Lehi City as part of the George Barber Second Annexation
                           Agreement.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is seeking review and recommendation of a proposed zone change from TH-5 to R-1-22. This would
take the property out of its transitional holding zone and put it into residential zoning. The proposed zoning designa-
tion matches the surrounding zoning, and it meets the General Plan Designation of Very Low-Density Residential
Agriculture.

The applicant has expressed that this zone change is to facilitate the construction of a subdivision. A concept plan
was submitted concurrently with this application and will be reviewed by City staff and legislative bodies.

The DRC reviewed the proposed zone change and had one comment pertaining to water dedication. Please consider



Colledge Farms Plat F Zone Change
this in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative items. The Planning Commission will provide their recommendation to the City Council,
and the Council will make the ultimate decision if the zone change can be approved or not. If a zone change aligns
with the General Plan Designation, it would take significant concern of potential harm to residents to not approve the
zone change.

This is a public hearing item. The public may comment on this item. The Planning Commission is only considering
the zoning of this parcel, and discussion of any concept plans must be reserved for the concept plan itself.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Colledge Farms Plat F Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          May 7, 2025

                                              Colledge Farms Plat F Zone Change
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Symphony Homes- requests review of the Colledge Farms Plat F Zone Change, from TH-5 to R-1-22, located at
approximately 2850 West 1500 North.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Russell Wilson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 4/29/25
Time Start: 11:20am
Time End: 11:21am

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Jake/Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S.– Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey– Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Water dedication will be required as a condition prior to recording the zone change ordinance. The rate of dedication
    is .79 acre feet per acre of culinary water and 2.90 acre feet per acre of irrigation water.


Consistency with the elements of the Lehi City General Plan.

This area has a proposed [Residential designation] on the General Plan that has been filed concurrently.

Effect of the proposed amendment on the existing goals, objectives, and policies of the Lehi City General Plan.

From the Lehi City General Plan Land Use Element the following goals and policies related to development should be
considered:

    1.   Maximize opportunities to create an overall pattern of planned and orderly development with a system of land uses,
         adequately and efficiently served by a balanced and energy-efficient system of transportation, and community
         services that are sensitive to the natural physical qualities of the area.

    2.   Provide diverse economic and employment opportunities and encourage multiple scales of commercial development
         to serve the needs of the region, the community, and individual neighborhoods.

    3. Promote variety in commercial spaces, densities, and locations.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION WITH THE CONCEPT PLAN




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
April 29, 2025

Lehi City Planning & Zoning
C/O Ms. Brittney Harris
153 North 100 East
Lehi, Utah 84043

RE: Request for Zoning Map Amendment for 5.20 Acres Located at Approximately 2850 West 1500
North (Utah County Parcel No. 58-026-0064)

Dear Ms. Harris:

Please see the enclosed application to amend Lehi City’s zoning map from TH-5 to R-1-22 for
approximately 5.20 acres located at 2850 West and 1500 North, Lehi. The following information may
also be helpful to the city in reviewing our application:

Reason and justification for the proposed amendment
The subject property is located adjacent to the Colledge Farms subdivision built by our homebuilding
company, Symphony Homes. We intend to incorporate this property as an additional phase of Colledge
Farms with similar lot sizes and other characteristics of the neighborhood.

Consistency of the proposed amendment with the goals and policies of the General Plan
The proposed amendment is consistent with the General Plan which designates this area as “Very Low
Density Residential Agriculture.”

Compatibility of the proposed land use with the existing land uses of nearby and adjoining properties
The proposed amendment would change the zoning of the subject property from TH-5 to R-1-22 which
is the same underlying zone as several surrounding subdivisions.

The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area
The proposed amendment would allow for similar lot sizes and similar homes and other characteristics
as currently exist in the Colledge Farms neighborhood.

The gain to the public health, safety, welfare, and overall community benefit
The proposed amendment would provide greater connectivity for Lehi City residents and provide more
housing in an existing desirable neighborhood.

We appreciate your consideration of our application and look forward to continuing to work with you to
create a beautiful community that Lehi City and its residents can be proud of for many generations to
come. Feel free to reach out to me at (801) 691-4843 or rwilson@symphonydev.com with any questions
or concerns.

Sincerely,


Russell Wilson
Vice President, Symphony Development
