                            LEHI TERRACE PLAT AMENDMENT
                                PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant       Symphony Homes
                         Meeting Date        July 31, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose        Approval of a proposed plat amendment
                              Location       Approximately 1200 West and 2980 North
     Existing General Plan Designation       Medium Density Residential (MDR)
                       Existing Zoning       R-2
                    Existing Land Use        Single Family Lots
                 Number of Lots/Units        37 Lots
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North NC& RA-1              Single Family Homes
                                                South A-1                   Single Family Homes
                                                 East TH-5                  Single Family Homes
                                                 West R-3                   Single Family Homes
                    Date of DRC Review       July 9, 2025
                     Assigned P]>lanner      Brittney Harris

                                            REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.340. Vacating, Altering, or Amending a Recorded Subdivision Plat. (Amended 01/23/24)

A. The Planning Commission, following review by the Reviewing Departments, shall be the Land Use Authority
for approving any proposed vacation, alteration, or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision
plat, or any road or lot contained in a subdivision plat. The Planning Commission shall follow all requirements and
procedures identified in Utah State Code Section 10-9a-608.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

February 1, 2016           Property came into the City as part of the Hans Follie Addition

August 10, 2021            City Council approved the Lehi Terrace General Plan Amendment from NC and VLDR
                           to MDR and the Lehi Terrace Concept Plan

November 16, 2021          City Council Approved the Lehi Terrace Zone Change from TH-5 to R-2 with a
                           Development Agreement for the future development of the site

April 12, 2022             City Council Approved the Lehi Terrace Final Subdivision.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of an amendment to the Lehi Terrace Subdivision. This was originally approved as
a (Planned Unit Development) PUD which allowed for flexibility in lot size and a maximizing of density because
they included private open space and met the other requirements for a PUD.

The applicant proposes amending the recorded plat to remove two units bringing the total from 39 to 37 lots. This
will allow the rest of the units to increase in size, and will result in an overall reduction of density. The Code has
maximum number of units but not a minimum or anything else that would prohibit the applicant from removing
these lots.

The Reviewing Departments had five redline comments including:
1. How do you plan to keep current customers in power while you excavate and revise the configuration to the
    new equipment placement?
        a. Provide a construction plan/schedule for power work to the power dept. for approval.
        b. Provide a generator for existing customers during the outage time.

Please include all DRC Comments in your motion.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed plat amendment. Any motion should include
findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed plat amendment decreases overall density and still complies with the requirements of a PUD.
    2.   The proposed subdivision meets/does not meet the requirements of the Development Code.
    3.   Other findings based up
    4.   on information presented at the public meeting.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 9, 2025

                                                 Lehi Terrace Plat Amendment
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Symphony Development- requests review of the Lehi Terrace Plat Amendment removing two lots.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Russell Wilson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 07/01/25
Time Start: 1:39pm
Time End: 1:42pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. How do you plan to keep current customers in power while you excavate and revise the configuration to the new
    equipment placement?
        a. Provide a construction plan/schedule for power work to the power dept. for approval.
        b. Provide a generator for existing customers during the outage time.
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
2. Existing sewer and water services to be abandon at main. add note to plans.
3. Why are moving these water services on lot 111A
4. 2' tee patch add note to plan set.
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
5. Fix Plat amending Lots 110-121 not Lots 110-122
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 31st




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
