                  EMBER HOTEL SITE PLAN WITH EXCEPTIONS
                               PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                            Applicant       Steven Kelly
                         Meeting Date       July 31, 2025
            Requested Action/Purpose        Approval of a proposed site plan with exceptions
                        Decision Type       Administrative
                             Location       26 East Main Street
                          Project Area      0.27 acres
                      Existing Zoning       MU
    General Plan Land Use Designation       MU
                    Existing Land Use       Undeveloped
       Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North MU                     Home office/The Dance Academy
                                               South MU                     Single family residential
                                                East MU                     Vacant Commercial Space
                                                West MU                     Single family residential
                   Date of DRC Review       July 2, 2025
                     Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                          REQUIRED ACTION
                  Planning Commission       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.260. Site Plan Approval Process.
Permitted Uses.
       1. Site plans associated with a permitted use require review an approval by the Reviewing Departments. Site
    Plans requesting exceptions to Code requirements require approval by the Planning Commission for the requested
    exceptions. The Reviewing Departments may require that the approval of a site plan be forwarded to the Planning
    Commission if they determine the standards in the Development Code are unclear, or that the project is likely to
    have extenuating or unforeseen impacts beyond what would normally be expected on issues such as traffic,
    lighting, or compatibility of uses.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

October 10, 2024- The Ember Hotel Concept was approved by the Planning Commission.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and approval of the Ember Hotel site plan, requesting exceptions to the Development
Code for the building elevations. This report will outline the requested exceptions and the DRC comments. The
Planning Commission previously approved a concept plan for this boutique hotel and there have been minimal
changes since concept approval.

Exceptions

There are two exceptions to the Development Code being requested for the building elevations. The Historic
Design District requires the following:




Ember Hotel Site Plan
    •    Buildings shall be constructed with brick as the primary exterior building material. Products simulating brick
         shall not be used as an exterior material. Concrete, stone, fiber cement, or wood may be used as secondary
         materials and shall only be used for wainscots, columns, accents, cornices, or other architectural features. An
         exception will be requested for this item for the east side elevation.

    •    A minimum of 50 percent of the facade area on the first floor facing Main Street and State Street shall consist
         of glass. An exception will be requested for this as well.

On the first exception relating to the brick material, the applicant has made a significant effort to have brick as the
overall primary exterior building material, but they need an exception for the east side of the building where it is
adjacent to the former Hutch’s building. They currently show no brick on the east side, but this façade will largely
be covered up by the adjacent building. There was concern about the difficulty and feasibility of installing the brick
on that side so the applicant proposes CMU block and lap siding with a historic style mural where the wall is
visible.

On the second exception relating to the glass percentage, the applicant has noted that they are requesting an
exception for the window percentage along the front of the building because of the fire requirements adjacent to the
electrical boxes on the northeast side of the site. Also, the exception is requested because half of the windows are in
the bathroom and shower space, which is not conducive to windows and privacy. The current elevations show the
total glass at Main Street level at approximately 36 percent compared to the 50 percent requirement.

Staff feels comfortable with both exceptions as the applicant has made efforts where possible to get close to
meeting the Code.

DRC Comments
There were 26 comments from the DRC, however many of these were informational to the applicant as part of the
site plan review process. The decision was made to allow the site plan to move forward to Planning Commission to
ask for the specific exceptions as the rest of the DRC comments can be resolved through a subsequent DRC review
and plan checkoffs.

Please consider all DRC comments in the motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Site Plans are administrative items that must be approved if they meet the Development Code requirements. This
site plan requests exceptions. The Planning Commission should determine if the intent of the Code is met and these
exceptions should be granted. This is not a public hearing item.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed site plan. Any motion should include
findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or
         improvements in the vicinity and will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, general welfare or
         convenience.
    2.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and
         policies of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
    3.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate
         size and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner
         that it will not be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
    4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public meeting.




Ember Hotel Site Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 2, 2025

                                                      Ember Hotel Site Plan
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Steven Kelly- requests review of the Ember Hotel site plan located at 26 East Main Street.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Steve Kelly, Gilbert, Ken, Kevin, Steven, Tony
Date of Plans Reviewed: 07/02/25
Time Start: 1:00 pm
Time End: 1:24 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Transformer location does not meet NFPA clearance requirements. Add note to the area of the building, and the fire
    rating construction required to meet NFPA requirements.
2. No structures are allowed in the PUE space.
3. Show and label metering location. (No CT required for 200 A. 208/120 V.)
4. Submit completed power load estimate worksheet.
    https://www.lehi-ut.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/LoadEstimatorSheet.pdf
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire:
5. Insert Fire Riser Detail.
    Insert Fire Department Detail.
6. Toilet in the Fire riser room? Move label to correct location.
7. Show location of the fire department connection (FDC) on the street side of the building.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
8. label existing 10'' pi main and show valve on pi main.
9. 4'' tee with valve up sized to 6'' after valve. show valve on plan set.
10. label size of fire line.
11. ex PI needs to be upgraded to meter connection. add note to plans. show location of can on plan set.
12. show valve Fl to tee on fire line.
13. 2'' needs to be abandon at tee add note to plan set.
14. 6'' C-900 label on plan set.
15. install 6'' tee with 6'' valve fl to tee. install 2'' valve on tee. connect existing 2'' with 2'' CTS blue poly.
16. Provide Lehi City detail sheets.
James – Parks:
17. Please Update legend and plans to reflect #'s and plants
18. Please Update legend and plans to reflect plants drawn
19. Ch 37-11.d.ii.
    Landscaped areas shall be provided along the rear sides of buildings facing the parking areas with a minimum depth of
    four feet...
20. Please Locate this on L 1.0 with landscaping legend and plans
    Please include details of percentage of Urban Open Space and where it is located.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
21. Add the parking table to the site plan, include the ADA and ADA/VAN information to the parking table.
22. Add a table to the site plan with the utility connection sizes.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
23. Please provide the storm drain calculations and the geotechnical report showing the percolation rate and groundwater
    elevation.
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 2, 2025

24. Provide details of racks and dimensions of the bike parking pad.
25. Low level security lighting for safety and security shall be provided for all areas of the site that are not covered by a
    building, including all walkways and trash storage areas.
26. On the cross access on the south side of the project, it only needs to be 20' wide. Narrow it up and expand the landscaping
    area.

General                                                                                                                Comments:
1. None of the rooms in the hotel or motel shall be used as a dwelling unit or primary residence by its occupant.
2. The length of time for guest occupancy of a hotel or motel unit may be limited as part of the Conditional Use approval. In
no case shall the length of stay exceed 90 consecutive days unless otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator.
3. The Lehi City Police Department may provide recommendations regarding the security of the site. Such recommendations
may include, but are not limited to, on site security personnel, security lighting, security fencing, secured parking, information
signs, and building design and landscaping to reduce places of potential concealment.
4. The Development Code typically does not allow new accesses to Main Street, however, an exception has already been
granted. In the future, this access may need to be removed when other access is provided from neighboring properties.
5. Buildings shall be constructed with brick as the primary exterior building material. Products simulating brick shall not be
used as an exterior material. Concrete, stone, fiber cement, or wood may be used as secondary materials and shall only be
used for wainscots, columns, accents, cornices, or other architectural features. An exception will be requested for this item
for the east side elevation.
6. A minimum of 50 percent of the facade area on the first floor facing Main Street and State Street shall consist of glass. An
exception will be requested for this as well.


PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)


ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
   must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
   process.
5. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
6. Provide approval letter from the State (UDEQ) for Class V UIC Injection Well.
7. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
   monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
   Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
   Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
8. Provide easements for future cross access when neighbors redevelop.

STAFF
9. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
10. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
11. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 2, 2025

1.   On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
     on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
     the building permit.
2.   Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3.   Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4.   Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
     off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
     made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
     sheet.
5.   Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
     and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6.   All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7.   All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
     being granted.
8.   The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
     by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9.   Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
     be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
     provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
     loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
     construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.

THIS ITEM IS REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION FOR THE GLASS PERCENTAGE ON MAIN STREET AND THE
EAST SIDE ELEVATIONS WITH THE USE OF BLOCK AND HARDIE BOARD IN PLACE OF THE
REQUIREMENT FOR BRICK AS THE PRIMARY MATERIAL.

THIS ITEM WILL RETURN TO DRC, BUT THE ELEVATIONS CAN MOVE FORWARD TO PLANNING
COMMISSION ON JULY 31, 2025 FOR THE EXCEPTION REQUEST.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                3 of 3
