        INVERNESS PLAT D PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION REVISIONS
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant      DR Horton
                           Meeting Date       July 31, 2025
                Requested Action/Purpose      Review and recommendation for proposed revisions to a preliminary
                                              subdivision
                           Decision Type      Administrative
                                Location      Approximately Horton Way and Edinburgh Avenue
       Existing General Plan Designation      Low Density Residential (LDR), Medium Density Residential (MDR),
                                              High Density Residential (HDR), Public Facility (PF), Open Space
                                              (OS)
                        Existing Zoning       Planned Community (PC)
                     Existing Land Use        Undeveloped Hillside
                   Number of Lots/Units       278 Single Family Homes and 126 Townhomes
          Adjacent Zoning and Land Use           North Draper               Single Family Homes/ Open Space
                                                 South PC                   TI Open Space Buffer
                                                  East Draper               Undeveloped Hillside
                                                  West TH-5                 Undeveloped Hillside
                      Date of DRC Review      July 9, 2025
                        Assigned Planner      Brittney

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission       Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                            City Council      Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code, in-
cluding review by the Reviewing Departments, and review and approval by the Planning Commission following a
public hearing.

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has
been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

December 11, 2012          City Council approved the Micron Area Plan

April 8, 2022              This property came into Lehi as the Micron East Annexation

August 23, 2022            City Council approved the Skye Area Plan amending the Micron Area Plan

September 19, 2023         City Council approved the Skye Area Plan Second Amendment




Inverness Plat D Preliminary Subdivision Revisions
May 13, 2025               City Council approved Inverness Preliminary Plat D


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of the proposed revision to Inverness Preliminary Plat D to add
12 lots to this phase. These 12 lots were removed from the Inverness Plat 6, where grade made construction of the
units prohibitively hard. Moving these units still conforms with all of the requirements of the Area Plan. The Area
Plan has flexibility in the number of units in the different areas specifically to help in cases like this.

The revision does not increase the overall land area of Inverness Preliminary Plat D but resulted in some smaller
single-family lots. This will add more variability in lot size allowing a greater mixture in this area of Inverness.

The Reviewing Departments reviewed this revision and had five comments from the water department. Please include
all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Subdivisions are an administrative item. This means if they meet the Code requirements the Planning Commission
and City Council must approve them.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed revisions to the preliminary
subdivision. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed revised preliminary subdivision meets the requirements of the Skye Area Plan.
    2.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
         gards to subdivision approvals.
    3.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Inverness Plat D Preliminary Subdivision Revisions
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 9, 2025

                                            Inverness Preliminary Plat D Revisions
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

DR Horton- requests review of revisions to Inverness Preliminary Plat D adding 12 lots from Inverness Plat 6.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Ben Tuckett, Landon Larsen, and Scott Bishop
Date of Plans Reviewed: 07/01/25
Time Start: 1:30pm
Time End: 1:33pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
1. Storage capacity in Upper Inverness drinking water tank and PI Reservoir must be increased to accommodate
    additional lots. Coordinate any changes in storage volume with Ensign Engineering.
2. High pressure transmission lines from booster station to a point above the upper PRV vault must be stand alone
    transmission lines with no service connections. High pressure line as you have it shown here will allow water to be
    pumped backwards through the PRV vault and into the distribution system.
3. Are these PVC lines rated for the pressures we will have with the installation of the Upper Inverness Tank and
    Reservoir ?
4. Water and PI lines on Kelvingrove drive loop around the PRV vault on lot 185/186 creating a connection both above
    and below the PRV vault.
5. Provide Lehi city zone breaks sheet for upper inverness.
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON JULY 31st




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                                                                                 July 1, 2025

            Inverness Preliminary D Revision Application for approved plans


This application is addressing the changes we are proposing for Preliminary Plan D
Revision 1.
  • 12 Lots have been added to this plan. The increase in the number of units was
    prompted by the revision made to Plat 6. Specifically, 12 units were removed from
    Plat 6 due to constructability concerns. To maintain the overall unit count, those 12
    units have now been incorporated into Preliminary Plat D.
