                 SHELLEY ATKINSON PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant      Steve Atkinson
                                Meeting Date       August 14, 2025
                     Requested Action/Purpose      Public hearing, review, and approval on the preliminary subdivi-
                                                   sion
                                Decision Type      Administrative
                                     Location      498 North 900 East
            Existing General Plan Designation      Low Density Residential (LDR)
                              Existing Zoning      R-1-Flex
                           Existing Land Use       Single Family Home
                        Number of Lots/Units       3 Lots
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use                 North R-1-8      Single Family Homes
                                                            South RA-1       Single Family Homes
                                                             East RA-1       Single Family Homes
                                                             West RA-1       Single Family Homes
                           Date of DRC Review      July 23, 2025
                             Assigned Planner      Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                         Planning Commission       Public Hearing and Approval
                                 City Council      No Action Required


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code, in-
cluding review by the Reviewing Departments, and review and approval by the Planning Commission following a
public hearing.

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has
been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.



  PROPERTY HISTORY

1872              Property was incorporated into Lehi City

April 9, 2024     City Council approved a zone change from RA-1 to R-1-Flex


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and approval of a three-lot preliminary subdivision located at 498 North 900 East in
the R-1-Flex zone. The proposed subdivision meets most of the requirements of the R-1-Flex zone except for Lot 1.



Shelley Atkinson Preliminary Subdivision
Lot 1 includes the existing home that does not meet the current front yard setback. It was constructed before the
current Code requirements, so it is allowed as a legal nonconforming structure. The home’s location also en-
croaches on to where the Public Utility Easement (PUE) would be located, again this is okay because it is an exist-
ing home that is legal nonconforming. The Reviewing Departments included comments for notes on the plat that if
the home on Lot 1 is torn down, the new home will have to meet current setbacks. The Reviewing Departments had
19 redline comments which relate to the final subdivision.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Subdivisions are administrative items. If they meet the Code requirements they must be approved.

The public may speak to this item but they should recognize that this item will not be denied. The public may want to
bring up concerns or items the Planning Commission may not be aware of.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or approve with code required modifications the proposed prelim-
inary subdivision. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:


    1.   The proposed subdivision includes a legal nonconforming home and all the other aspects of the proposed
         subdivision meet the requirements of the R-1-Flex zone.
    2.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
         gards to subdivision approvals.
    3.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Shelley Atkinson Preliminary Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 23, 2025

                                     Shelley Atkinson Preliminary and Final Subdivision
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Steve Atkinson – requests preliminary subdivision review of the Shelley Atkinson Subdivision, a 3-lot residential
development located at 498 North 900 East.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Steve and Shelley Atkinson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 7/8/25
Time Start: 4:21pm
Time End: 4:32pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Jake – Power:
1. Provide, show and label a 15’ PUE at road frontages. (Required where there is no park strip for water meters and
    hydrants.) Label existing home as legal non-conforming use.
2. At final design, include power details. (Trenching, transformer, riser pole and dome placement).
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
3. All road cuts will require 2' tee patch add note to plans.
4. All trench backfill requires a AASHTO designation A-1-a add note to plan set.
5. Provide Lehi City detail sheets for all utilities.
Shaleah – Parks:
6. Install a no climb fence, since the area is zoned RA-1. Or provide a letter from neighbors that they are okay with
    existing fencing.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
7. Add a note to the plat that a soil report will be required at the time of a building permit.
Shelbey – Public Works:
Gary E. – Engineering:
8. SD pipe and detention pond would not be needed. Each lot should be graded to retain on site their own storm water.
9. Water services should be installed 5' off of property line and the sewer line on the centerline of the property. See Lehi
    Detail WT-10.
10. Show location of existing house and buildings and state if they are to remain or be removed on the plat
11. Add note on plat:
    Each lot is to retain their own stormwater on site
12. Label PUE as a PU&RCE
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
13. Include in tabulation the units per acre on the plat
14. Change to 476 or 474 to avoid confusion with Lot 1
15. Indicate that the surrounding parcels are zoned RA-1
16. Need spot on plat for county recorder
17. Need spot for City Engineer Stamp
18. This is a 3 lot subdivision so it need signature line for mayor and Planning Commission chair, not a signature line for
    the Chief Building Official
19. Add right to farm note on the plat


PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)

ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 23, 2025


THE CHECK-OFF PROCESS WILL TAKE AT LEAST A MONTH FROM THE TIME PLANS AND COST
ESTIMATE ARE RECEIVED. IT IS THE APPLICANTS RESPONSIBIILTY TO ALLOCATE AN
APPROPRIATE AMOUNT OF TIME.

APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
    landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
    Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
    improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
    supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
    necessary supplies for the development.
5. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
6. Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).
7. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
8. Address any comments or conditions from Planning Commission approval of the preliminary
9. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled
10. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting


PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:

RECORDING OF A PLAT WILL TAKE AT LEAST TWO WEEKS FROM THE TIME THE MYLAR IS
RECEIVED IN PERSON.

1.  Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2.  Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3.  Submit a title report to the planner over the project for review.
4.  Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
    property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.
5. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
6. Provide a recorded copy of required boundary line agreement(s).
7. Provide a signed original copy of the CC&Rs to record with the plat (to be reviewed by City Attorney).
8. Warranty deed/title insurance (open space, detention, City park property, City trails, some road dedication). Title
    insurance policies on each to be obtained through Marnae at Affiliated First Title 801-610-1670
9. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.
STAFF
10. Send a digital copy of the plat to the County for review prior to accepting printed mylar.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 23, 2025

4.   Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
     off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
     made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
     sheet.
5.   Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
     and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6.   All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7.   All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
     being granted.
8.   The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
     by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9.   Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
     be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
     provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
     loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
     construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THE PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON AUGUST 14th
RESUBMIT THE FINAL SUBDIVISION TO DRC

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                3 of 3
