                           AUBURN SPRINGS GRADING PERMIT
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                Applicant      Edge Homes
                             Meeting Date      August 14, 2025
                 Requested Action/Purpose      Public hearing and recommendation of a proposed grading permit
                                 Location      Approximately 2500 West 400 South
                          Existing Zoning      R-1-15
                 General Plan Designation      Low Density Residential (LDR)
                        Existing Land Use      Farmland
                     Date of DRC Review        July 31, 2025
                         Assigned Planner      Katie Bussell

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission       Public hearing and recommendation
                             City Council      Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 12-B.050 Grading Permit Issuance.

        (a) When considering the approval of the grading permit the Public Works Director, Reviewing Departments,
        and (when applicable), Planning Commission and City Council, will verify that all of the following criteria are
        met (in addition to other applicable requirements of this code and other city codes):
            (i) Approval of the proposal will not pose a threat to or be detrimental to the public health, safety, and
                  welfare, nor be materially detrimental to fish and wildlife habitat and/or water resources as determined
                  by an expert consultant.
            (ii) The proposal is not in a sensitive lands area, as defined by Sections 12.060 (J) (K) of the Lehi City
                  Development Code.
            (iii) All subdivisions plats and/or site plans must have at least a preliminary approval prior to issuance of a
                  grading permit
EPORT ANALYSIS
 PROPERTY HISTORY

June 11, 2025                      DRC approved the Auburn Springs Phase 1 final subdivision plat.

April 24, 2025                     Lehi Planning Commission approved the Auburn Springs Preliminary
                                   Subdivision.

September 18, 2024                 The property was recorded as part of the Walt Plumb Development Agreement,
                                   which permitted a maximum of 88 units.

April 13, 2023                     The Lehi Planning Commission recommended approval of the Main Street
                                   Meadows Zone Change.

November 17, 2022                  The Lehi Planning Commission recommended denial a General Plan
                                   Amendment request to change the general plan from Very Low-Density
                                   Residential Agriculture (VLDRA) to Low-Density Residential (LDR).




Auburn Springs Grading Permit
     REPORT ANALYSIS

Edge Homes is requesting review and recommendation of the Auburn Springs Grading Permit located on 34-
acres at approximately 2500 West 400 South. The proposed grading covers the entirety of the Auburn
Springs subdivision. The changes are to raise the site to make gravity sewer and storm drain feasible. The
proposed changes will help provide buffering from ground water.

The applicant provided a narrative explaining that there will be approximately 170,000 cubic yards of
material to be imported. There will be 25-30 truck loads delivered daily, and grading will take place over a
span of approximately 6 months. There are two proposed haul routes; one will be through 700 South, and the
other will be through 2500 West.

They state there will be a water truck on site for dust control and will follow all Storm Water Pollution
Prevention Plan requirements.

There were 2 redline comments from the DRC, including:
1. Provide the following additional information on drawings or in a narrative:
        a. Estimated number of daily trips
        b. Estimated start and completion date
        c. Dust control plans
        d. Traffic control plan
        e. Main and secondary haul routes
        f. Hours and days of operation

The applicant provided an updated narrative which was included in this submittal.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Grading permits over 10 acres require Planning Commission and City Council approval. The Planning Commission and
City Council help ensure that the applicant is meeting the requirements of the Code and not excessively impacting the
natural environment of the City as outlined in Chapters 12A and 12B of the Development Code.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed grading permit. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements in
      the vicinity.
2.    The proposed use will be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies of the Lehi
      City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
3.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Auburn Springs Grading Permit
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 30, 2025

                                                Auburn Springs Grading Permit
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Edge Homes- requests review of the Auburn Springs Grading Permit on approximately 34 acres located at 400 South
2500 West.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Brady Morris, Brandon Parr
Date of Plans Reviewed: 07/23/25
Time Start: 1:30 PM
Time End: 1:35 PM


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
A. General comment: ensure grading of the detention basin is acceptable for power easement use.
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks:
1. Max grad on the trail is 8.3%. Can this be feathered into the city property to keep this grade down?
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works:
A. SWPPP is already in place
Gary E. – Engineering:
2. Provide the following additional information on drawings or in a narrative:

   1. Estimated number of daily trips
   2. Estimated start and completion date
   3. Dust control plans
   4. Traffic control plan
   5. Main and secondary haul routes
   6. Hours and days of operation
Luke – Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning: No comments.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON AUGUST 14TH.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Auburn Springs
Grading Permit Narrative
Prepared by Spencer Llewelyn – Edge Homes
6/19/2025

        The Auburn Springs project is going to require imported fill to raise the site to make gravity
sewer and storm drain feasible. Raising certain locations on site will help raise proposed houses to
provide proper buffering from ground water. There are also proposed irrigation ditch piping that will
require a buffer of cover from the top of the pipe.
        This project will require approximately 170,000 Cubic Yards of material to be imported.
Which is approximately 5,000 truck loads. There will be approximately 25-30 truck loads delivered
daily. Grading will take place over a span of approximately 6 months. A water truck will be on site to
control dust.
        It is anticipated that no traffic control will be required. Access to the site will be as shown on
the map provided with the application. Hours of operation are anticipated to be Monday through Friday
8am - 6pm.
