                       HORLACHER 8-FOOT FENCE EXCEPTIONS
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant         Andreas and Carrie Horlacher
                          Meeting Date         August 14, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose          Approval of a proposed site plan
                         Decision Type         Administrative
                              Location         1222 West 3060 North
                           Project Area        0.19 acres
                       Existing Zoning         R-3
     General Plan Land Use Designation         High Density Residential (HDR)
                     Existing Land Use         Single Family Home
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use              North R-2                                    Single Family Homes
                                                  South R-3                                    Single Family Homes
                                                   East Neighborhood Commercial (NC)           Fabian House
                                                   West R-3                                    Single Family Homes
                     Date of DRC Review        July 30, 2025
                       Assigned Planner        Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 12.070. Compatibility Assessment.
A.     Fences, Walls and Hedges.

    1. Fences, walls, and hedges shall not exceed six feet in height, unless otherwise required by Code, approval by the
    Land Use Authority, or an exception is granted according to the following:
       (a) An exception will be granted if a fence higher than six feet and no more than eight feet in height is needed to
       enjoy a similar level of privacy a six-foot fence would normally provide but does not suffice due to differences
       in grade or if safety conditions require a taller fence. The exception will be reviewed by the reviewing
       departments and approved by the Zoning Administrator.
       (b) An exception can also be granted for other reasons, but the applicant bears the burden of proof that extra
       height is justified and shall be reviewed by the reviewing departments and may be approved by the Planning
       Commission following a public hearing.

    2 Any fence, wall, hedge, or other material serving as a fence shall not create a sight distance hazard to vehicular
    or pedestrian traffic as determined by the Zoning Administrator or City Engineer, regardless of whether the fence,
    wall, or hedge meets the requirements of this section.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

December 3, 1997          Property came into Lehi as part of the Fjellstrom-Homestead Development

July 9, 2002              City Council approved the Madison Place at Pheasant Pointe Subdivision


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval to install an eight-foot fence on their property at 1222 West 3060 North. The fence




Horlacher 8-Foot Fence Exception
location on the east side of their property will help block the noise from 1200 West and the light from Bellaview
Commercial.

The Code allows for exceptions to the six-foot limit on fence height. The applicant requests the additional height in
order to enjoy their backyard to a similar level other people are able to.

A quick internet search did say a fence can reduce noise a mild to moderate amount, and for roadway noise a
minimum of eight feet is recommended.

The applicant expressed their intent to put up a simulated rock fence.

The Reviewing Departments had seven comments. Please consider including all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Fences over six-feet in height require an exception. The public can speak to this item with any concerns or support
for the additional height. The Planning Commission may vote to approve the exception or not, but either motion
should be based on findings.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed exception to fence height. Any motion should
include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed 8-foot fence will allow the applicant added enjoyment of their backyard, similar to what a
         person not next to an arterial road may enjoy.
    2.   The applicant provided/ did not provide adequate justification for why they want or need the 8-foot fence.
    3.   The 8-foot fence will/will not have a negative impact on their neighborhood or the community.




Horlacher 8-Foot Fence Exception
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           July 30, 2025

                                                 Horlacher 8-foot Privacy Fence
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Andreas and Carrie Horlacher- request approval of the Horlacher 8-foot privacy fence located at 1222 West 3060 North.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Andreas Horlacher
Date of Plans Reviewed: 7/22/25
Time Start: 1:45pm
Time End: 1:57pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. PUE concern. Preserve full width of PUE; shed is on PUE space. Preserve in place all existing utilities.
2. Submit a section view of fence/ footings in relation to the walk and PUE width, and how access is preserved for
    existing utilities.
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
3. If approved, a building permit is required for fences over 7 feet.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
4. Please clarify where the taller fence is requested.
Luke – Traffic:
Recommendation: The applicant should consider having an official highway sound study done to confirm that an 8-foot
wall would actually reduce noise levels in their back yard. It would be unfortunate take on the expense to raise the wall
height only to find that a taller wall doesn't make a difference. Suggested internet search key words; "highway sound study
contractor Utah".
Kim – Planning:
5. (a) An exception will be granted if a fence higher than six feet and no more than eight feet in height is needed to enjoy
    a similar level of privacy a six-foot fence would normally provide but does not suffice due to differences in grade or if
    safety conditions require a taller fence. The exception will be reviewed by the reviewing departments and approved by
    the Zoning Administrator.
    (b) An exception can also be granted for other reasons, but the applicant bears the burden of proof that extra height is
    justified and shall be reviewed by the reviewing departments and may be approved by the Planning Commission
    following a public hearing.

     This does not seem to be a privacy issue but the enjoyment of property, this will require Planning Commission
     approval with a public hearing.
6.   On the recorded plat, it shows a 3' landscape and fence easement along 1200 W and the HOA is responsible for
     maintenance. The HOA would need to give approval for any changes to the fencing or landscaping.
7.   Need to provide additional information on the location of the proposed 8' fence. Will it be located in the same place as
     the current wrought iron fence? And provide information on what will happen with the existing stone columns.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON AUGUST 14th ONCE WE RECEIVE
ENVELOPES



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Project Name:              Permission for 8’ residential fence
Project Location:          1222 West 3060 North, Lehi
Proposed Use:              Per Lehi City Ordinance #36-2024, requesting exception for a residential 8’
privacy fence.

Narrative: We build our home in 2005 when 1200 West was a single-lane road ending at 3200 North.
Today, 1200 West is a busy thoroughfare connecting east and west Lehi, and I-15 to SR92, with traffic
volume continuing to increase with ongoing residential and commercial development.

As a result, road noise levels have become very high due to:
   • General vehicle traffic volume.
   • Dump trucks and other construction equipment.
   • Emergency vehicles from stations 82 and 83 and Lehi PD responding to calls with lights and sirens.
   • Loud exhaust noise when some vehicles rapidly accelerate as the light turns green at the intersection
       of 1200W/3060N.

The excessive road noise has created a condition that makes is nearly impossible to enjoy spending time in
our backyard with friends and family. During busy times of the day, it’s difficult to hear someone standing
just a few feet away.

Request: This is a requests for a variance of the residential 6’ fence limit to allow constructions of an 8’
privacy fence. The extra 2’ will offer better noise and reduction by more effectively blocking sound waves,
and improved shielding from the lights of the recently constructed Bellaview Place retail plaza east of our
home. (The Domino’s Pizza marquee shines directly into our backyard at approx. the 7’ level.)

This will also provide relief while inside of the home, where the rear entry door is approx 2’ about ground
level.
Fence Length and Height: 122 feet long, 8 feet tall.

Fence Type: https://www.simrockfence.com/simrock-fence-products/. Privacy fence, 6’x8’ sections, PVC
reinforced with galvanized steel inserts.
Sample:




Fence location: 1222 W 3060 N, along the property line that borders 1200 West. existing pillar\iron fence
will be removed.)
