         GRANT’S CORNER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT REVISION
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant         Fox Brothers Properties
                                  Meeting Date          August 28, 2025
                       Requested Action/Purpose         Review of a proposed Development Agreement revision
                                  Decision Type         Legislative
                                       Location         90 N 500 W

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission         Review and recommendation
                                    City Council        Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 29.020. Criteria for Entering into a Development Agreement.
The city may enter into a development agreement only if the development agreement:

    A. Has been duly adopted by the City Council in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

    B. The proposed development to which the development agreement pertains is in conformity with the gen-
       eral plan, zoning district regulations, and other applicable requirements of the City.

    C. The proposed development subject to the agreement contains outstanding features that advance the pol-
       icies, goals and objectives of Lehi City, or the property owner agrees to provide capital improvements
       that exceed the development's proportionate share of the costs of the facilities needed to service the
       development, which hereby advance the provision of facilities to serve Lehi City.


 APPLICABLE STATE CODE REGULATIONS

10-9a-532
(2) (a) A development agreement may not:
        (i) limit a municipality's authority in the future to:
             (A) enact a land use regulation; or
            (B) take any action allowed under Section 10-8-84;
        (ii) require a municipality to change the zoning designation of an area of land within the municipality in
             the future; or
        (iii) allow a use or development of land that applicable land use regulations governing the area subject to
              the development agreement would otherwise prohibit, unless the legislative body approves the devel-
              opment agreement in accordance with the same procedures for enacting a land use regulation under
              Section 10-9a-502, including a review and recommendation from the planning commission and a pub-
              lic hearing.


 REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of an amendment to the Grant’s Corner Development Agreement.
The applicant previously received approval for a Development Agreement to allow Office/Warehouse in the Mixed-
Use zone. The proposed revision to the Development Agreement is to allow automotive accessories installation and
service. This would be different from traditional service and repair which includes oil changes and other service re-
pairs. The applicant runs a small business that does window tinting which would fall under automotive accessories
installation and service.

A Development Agreement allows for uses other than those normally allowed in the zone. Recent State Legislation
requires that these agreements have a public hearing with the Planning Commission prior to their approval by the City
Council.

The DRC reviewed the proposed revision to the Development Agreement and had one comment that was already
addressed by the applicant and is updated in the packet.

1.    Auto service and repair would allow a lot of other auto related uses that may not be desirable (engine repair,
      auto body repair, etc. Recommend tailoring the wording to "automotive accessories installation and service".

Please consider all DRC comments in the motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Development Agreements are legislative items at the full discretion of the City Council. The Planning Commission
reviews the Development Agreement and can recommend any changes to the City Council.

The public can also speak to this item and express any concerns or support for the development agreement. The public
can also suggest changes to the language of the agreement.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may provide a positive or negative recommendation on the proposed Grant’s Corner
Development Agreement revision. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The proposed Development Agreement amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and
           provisions of the General Plan and its various elements.
      2.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           August 13, 2025

                                    Grant’s Corner Development Agreement Amendment
                                                 DRC Redline Comments

Fox Brothers Properties- requests review of an amendment to the Grant’s Corner Development Agreement allowing auto
service and repair as an allowed use.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Sam Johnston
Date of Plans Reviewed: 8/5/25
Time Start: 1:30 pm
Time End: 1:35 pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Auto service and repair would allow a lot of other auto related uses that may not be desirable (engine repair, auto body
    repair, etc. Recommend tailoring the wording to "automotive accessories installation and service".


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON AUGUST 28, 2025.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Sam Johnston
2695 W Shady Hollow Lane
Lehi, Utah 84043


                       Grants Corner Revision Narrative

Hello,

My name is Sam Johnston. My family and I have lived in Lehi for the last two years. I recently
decided to leave the corporate world and pursue my dream of running my own small business. I
have decided to go the franchise model and have purchased territory for a Black Optix Tint
location. My business will provide automotive window tinting and paint protection services as
well as commercial/residential window tinting.

For the last several weeks, I have been looking at potential locations. I’ve looked as far north as
Murray and as far south as Orem, but my strong preference has always been to locate in Lehi. A
few weeks ago, I found the perfect location in the Grants Corner development at 90 N 500 W. As
I discussed leasing a unit of this space from the landlord it came to my attention that the
development agreement does not allow for automotive work and that window tinting is classified
as automotive.

The landlord and I would like to request a conditional revision to the development agreement to
allow for auto service and repair. One important consideration is that window tinting is very
different from traditional auto. Auto operations illicit images of oil spills and rust buckets
cluttering parking lots. This will not be the case with my business. Tinting is safe and
straightforward. We do not deal with oil or hazardous chemicals of any kind. The tints and paint
protection films we will use are all safe and solid-state materials. Our process has an average
turnaround time of less than two hours. Customer cars will go straight from drop off to the
warehouse space. When they are completed, they will be picked up by the customer on the same
day. I understand that parking space might be a concern as well. Per the lease agreement with the
landlord, I will only be allocated six parking spots. This will be more than enough for my
operation.

I hope that the DRC, Planning Commission, and City Council will approve this revision and give
the opportunity to continue my journey as a small business owner.
                               DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

        This DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) effective as of the date the last
Party signs below (“Effective Date”) by and among Lehi City, a political subdivision of the State
of Utah (“City”) and Fox Bros Properties LLC, whose principal place of business is located at
3052 N Snow Canyon Parkway #201 St. George, Utah 84770 (“Developer”). The City and the
Developer are hereinafter referred to individually as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties.”

                                           RECITALS

        A.      City, acting pursuant to its authority under Municipal Land Use, Development, and
Management Act, Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-9a-101, -803, as amended, and in furtherance of its land
use policies, goals, objectives, ordinances, and regulations of Lehi City, in the exercise of its
legislative discretion, has elected to approve and enter into this Agreement.

       B.      Developer has a legal interest in certain real property, as described in Exhibit A
attached hereto (Property).

       C.       On May 14, 2024, the City Council held a discussion regarding uses of the Property
and their willingness to pursue a development agreement that would allow the proposed use in the
approved Mixed Use Zone as a permitted use.

                                         AGREEMENT

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants, and provisions
set forth herein, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as
follows:

                                           ARTICLE 1

          1.2     Use Approval. The City agrees, and this Agreement confirms, that Light
   Office/Warehouse and automotive accessories installation and service shall be allowed as a
   permitted use on the Property (“Approved Use”) as of the Effective Date of this Agreement,
   subject to the terms of this Agreement. The Approved Use is for office/warehouse and
   automotive accessories installation and service building only and does not include any outside
   storage of materials or goods.

               1.1.1   City agrees to allow an exception to the building height in the Mixed Use
                       Zone being two stories on corner lots, to allow for the proposed one story
                       building.

               1.1.2   City agrees to allow an exception for one module of parking between the
                       building and the street as shown in “Exhibit C”.

        1.3    Developer agrees to the following:

                1.3.1 Develop the site in conformance with all City standards other than those
specified in item 1.1 above.

                                                1
