                                      MAVERIK ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant         AWA- Rick Magness
                                Meeting Date          August 28, 2025
                     Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                      change
                              Decision Type           Legislative
                                   Location           520 W Main
                                    Acreage           0.72 acres
                            Existing Zoning           MU
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           Commercial
               Proposed Zoning Designation            Commercial
                          Existing Land Use           Vacant, previously a Maverik gas station/convenience store
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North MU                  Home converted to business
                                                       South RA-1               Single family residential
                                                        East MU                 Auto Repair
                                                        West C                  Assisted Living
                            Date of DRC Review        August 6, 2025
                              Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                  City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872               This property is part of the original incorporated boundaries of Lehi City.




Maverik Zone Change
  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation for a zone change from Mixed-Use to Commercial for a property
located at 520 West Main Street. This zone change on approximately 0.72 acres of property provides the potential for a
variety of commercial uses. However, no concept plan was submitted at this time. The proposed Commercial zoning
aligns with the Commercial designation in the General Plan.
The Development Review Committee (DRC) reviewed the proposed zone change and only had the comment that
verified that the proposed zone change is consistent with the General Plan designation.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative items. However, when the proposed zone change is consistent with the General Plan, the
Planning Commission and ultimately City Council would need to provide reasons for denying the proposed zone
change.

The public can speak on the proposed zone change. Comments focused on specific concerns with the zone change are
the most helpful.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed zone change is consistent with the General Plan Designation of Commercial (C).
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;




Maverik Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           August 6, 2025

                                                      Maverik Zone Change
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

AWA Engineering- requests review of the Maverik Zone Change located at 500 West Main Street, changing the zoning on
0.72 acres from Mixed Use to Commercial.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Rick Magness
Date of Plans Reviewed: 7/29/25
Time Start: 1:05 pm
Time End: 1:12 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. The proposed zone change would be consistent with the General plan designation of Commercial.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON AUGUST 28, 2025.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
July 29, 2025

Lehi City
Planning Division
153 North 100 East, Lehi, UT 84043

AWA Development Consultants is requesting consideration of a Zoning Map Amendment from Mixed
Use to Commercial, located at 500 West Main Street.

Background
The current site contains a Maverik convenience store.
Assessor Parcel Numbers: 13:022:0051 & 13:022:0052
Overall Site Area: + 0.72 acres
Perimeter Rights-of-Way: W Main Street / N 500 W Street
Current Zoning: MU (Mixed Use Commercial/Residential)
Existing Adjacent Zoning:
        North: MU (Mixed Use)
         South: RA-1 (Residential)
        East: MU (Mixed Use)
        West: C (Commercial)


In accordance with Chapter 4 of the Lehi City Development Code, a Zoning Map Amendment is
respectfully requested for parcels 13:022:0051 and 13:022:0052. These parcels are currently zoned Mixed
Use (MU). We are formally requesting that the zoning designation be amended to Commercial (C). The
subject property is located within the General Plan’s designated Commercial Area. As such, the requested
zone change does not alter the established Character Area designation but rather ensures zoning
consistency with the land use vision outlined in the General Plan.

The proposed zone change to commercial will not negatively impact the surrounding area, as the site is
already being utilized for commercial purposes. This adjustment simply aligns the zoning designation
with the existing use, and no new or intensified activity is planned. As such, the change will have no
adverse effects on the surrounding land uses or the character of the neighborhood.
The proposed reclassification from MU (Mixed Use) to C (Commercial) promotes public health, safety,
and welfare by providing greater clarity and consistency in land use, reducing potential conflicts between
residential and commercial activities. This change supports economic development and efficient use of
infrastructure while maintaining compatibility with the surrounding area. By reinforcing the site's
commercial function, the zone change enhances predictability in future planning and contributes to the
overall vitality and stability of the community.


Thank you for your review and approval.
Regards,

Rick Magness
Rick Magness, AICP
Entitlement Manager / Land Planner
rickm@awaeng.com
(702) 370-6969
