                    WATER’S EDGE GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                      Applicant        Bob Perdue
                                  Meeting Date         August 28, 2025
                       Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation for an amendment to the General
                                                       Plan
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          1300 East 175 South
                                      Acreage          13.02 acres
                              Existing Zoning          Commercial
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          Transit Oriented Development (TOD)
               Proposed Land Use Designation           Mixed-Use (MU)
                            Existing Land Use          Undeveloped and Wetlands
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North Commercial         Strip Mall
                                                       South Commercial         Undeveloped and Wetlands
                                                         East American Fork Walmart
                                                        West C/TOD              Lehi Tech Apartments and
                                                                                MetalMart
                             Date of DRC Review        August 13, 2025
                               Assigned Planner        Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval
The Planning Commission should consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a General Plan
amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Water’s Edge General Plan Amendment
  GENERAL PLAN DESIGNATIONS

TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT (TOD) The Transit Oriented Development (TOD) areas will utilize exist-
ing FrontRunner infrastructure and planned bus rapid transit (BRT) infrastructure for denser development around the
proposed and existing stops. This classification will allow for higher density development and a mix of uses that will
encourage more active transportation with reduced automobile dependence. These uses will include retail, restaurant,
employment, residential, hospitality, entertainment, and other compatible uses.

MIXED USE (MU) The Mixed Use (MU) classification combines a number of land uses within a specific geographic
area. These uses may include higher density residential and may also serve as destinations or corridors of activity. They
may build on the existing fabric, such as along State Street or Main Street, or may occur as new nodes of activity. This
classification may contain a mix of uses including office, higher education, high-density housing, specialty retail, res-
taurants, public facilities, sporting venues, and cultural spaces. Maintaining a substantial residential population within
these areas is critical to their long-term success. Ensuring that the area is populated in the evenings and on weekends
will support a lively, active, and vibrant center.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

COORDINATION AND SUSTAINABILITY Coordinate development efforts to meet the needs of the present
without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.

COMMUNITY SERVICES AND INFRASTRUCTURE Provide community services and infrastructure that ad-
equately supports the growth of the City and region
Strategy 3 Design new development to discourage sprawl and over-consumption of land and to maximize investment
in existing and new infrastructure.

MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT Create walkable and vibrant districts with a complimentary mix of land uses and
densities in the historic downtown, urban center, transit oriented development areas, and other areas of concentrated
density.
Strategy 1 Implement the 3 D’s (diversity, density and design) of mixed use development that supports alternative
modes of transportation such as walking, biking, and transit.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 24, 1997              Property came into the City as part of the Kolob Mountain Ranch Annexation

November 10, 2016          City Council approved the Water’s Edge Concept Plan


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of a General Plan Amendment for the Water’s Edge project—
proposing a change in land use designation from Transit Oriented Development (TOD) to Mixed Use on approxi-
mately 13 acres located at 1300 East and 175 South.

The applicant indicated plans to develop a combination of multi-family housing and commercial uses on the site.
While the current TOD designation allows for this type of development, two existing resolutions restrict rezoning to
TOD until the Utah Transit Authority (UTA) establishes a timeline for transit development. Because the applicant
intends to proceed with development in the near future, they are seeking a change to the Mixed-Use designation,
which does not have restrictions on rezoning.
No updated concept plan was submitted with the application. The previously approved concept plan, dated November



Water’s Edge General Plan Amendment
2016, expired at the end of 2018.

The Development Review Committee (DRC) provided four informational comments.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

General Plan Amendments are legislative items which give the City Council full discretion in whether they approve
them or not. The Planning Commission should consider the proposed amendment’s impact on the area and the goals
and policies outlined in the General Plan.

The public can speak about this item. Comments centered around the General Plan are the most helpful.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendment to the General
Plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed amendment to the Lehi City General Plan is/is not detrimental to the public health, safety,
         and welfare of Lehi City.
    2.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provisions
         of the General Plan and its various elements.
    3.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not consistent with the land uses and zoning of nearby and
         adjoining properties.
    4.   The proposed General Plan amendment will/will not have a substantial adverse effect on surrounding prop-
         erty.
    5.   The affected site is/is not physically suitable in terms of design, location, shape, size, operating characteris-
         tics, and the provision of public services to accommodate any potential future uses, including all landscap-
         ing, loading areas, open spaces, parking areas, setbacks, buffering/screening, walls, fences, yards, and other
         required features.
    6.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Water’s Edge General Plan Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         August 13, 2025

                                            Water’s Edge General Plan Amendment
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Bob Perdue- requests review of the Water’s Edge General Plan Amendment on approximately 13.02 acres located at
approximately 1300 East 175 South, changing the land use designation from Commercial to Mixed Use.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Bob Perdue
Date of Plans Reviewed: 8/4/25
Time Start: 1:43pm
Time End: 1:48pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Power circuit capacity in this area is limited. Therefore, a power circuit study will be required for this development.
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
2. The General Plan is currently TOD, the zoning is Commercial. Update narrative to reflect this.
3. The Water's Edge concept plan has expired (all land use approvals are good for two years). That concept was approved
    November 10, 2016. That concept does not bear any weight for this General Plan Amendment application.
4. The City Council and Planning Commission should consider the impact of changing the designation from TOD, which
    is intended to provide a mixed-use development that complements the future transit station in this area. There are
    design requirements that are important to get right that are included in the TOD designation that are not in MU. Part of
    allowing density in this area is to make sure there are the necessary design features that provide some good open space
    and prioritize walkability.

DRC COMMENTS:

TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT (TOD) The Transit Oriented Development (TOD) areas will utilize existing
FrontRunner infrastructure and planned bus rapid transit (BRT) infrastructure for denser development around the proposed
and existing stops. This classification will allow for higher density development and a mix of uses that will encourage more
active transportation with reduced automobile dependence. These uses will include retail, restaurant, employment,
residential, hospitality, entertainment, and other compatible uses.

MIXED USE (MU) The Mixed Use (MU) classification combines a number of land uses within a specific geographic area.
These uses may include higher density residential and may also serve as destinations or corridors of activity. They may
build on the existing fabric, such as along State Street or Main Street, or may occur as new nodes of activity. This
classification may contain a mix of uses including office, higher education, high-density housing, specialty retail,
restaurants, public facilities, sporting venues, and cultural spaces. Maintaining a substantial residential population within
these areas is critical to their long-term success. Ensuring that the area is populated in the evenings and on weekends will
support a lively, active, and vibrant center.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON AUGUST 28th




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Proposed General Plan Amendment Request


Lehi City Planning Department
Subject: General Plan Amendment for Lehi Waters Edge
APN: 13-001-0127


We respectfully submit this request for a General Plan Amendment and zoning change
for the 13.02-acre parcel located within Lehi City, currently designated as C–
Commercial. We propose reclassifying this property under a Mixed-Use designation to
better align with the surrounding context and support a more integrated, sustainable
development vision.
Currently, the site remains undeveloped. Approximately 3.5 acres are classified as
wetlands, with the remaining ~9.5 acres available for active development. The property
is strategically located, surrounded on three sides by existing commercial and retail
developments. Key neighboring uses include:
   •   South: Interstate 15
   •   East: Walmart Supercenter
   •   North: Multi-tenant commercial and retail buildings
   •   West: MetalMart, Lehi Tech Apartments, and additional commercial and
       residential uses
While the site does not currently front any major roadways, it benefits from two
established access routes:
   •   Primary access from a fee-owned road to the west, linking the parcel with S 1350
       E and S 1200 E Streets, both of which connect to Main Street
   •   Secondary access via a permanent easement to the north, traversing the
       Woodbury commercial center and connecting to Main Street and State Street
Given the site’s context, the current C–Commercial zoning may no longer represent the
highest and best use. In contrast, Mixed-Use zoning will unlock the property’s full
potential, allowing for a thoughtfully integrated combination of:
   •   Multifamily apartments and for-sale housing
   •   Hotel accommodations
   •   Ground-floor retail, dining, and commercial services
This blend of residential, commercial, and hospitality uses will not only activate the
underutilized site but also create a walkable, community-oriented environment that
enhances the surrounding area. Residents will benefit from direct pedestrian access to
nearby shops, services, and employment centers, reducing vehicle dependency and
supporting local businesses.
This proposed amendment supports Lehi City’s long-term vision for smart growth, infill
development, and balanced land use. It will:
   •   Provide much-needed housing options to meet regional demand
   •   Attract new businesses and hospitality services
   •   Generate increased tax revenue and economic activity
   •   Complement adjacent commercial developments
   •   Improve quality of life for residents and the broader community
We are confident that this Mixed-Use designation will create a vibrant, connected, and
economically valuable addition to Lehi City.
                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2020-49


       A RESOLUTION TEMPORARILY SUSPENDING THE ACCEPTANCE OF
       LAND USE APPLICATIONS TO REZONE PROPERTY TO THE TRANSIT
                     ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT ZONE

         WHEREAS, Chapter 38 of Lehi City’s development code creates a transit-oriented
development (“TOD”) zone and the conditions under which the Lehi City Council may exercise
its discretion and legislatively approve applications to rezone property to the TOD zone; and

        WHEREAS, one of the requirements specified in Section 38.030 is that the development
site be “within one quarter mile (1/4) of an existing or future transit station along a rail line”; and

        WHEREAS, for several years Lehi City has relied on representations made by
representatives of the Utah Transit Authority (“UTA”) as to the likely location of future transit
stations in the development of its general plan, including TOD designations within the general
plan, for TOD projects; and

        WHEREAS, recently the likelihood of UTA constructing future transit stations in Lehi
City as previously indicated has become less certain; and

       WHEREAS, it is critical to fulfill the purposes of the TOD zone that a transit station be
located within close proximity in order to support the traffic impact of the density that results
from rezoning property to the TOD zone; and

        WHEREAS, until the location of future transit stations can be confirmed, it is necessary
for the City to temporarily suspend the acceptance and consideration of land use applications to
rezone property to the TOD zone; and

        WHEREAS, on June 23rd, 2020, the City Council held a duly noticed public meeting to
ascertain the facts regarding this matter, which facts and comments are found in the meeting
record; and

        THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Municipal Council of the City of Lehi, Utah
as follows:

       1.   The Lehi City Council finds that land use applications to rezone property to the
TOD zone should be temporarily suspended until the location future transit stations can be
confirmed.
       2.       Such action furthers the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Lehi by
ensuring that the traffic impacts of developments within the TOD zone are appropriately
mitigated by the development’s proximity to a transit station.

       3.     The Lehi Planning Director is directed not to accept land use applications for
rezoning property to the TOD zone until future transit stations can be confirmed.

This resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.

Approved and Adopted by the Municipal Council of Lehi City this 23rd day of June, 2020.




                                                      ATTEST:



_______________________________                       ______________________________
Mayor Mark Johnson                                    Teisha Wilson, City Recorder
                                 RESOLUTION NO. 2021-08


    A RESOLUTION AMENDING RESOLUTION 2020-49 WHICH TEMPORARILY
   SUSPENDED THE ACCEPTANCE OF LAND USE APPLICATIONS TO REZONE
        PROPERTY TO THE TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT ZONE

       WHEREAS, on June 23, 2020, the Lehi City Council adopted Resolution 2020-49 which
temporarily suspended the acceptance of land use applications to rezone property to the transit-
oriented development (“TOD”) zone;

       WHEREAS, the Lehi City Council desires to amend Resolution 2020-49 to describe the
conditions under which the Lehi City Council would consider the approval of an application to
rezone property to the TOD zone; and

        WHEREAS, on March 9, 2021, the City Council held a duly noticed public meeting to
ascertain the facts regarding this matter, which facts and comments are found in the meeting
record; and

        THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Municipal Council of the City of Lehi, Utah
as follows:

       1.       The Lehi City Council finds that the temporary suspension of land use
applications to rezone property to the TOD zone should be lifted under the conditions described
below.

       2.     The Lehi Planning Director is directed to accept land use applications for
rezoning property to the TOD zone that contains the following elements:
           • The proposed development will supply infrastructure (i.e. water, sewer, power,
              pressurized irrigation, storm drain and/or transportation) at no cost to the City
              which will allow the proposed development to function before future TOD
              components are constructed without significant burden to the City’s current
              infrastructure;
           • The recent transit studies conducted by UTA (Point of the Mountain and Central
              Corridor) identify a future transit station that complies with the proximity
              requirements in the City’s development code; and
           • The proposed development will dedicate property for a future transit station at no
              cost to the City.
       3.       Such action furthers the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Lehi by
ensuring that the current and future public infrastructure needs of the City are met and the traffic
impacts of developments within the TOD zone are appropriately mitigated by the development’s
proximity to a transit station.

This resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.

Approved and Adopted by the Municipal Council of Lehi City this 9th day of March, 2021.




                                                      ATTEST:



_______________________________                       ______________________________
Mayor Mark Johnson                                    Teisha Wilson, City Recorder
