              SKULL VALLEY PLAT A FLAG LOT CONDITIONAL USE
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                 Applicant         Holden Rockwell
                              Meeting Date         August 28, 2025
                 Requested Action/Purpose          Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use flag lot
                             Decision Type         Administrative
                                  Location         208 E 200 S
                               Project Area        0.62 acres
                           Existing Zoning         R-2
         General Plan Land Use Designation         MDR
                         Existing Land Use         Existing single family home
            Adjacent Zoning and Land Use                North R-2                  Single Family Home
                                                        South R-2                  Single Family Home
                                                         East R-2                  Single Family Home
                                                         West R-2                  Single Family Home
                         Date of DRC Review        August 13, 2025
                           Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                        Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the vicinity
of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said requirements and
conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site planning, traffic
control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads, and time limits for
the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential requirements and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers of
    all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance and
    character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and drive-
    ways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter, heat,
    glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and operated
    in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of the
    proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General Plan,
    and the intent and purpose of this Code.




Garrett’s Flag Lot Conditional Use Permit
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being, or
will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with the
land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest

Section 12.210. Flag Lot Standards.

Minimum Requirements. A flag lot shall meet the following minimum requirements:

    1. The pole portion of the lot shall have at least 20 feet of frontage on a dedicated public street, which frontage
    serves as access only to the subject lot.

    2. The flag lot shall have a hard surfaced driveway from the public street to the required parking area for the flag
    lot with a minimum 20-foot wide drivable surface from lip of gutter to lip of gutter, per the cross section in this
    subsection (See Figure 5). Adequate provisions as determined by the City Engineer shall be made for drainage of
    the driveway such as curb and gutter, berming, swales, or underground piping. Curb and gutter shall be constructed
    in conformance with the Road-5 standard drawing in the Lehi City Design Standards and Public Improvements Spec-
    ifications manual.

    3.   Not more than one flag lot shall be created from an existing lot or parcel.

    4. The remainder of the lot or parcel from which the flag lot is being divided shall maintain all of the required
    zoning standards, including frontage.

    5. A flag lot cannot be created as part of a subdivision where there are more than two lots in the subdivision or from
    an illegally divided lot.

    6.   Only one single family dwelling shall be allowed on a flag lot.

    7. The width of the pole of the flag lot shall be not less than 20 feet of drivable surface unless otherwise recom-
    mended by the City Engineer and Fire Marshal and approved by the Planning Commission.

    8. The pole portion shall maintain the required width for its entire length and a vertical clearance of thirteen and
    one half feet high.

    9. The single family dwelling unit shall be located within 250 feet of a fire hydrant measured along the curb line,
    in accordance with the City’s latest Design Standards and Public Improvement Specifications.

    10. The flag portion of the lot shall meet the minimum square footage and width requirements of the applicable zone.

    11. Front, rear, and side yard setback requirements of the flag portion of the lot shall be the same as required in the
    applicable zone.

    12. The shape of a flag lot shall be approved by the Planning Commission as part of the subdivision approval. Dog-
    legs and jagged, irregular shapes may not be acceptable.

    13. The pole portion of the lot shall be part of the lot, not an access easement, and shall be designated as a public
    utility easement.

    14. “No parking” signs may be required on the pole portion of the lot as deemed necessary by the Planning Com-
    mission.

    15. The street address for the flag lot shall be clearly identified so that it is visible from the public street with either
    an address label on the mailbox or a separate address marker.

    16. All applicable street improvements including curb, gutter, and sidewalk shall be installed along the frontage of
    both the flag lot and the lot or parcel from which it is being subdivided.




Garrett’s Flag Lot Conditional Use Permit
    17. No accessory building shall be allowed on the flagpole portion of the lot. This subsection shall not be interpreted
    to prohibit aesthetic entry features, such as archways, decorative mailboxes, raised landscape beds, or similar struc-
    tures.

    18. The Planning Commission may impose additional conditions on flag lots including:
        (a) location and height of the dwelling;
        (b) compatibility of the proposed project with existing conditions; and
        (c) screening and landscaping.

    19. When the flag lot area is less than 10,000 square feet, five feet of landscaping including evergreens or other tall
    shrubs that provide a visual barrier and a six-foot sight-obscuring fence shall be required along the perimeter of the
    flag lot to screen the flag lot from neighboring properties.

B.     Approval Process. The Planning Commission shall have authority to approve a flag lot as a conditional use in
accordance with the requirements of this Section and Chapter 9, Conditional Uses, of this Code. Requests for a flag lot
are also subject to the subdivision requirements and approval process as per Chapter 11, Development Application Re-
quirements, of this Code.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872 – This property is part of the original incorporated boundaries of Lehi City.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Skull Valley Plat A Flag Lot Conditional Use located at 208 E 200 S in the R-2
zone. The resulting lots of this flag lot subdivision will be 17,590 square feet for lot 1 with an existing home, and 9,542
square feet for the newly created lot 2. Both lots meet the 8,000 square foot minimum for dwellings in the R-2 zone. The
75-foot frontage requirement for the front lot and 20-foot-wide requirement for the flag stem are both met.

The DRC reviewed the proposed flag lot and had no comments on the conditional use. They received technical comments
on the separate two-lot subdivision plan set. Those comments will all be met as part of the approval of the subdivision.
The most noteworthy comment from that review is the following:

    1.   As per city standards there will need to be a landscaping barrier. Section 12.210.C.19. When the flag lot area
         is less than 10,000 square feet, five feet of landscaping including evergreens or other tall shrubs that provide a
         visual barrier and a six-foot sight-obscuring fence shall be required along the perimeter of the flag lot to screen
         the flag lot from neighboring properties.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional use applications are administrative. This means if they meet the Code they must be approved. However, the
Planning Commission can put reasonable conditions on the use that are related to potential negative impacts. These con-
ditions could include things like the orientation of the home, fencing or landscaping requirements.

The public can speak to this item. Comments focused on negative impacts and potential solutions that could mitigate these
impacts are helpful.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve with conditions the proposed flag lot. Any motion should include find-
ings. Possible findings include:




Garrett’s Flag Lot Conditional Use Permit
    1.   The proposed flag lot meets/does not meet the intent of the flag lot code requirements.
    2.   The proposed lots meet the frontage and size requirements of the R-2 zone and the flag lot ordinance.
    3.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Garrett’s Flag Lot Conditional Use Permit
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           August 13, 2025

                                             Skull Valley Flag Lot Conditional Use
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Holden Rockwell- requests review of conditional use for the Skull Valley Flag Lot located at 208 East 200 South.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Holden Rockwell
Date of Plans Reviewed: 8/1/25
Time Start: 1:14 pm
Time End: 1:14 pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON AUGUST 28, 2025.
(NEED ENVELOPES BY FRIDAY)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Skull Valley Properties Inc.
Holden & Seth Rockwell
208 E 200 S
Lehi, Ut 84043


Lehi City,

As the agents and owners of the above address, located within Lehi City limits, we would
like to request the approval of a two-lot subdivision. The home at this location was our
childhood home and is now an investment property for us. As such we are committed to
retaining the values and vision of a successful Lehi City. The approval of a flag lot at this
location will allow for additional housing within Lehi city through the future building of a
single-family home unit.

Regards,




 X
 Holden Rockwell




 X
 Seth Rockwell
