                CHAPTER 37 CONNECTIVITY STANDARDS UPDATE
                             DEVELOPMENT CODE AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant        Lehi City
                           Meeting Date         September 11, 2025
                Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation on proposed amendments to the Lehi City
                                                Development Code
                            Decision Type       Legislative
                      Date of DRC Review        August 27, 2025

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                             City Council       Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060. Criteria for Approval.
No amendment to this Code, or the Zoning District Map(s), may be recommended for approval by the Commission
nor approved by the City Council unless such amendment or conditions thereto are consistent with the General Plan.
In considering a Code amendment, or Zoning District Map(s) amendment, the applicant shall identify, and the City
Staff, DRC, Commission, and the City Council may consider the following factors, among others:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3.   Consistency and Compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties.
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


 REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting review and recommendation of a Development Code Amendment to the Connectivity Stand-
ards in Chapter 37 of the Development Code.

The proposed amendment includes the following changes:

    1.   Adding and updating definitions;
    2.   Adding provisions to the circulation plans requirement that the City may require modal filters, street closures, or
         access management improvements;
    3.   Changing “trail” to “shared use path” throughout the chapter to be more specific and to match UDOT’s terminol-
         ogy;
    4.   Removing the hard maximum block length requirements for the optional master planned trail and greenway ex-
         ceptions, these options are not by right and require approval from the City Council, so they can weigh what the
           block length should be on a case-by-case basis;
      5.   Changing connections from the end of a cul-de-sac to a street to include a 10’ path instead of a walk to accom-
           modate all active transportation modes (sometimes this is required anyway if there is an exception requested);
      6.   Updating cross access standards and not requiring cross access if two sites are connected via a local street or drive
           aisle; and
      7.   Adding a low traffic neighborhood exception option that allows modal filters or removing vehicle connections
           that would result in cut-through traffic within neighborhood areas. The draft Code requires that pedestrian, bike,
           emergency, and utility maintenance access be maintained. This option is not by-right and requires review by the
           DRC, Planning Commission, and approval by the City Council.

The DRC had five comments on the proposed amendment, including the following:

1.    Add language about using shared use paths for emergency vehicle access
2.    If we want to make these connections inviting and reasonably plant trees, we should maintain no less than 7'
      shoulders for landscaping in any corridor; the same reason we increased park strip widths.
3.    Suggest to keep the 20' corridor and allow the shared use path to be offset within the corridor.

Please consider all of the DRC comments in the motion.\


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Development Code Amendments are legislative items which allows for the Planning Commission to provide feedback
on whether or not they support the changes and also they can request any changes they would like to see to the pro-
posal.

Residents may also speak to Development Code Amendments. They also can share why they support or not different
aspects of the proposed change. For any changes to be implemented, the Planning Commission and ultimately the City
Council will need to include any changes in their motion for them to be incorporated.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendments to the Lehi
City Development Code. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provi-
           sions of the General Plan and its various elements.
      2.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           August 27, 2025

                                        Development Code amendment to Chapter 37
                                                DRC Redline Comments

Lehi City – Requests review of a Development Code amendment to Chapter 37, connectivity standards.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Mike West
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 8/18/25
Time Start: 1:42pm
Time End: 1:46pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Brad – Fiber: No comments.
Garion – Fire:
1. Add language about using shared use paths for emergency vehicle access
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
2. F-1: Keep the original phrasing on this, "match the sidewalk or trail width being connected." It doesn't make sense to
    have a 10' wide section of trail connecting two 5' sidewalks.
3. If we want to make these connections inviting and reasonably plant trees, we should maintain no less than 7' shoulders
    for landscaping in any corridor; the same reason we increased park strip widths.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments.
4. Suggest to keep the 20' corridor and allow the shared use path to be offset within the corridor.
5. Remove "be"
Luke – Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning: No comments.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON SEPTEMBER 11th




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
 Community Development Department –
 Planning Division

 153 North 100 East
 Lehi, UT 84043
 Office 385.201.1030
 lehi-ut.gov




August 18, 2025

Narrative – Chapter 37 Development Code Amendment – Connectivity Standards

The Planning Division is proposing a Development Code Amendment to the Connectivity
standards in Chapter 37 of the Development Code.

The proposed amendment includes the following changes:
   1. Adding and updating definitions;
   2. Adding provisions to the circulation plans requirement that the City may require modal
       filters, street closures, or access management improvements;
   3. Changing “trail” to “shared use path” throughout the chapter to be more specific and to
       match UDOT’s terminology;
   4. Removing the hard maximum block length requirements for the optional master planned
       trail and greenway exceptions, these options are not by right and require approval from
       the City Council, so they can weigh what the block length should be on a case-by-case
       basis;
   5. Changing connections from the end of a cul-de-sac to a street to include a 10’ path
       instead of a walk to accommodate all active transportation modes (sometimes this is
       required anyway if there is an exception requested);
   6. Updating cross access standards and not requiring cross access if two sites are connected
       via a local street or drive aisle; and
   7. Adding a low traffic neighborhood exception option that allows modal filters or removing
       vehicle connections that would result in cut-through traffic within neighborhood areas.
       The draft Code requires that pedestrian, bike, emergency, and utility maintenance access
       be maintained. This option is not by-right and requires review by the DRC, Planning
       Commission, and approval by the City Council.

Please contact the Planning Division if you have any questions.

Thank you,

Mike West, AICP
Planning Division Manager
CHAPTER 37
DESIGN STANDARDS
(Amended 05/28/19; 03/31/20)

Section 37.010. Nonresidential Design Standards.
Section 37.020. Multi-Family Residential Design Standards
Section 37.030. Single-Family Residential Design Standards
Section 37.040. Connectivity Standards
Section 37.050. Downtown Outdoor Spaces Site Design Standards
Section 37.060. Parking Standards

I.

Section 37.040. Connectivity Standards
(New 04/26/16; Amended 02/27/18; 05/12/20; 04/13/21; 12/12/24)

A. Purpose. These standards are intended to create a connected transportation system between
neighborhoods and commercial areas within the City. The specific purposes of this Section include:

     1. encouraging active transportation through additional connections and increased destination access;

     2. improving emergency access and reducing response times to neighborhoods by increasing the
     number of street and emergency access connections;

     3. increasing effectiveness of delivery access, public works maintenance, and garbage pickup;

     4. providing better routes to interconnect neighborhoods, shopping, recreation, civic buildings,
     employment centers, transit, schools, and parks;

     5. preserving capacity of master planned arterial and collector roads for regional trips by providing
     alternative routes for local trips;

     6. improving air quality through reduced auto emissions;

     7. preventing isolated developments that increase dependency on automobiles; and

     8. reducing vehicle miles travelled by reducing travel distances and encouraging active transportation

B. Definitions.

     1. Block Length – The distance along any given road frontage between two intersections with three
     or more connecting links (see Figure 143). Links that connect into a cul-de-sac shall not be considered
     the termination point of a block length (see Figure 144).




                                            37-1 Connectivity Standards
Figure 143. Example block length measurements.




Figure 144. Example block length measurements with a cul-de-sac.


     2. Chicane – OffsetAn extension of a curbcurbs that require vehicles to drive in an “s” pattern and is
     typically on a local street to provide an element of traffic calming.

     3. Connectivity Index – A ratio of roadway links and nodes that serves as a metric for measuring the
     level of connectivity.

     4. Cul-de-sac Length – The distance from the street intersection to the throat of the cul-de-sac bulb
     (see Figure 145).




                                                  37-2 Connectivity Standards
Figure 145. Example of cul-de-sac length measurement.


     5. Curb Extension – An extension of a curb in a roadway to narrow the road and eliminate on-street
     parking to preserve visibility at pedestrian crossings to provide additional safety for pedestrians and
     serves as a traffic calming measure.

     6. Greenway Trail Path – A minimum 10-foot asphalt or concrete trail shared use path intended for
     use by cyclists and pedestrians located in a right-of-way with a minimum 40-foot width with
     landscaping on both sides.

     7. Isolated Development – A proposed subdivision that does not connect to existing subdivisions in a
     superblock by means of a local street. In an isolated development, travel to other subdivisions or
     destinations in a superblock is only achieved by means of a collector or arterial road (see Figure 146).

                                                    B



                                      A




Figure 146. Example isolated development that only connects to collector roads and does not connect to the adjacent subdivision. Travel from
point A to point B can only be done by means of using a collector road.


     8. Links – Streets that connect to nodes or external streets not included in the proposed development.
                                                                                                                                               Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.25", No bullets or numbering
     8.9. Local Street – the lowest classification in the Master Transportation Plan’s street hierarchy. Their
     primary purpose is to provide direct access to adjacent residential, commercial, or other abutting
     properties and to connect to collector roads. Local streets should have low speeds and traffic volumes
     and are shared streets with other users such as people riding bicycles. A local street may serve as a
     primary link in the City’s bike network, in which case, traffic calming and traffic circulation should be

                                                   37-3 Connectivity Standards
     carefully considered to keep vehicle speeds and volumes low.

     10. Mode Filter – a street improvement that filters out targeted modes from the traveled way. This
     typically includes closing a connection to vehicles but maintaining access for people walking and
     biking.                                                                                                          Formatted: Underline
                                                                                                                      Formatted: List Paragraph, Left, No bullets or numbering,
                                                                                                                      Widow/Orphan control, Tab stops: Not at 0" + 0.5"
     9.11.        Node – Street intersection or cul-de-sac located within a proposed development. A street
     intersection exists where two or more named roads intersect.

     10.12.      Bike/Pedestrian Walkway – Any trailshared use path, sidewalk, or other pathway that is
     intended for use by bikes and pedestrians.

     13. Separated Bike Lane – a bike lane located along a roadway that includes separation from vehicular
     travel lanes with a painted buffer area or physical barrier such as a reflector poles, curb stops, concrete
     medians, curb, landscaped areas, or vertical separation. Separated bike lanes include both buffered bike
     lanes and protected bike lanes, also known as cycle tracks.
                                                                                                                      Formatted: List Paragraph, Left, No bullets or numbering,
                                                                                                                      Widow/Orphan control, Tab stops: Not at 0" + 0.5"
     11.14.     Shared Use Path – a hard surfaced path intended for shared use by people walking, biking,
     or using human powered and battery assisted mobility devices as allowed by State Law. Shared use
     paths may be located in an independent right-of-way or be located along the side of a street.

     12.15.       Street Stub – An existing street constructed within an existing subdivision that extends to
     the property line of an adjacent undeveloped property. Streets are stubbed to ensure interconnections
     with future subdivisions (see Figure 147).




Figure 147. Example street stub intended to connect with a future subdivision on the adjacent undeveloped property.


     13.16.      Superblock – A large block including an internal network of blocks and local streets
     bounded by roads of a higher classification than local roads, such as collector roads, arterial roads, and
     highways (see Figure 148). In no case shall local roads serve as the bounds of a superblock. The Jordan
     River, Utah Lake, and the Traverse Mountain foothills create the edge of a superblock.




                                                    37-4 Connectivity Standards
Figure 148. Example of a superblock bound by collector and arterial roads.


C. Circulation Plan. A circulation plan shall be provided as part of a preliminary subdivision plat
   application.

     1. The circulation plan shall address street connectivity, bike and pedestrian circulation, emergency
     access, and parking movements. In cases where cut-through traffic is likely, traffic calming measures
     such as curb extensions, chicanes, raised crossings, mode filters, closure of direct vehicle connections,
     access management improvements, or other features may be required by the City.

     2. The circulation plan shall show the connectivity index, block length dimensions, cul-de-sac length
     dimensions, bike and pedestrian facilities, and any proposed traffic calming features.

     3. The circulation plan shall take into account access and connectivity on adjacent parcels. On a case-
     by-case basis the Planning Director and City Engineer may dictate the required location for road stubs
     into adjacent properties.

     4. A circulation plan shall be required for proposed developments with more than one acre in project
     size or with more than ten units. The Planning Director and City Engineer may waive the requirement
     for a circulation plan on a case-by-case basis.

D. Connectivity Index Calculation. The required connectivity index is calculated by dividing the total
   number of links by the total number of nodes (see Figure 149).




                                                   37-5 Connectivity Standards
Figure 149. Example connectivity index calculation showing nodes and links. This example shows 23 links and 13 nodes which equates to a
connectivity index of 1.77.


     1. For the purposes of calculating the number of total links, one link beyond each node shall be
     included in the connectivity index calculation. Street stubs that provide future access to adjacent
     properties or streets that connect to existing streets are considered links.

     2. An additional link shall be included in the connectivity index calculation for each of the following:

          a. hard surface trailshared use path connection through a cul-de-sac with a minimum trail path
             width of ten feet including landscaped shoulders on each side of at least five feet in width for
             a minimum corridor width of 20 feet (see Figure 150);

          b. hard surface master planned trail shared use path connection with a minimum trail path width
             of ten feet including landscaped shoulders on each side of at least five feet in width for a
             minimum corridor width of 20 feet (see Figure 151);

          c. internal hard surface trail shared use path segment connecting two roads with a minimum trail
             path width of ten feet including landscaped shoulders on each side of at least five feet in width
             for a minimum corridor width of 20 feet (see Figure 152).




Figure 150. Cul-de-sac with a pedestrian connection to allow access to an adjacent open space.




                                                    37-6 Connectivity Standards
Figure 151. Pedestrian connection to a master planned trailshared use path.




Figure 152. Trails Shared Use Paths make bike and pedestrian connections between multiple streets.


     3. An additional 1/2 link shall be included in the connectivity index calculation for each roadway or
     trail shared use path segment where homes face an amenitized open space, park, or natural area (see
     Figure 153). The roadway segment shall have a minimum 300 feet of frontage along the open space.




Figure 153. Park layout allows access from all sides with home fronts facing the park.


E. Residential Connectivity Standards. All new residential subdivisions with ten or more units or more
   than one acre shall meet the following connectivity index, block length, and cul-de-sac length standards
   for private and public roads.

     1. Required Connectivity Index. The minimum required connectivity index shall be required based

                                                     37-7 Connectivity Standards
on the project density as identified in the following table of minimum connectivity index scores:

                                    Density                Index Score
                                 0-2.5 DU/AC                   1.5
                                 2.6-4 DU/AC                   1.6
                                 4.1-6 DU/AC                   1.7
                                   6+DU/AC                     1.8

    a. Reduction in Required Connectivity Index. The required connectivity index may be reduced if
       the applicant provides clear and convincing evidence that it is impracticable to achieve due to:

         i. road grades that exceed ten percent;

        ii. Jordan River;

       iii. Utah Lake;

       iv. delineated wetlands;

        v. other significant natural or historic features such as Dry Creek or the Waste Ditch drainage
           channel;

       vi. existing adjacent development;

       vii. rail corridors; or

      viii. limited access roadways.

    b. Reductions in the required connectivity index will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and
       shall require positive recommendations from the reviewing departments and Planning
       Commission and approval by the City Council.

    c. The total allowed reduction to the required connectivity index shall be based on an analysis of
       existing conditions that prevent connections. As part of the analysis, City staff shall ensure the
       internal connectivity of the subdivision meets the required connectivity index and that
       connectivity is provided to adjacent properties where possible.

    d. In locations where street connections are determined to be impracticable to achieve, bike and
       pedestrian connections shall be used where determined practicable. A density bonus may be
       considered and approved by the City Council if a bike and pedestrian bridge is proposed and
       constructed to make a connection to a master planned trailshared use path.

2. Maximum Block Lengths. Maximum block lengths allowed shall be required based on the project
density as identified on the following table of maximum block lengths:

           Density                                         Block Length
        0-2.5 DU/AC                        1,000 ft. street and pedestrian block length
        2.6-4 DU/AC                         800 ft. street and pedestrian block length
        4.1-6 DU/AC                         600 ft. street and pedestrian block length
        6.1+ DU/AC               600 ft. street block length and 400 ft. pedestrian block length

                                     37-8 Connectivity Standards
a.    Increase in Block Length. The maximum allowed block length may be increased if the
      applicant provides clear and convincing evidence that it is impracticable to achieve due to:

       i. road grades that exceed ten percent;

      ii. Jordan River;

      iii. Utah Lake;

      iv. delineated wetlands;

       v. other significant natural and historic features such as Dry Creek or the Waste Ditch
          drainage channel;

      vi. existing adjacent development;

     vii. rail corridors; or

     viii. limited access roadways.

b.    Increases in block length will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and shall require positive
      recommendations from the reviewing departments and Planning Commission and approval by
      the City Council.

c.    Master planned trails shared use paths as identified on the Lehi Bike and Pedestrian Master
      Plan may be considered as the satisfactory termination of a block in lieu of a road connection
      and shall require positive recommendations from the Reviewing Departments and Planning
      Commission and approval by the City Council. Master planned trails shared use paths shall
      only be allowed to terminate a block length if the following criteria are met:

        i.the trail shared use path connects two roads through a block to ensure bike and pedestrian
            connectivity;
       ii.the shared use pathtrail connection only terminates a block length in one direction;
      iii.the block length for vehicular traffic does not exceed 1250 feet;
      iv.a parallel vehicular route is provided to ensure reasonable vehicular and emergency access
            in to a subdivision; and
       v.the shared use pathtrail is not located along an arterial roadway as defined in the Lehi City
            Master Transportation Plan;
      vi.all other connectivity standards are met.

d.    Greenway shared use pathtrail segments that are not identified as a master planned shared use
      pathtrail may be considered as the satisfactory termination of a block length in lieu of a road
      connection and shall require positive recommendations from the Reviewing Departments and
      Planning Commission and approval by the City Council. Greenway shared use pathtrails shall
      only be allowed to terminate a block length if the following criteria are met:

       i. the shared use pathtrail connects directly to a master planned shared use pathtrail or
          separated bike lane or is part of an interconnected network of shared use pathstrails that
          connects to a master planned shared use pathtrail or separated bike lane;
      ii. the shared use pathtrail connection only terminates a block length in one direction;

                                 37-9 Connectivity Standards
        iii. the shared use pathtrail connects two roads through a block to ensure bike and pedestrian
             connectivity;
        iv. the block length for vehicular traffic does not exceed 1,250 feet for developments with less
             than 4.0 units per acre;
         v. the block length for vehicular traffic does not exceed 900 feet for developments with 4.0
             or more units per acre;
     vi.iv. a parallel vehicular route is provided to ensure reasonable vehicular and emergency access
             in a subdivision; and
     vii.v. all other connectivity standards are met.

3. Cul-de-sac Length Standards. Maximum cul-de-sac lengths allowed shall be required based on the
project density as identified on the following table of maximum cul-de-sac lengths:


                                      Density          Cul-de-sac Length
                                   0-2.5 DU/AC              400 ft.
                                   2.6+ DU/AC               250 ft.

    a.    A cul-de-sac shall not be allowed in R-2, R-2.5 or R-3 zones unless the applicant provides clear
          and convincing evidence that the cul-de-sac is be necessary to develop the entire parcel due to:

           i. road grades that exceed ten percent;

          ii. Jordan River;

          iii. Utah Lake;

          iv. delineated wetlands;

           v. other significant natural and historic features such as Dry Creek or the Waste Ditch
              drainage channel;

          vi. existing adjacent development;

         vii. rail corridors; or

         viii. limited access roadways.

    b.    Requests for cul-de-sacs within the R-2, R-2.5, and R-3 zones will be reviewed on a case-by-
          case basis and shall require recommendations from the reviewing departments and Planning
          Commission and approval by the City Council.

4. Superblock Internal Connectivity. All new roads constructed within superblocks shall interconnect
all existing stub streets and future adjacent vacant properties in order to prevent isolated developments.
New subdivisions shall meet the following requirements:

    a.    New roads and pedestrian walkways in the proposed subdivision shall be connected to all
          existing streets and pedestrian walkways stubbed to the property (see Figure 154).




                                     37-10 Connectivity Standards
Figure 154. Subdivision under construction is connecting to an existing street stub.


           b.    Street stub connections shall be provided to adjacent undeveloped properties at a maximum
                 spacing equivalent to the maximum allowed block length (see Section 37.030(E)(2) to find
                 applicable maximum block lengths). Street stub spacing is measured along the property line of
                 a proposed subdivision (see Figure 155). Street stub connections shall be placed to
                 nonresidential areas for future connections as part of redevelopment projects.




Figure 155. Street stub spacing is shown with red arrows placed along the property lines of a subdivision.


           c.    Local streets shall be connected to each collector or arterial road located on the edges of a
                 superblock, unless it is a limited-access roadway that specifically prohibits local street
                 connections (see Figure 156).




                                                     37-11 Connectivity Standards
Figure 156. The subdivision connects to each collector and arterial street bounding the superblock with the exception of Pioneer Crossing, which
is a limited access roadway.


           d.    Isolated developments shall not be created within a superblock that requires travel on collector
                 and arterial roads to get to other destinations within the same superblock. Shared use pathTrail
                 connections may be allowed as connections between developments in lieu of streets to prevent
                 isolated developments if an exception to the maximum block length is warranted. When a
                 shared use pathtrail is allowed as a connection between developments, the shared use pathtrail
                 network shall have direct access to a master planned shared use pathtrail or to a separated bike
                 lane.

           e.    Exceptions for to the superblock internal connectivity requirements may be allowed if the
                 applicant provides clear and convincing evidence that it is impracticable to meet the standards
                 due to:

                  i. road grades that exceed ten percent;

                 ii. Jordan River;

                 iii. Utah Lake;

                 iv. delineated wetlands;

                 v. other significant natural and historic features such as Dry Creek or the Waste Ditch
                      drainage channel;

                 vi. existing adjacent development;

                vii. rail corridors; or

                viii. limited access roadways.

           f.    Exceptions to the superblock internal connectivity requirements will be reviewed on a case-by-
                 case basis and shall require positive recommendations from the reviewing departments and
                 Planning Commission and approval by the City Council.

     5. Connectivity Density Bonus. New subdivisions that exceed the minimum connectivity index and
     meet the block and cul-de-sac lengths may be eligible for flexibility in lot sizes, frontages, or a density
     bonus subject to approval by the City Council as part of the preliminary subdivision approval process.
     When connectivity bonuses are proposed, the following shall be considered:

           a.    Street, bike, and pedestrian connections that are required towards meeting the connectivity
                 index, block length, or cul-de-sac length requirements shall not be eligible for a density bonus.

           b.    Additional connections included in a subdivision design to meet the superblock internal
                 connectivity requirements may be considered as part of a connectivity bonus if the connections
                 are not necessary to meet the connectivity index, block length, and cul-de-sac length
                 requirements.

           c.    The value of additional improvements and property dedicated to Lehi City for streets shall
                 serve as the basis to determine the allowable density bonus.

                                                   37-12 Connectivity Standards
     6. Sidewalk Standards. All new single family and multi-family residential developments shall provide
     sidewalks on both sides of public and private streets.

F. Bike and Pedestrian Connectivity Standards. All residential and non-residential developments and
subdivisions shall meet the following standards:

     1. In cases where cul-de-sacs have one or two rows of lots between the end of the cul-de-sac and an
     external road, a hard surface pedestrian shared use path connection shall be provided with a minimum
     width of 10 feetto match the sidewalk or trail width being connected. A minimum sevenfive-foot
     landscaped area shall be provided on both sides of the walkway connecting to the external street (see
     Figure 157).




Figure 157. Sidewalk connection from cul-de-sac connects to an external collector road.                         Commented [MW1]: Show an example with the ramps
                                                                                                                connecting to the street.
     2. Pedestrian connections shall be utilized to connect proposed developments to master planned
     shared use pathtrails and adjacent existing or future developments where applicable. Connections shall
     be of a hard surface with a minimum width of ten feet including landscaped shoulders on each side of
     at least five feet in width. Trail aAccess spacing to master planned shared use paths shall not exceed
     600 feet.

     3. Sidewalks and shared use pathstrails shall interconnect all units, buildings, and streets within a
     development, and shall provide connectivity to existing adjacent development or future development
     areas.

     4. ADA ramps shall be provided at all points a sidewalk crosses a street, parking lot drive isle, or at
     any point there is a grade change between two surfaces.

G. Nonresidential Connectivity Standards. All new nonresidential subdivisions containing the dedication
of public roads shall meet the following connectivity index and block length standards. Private roads shall
meet the requirements of this section; however, a public road may be required to prevent a private road in
a subdivision from stubbing into a future or existing public road.

     1. Required Connectivity Index. The minimum required connectivity index score shall be a minimum
     of 1.5 for nonresidential developments, a minimum of 1.8 for stacked and horizontal mixed use
     developments, and 2.0 for transit-oriented developments.

           a.   The required connectivity index may be reduced if the applicant provides clear and convincing
                evidence that it is impracticable to achieve due to:


                                                   37-13 Connectivity Standards
          i. road grades that exceed ten percent;

         ii. Jordan River;

         iii. Utah Lake;

         iv. delineated wetlands;

          v. other significant natural and historic features such as Dry Creek or the Waste Ditch
             drainage channel;

         vi. existing adjacent development;

        vii. rail corridors; or

        viii. limited access roadways.

   b.    Reductions in the required connectivity index shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and
         shall require positive recommendations from the reviewing departments and Planning
         Commission and approval by the City Council.

   c.    The total allowed reduction to the required connectivity index will be based on an analysis of
         existing conditions that prevent connections. As part of the analysis, City staff will ensure the
         internal connectivity of the subdivision meets the required connectivity index and that
         connectivity is provided to adjacent properties where possible.

2. Maximum Block Lengths. Maximum block lengths allowed shall be required based on the project
development type as identified on the following table of maximum block lengths:

                  Development Type                                       Block Length
 Regional Retail, Office/Warehouse, Manufacturing,               1,000 feet street block length
     Technical Manufacturing, and Warehouse
                     Distribution
           All other nonresidential uses                         800 feet street block length
  Mixed use (stacked and horizontal), Urban Tech            600 feet street block length and 400 ft.
      Mixed Use District, and transit-oriented                     pedestrian block length
                   developments

   a. Increase in Block Length. The maximum allowed block length may be increased if the
      applicant provides clear and convincing evidence that it is impracticable to achieve due to:

          i. road grades that exceed ten percent;

         ii. Jordan River;

         iii. Utah Lake;

         iv. delineated wetlands;

          v. other significant natural and historic features such as Dry Creek or the Waste Ditch

                                    37-14 Connectivity Standards
              drainage channel;

          vi. existing adjacent development;

         vii. rail corridors; or

         viii. limited access roadways.

    b. Increases in block length will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and shall require
       recommendations from the reviewing departments and Planning Commission and approval by
       the City Council.

3. Cul-de-sac Standards. Cul-de-sacs shall not be allowed in any nonresidential zone.

    a.    Cul-de-sacs may only be allowed if applicant provides clear and convincing evidence that a
          cul-de-sac is necessary to develop the entire parcel due to:

           i. road grades that exceed ten percent;

          ii. Jordan River;

          iii. Utah Lake;

          iv. delineated wetlands;

           v. other significant natural and historic features such as Dry Creek or the Waste Ditch
              drainage channel;

          vi. existing adjacent development;

         vii. rail corridors; or

         viii. limited access roadways.

    b.    Requests for cul-de-sacs within nonresidential zones will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis
          and shall require positive recommendations from the reviewing departments and Planning
          Commission and approval by the City Council.

4. Cross Access. Nonresidential and multi-family residential site plans shall provide pedestrian and
vehicular cross-access to adjacent developments to allow auto and pedestrian trips to occur between
developments (see Figure 158). Where two adjacent parcels have access to the same shared drive aisle
or local street, then vehicular cross access is not required.




                                     37-15 Connectivity Standards
Figure 158. Adjacent nonresidential uses provide cross-access which reduces trips required on the surrounding streetsroads.


     5. Nonresidential to Residential Connections. New nonresidential and multi-family residential site
     plans shall:

           a.    connect all existing street and pedestrian walkway stubs to proposed streets and walkways
                 within the site plan. If a connection creates an incompatible traffic pattern due to proximity to
                 the connection to a commercial loading dock, the connection may be modified to a 10-foot
                 wide bike and pedestrian connection only. Requests for a modification will be considered on a
                 case-by-case basis and shall require review by the reviewing departments and approval by the
                 Planning Commission. A modification request will not be considered if the adjacent road is an
                 arterial.

           b.    extend all existing street stubs through a proposed nonresidential or multi-family site plan to
                 an adjacent collector or arterial street (see Figure 159); and




Figure 159. Local street stub connects a residential subdivision through a commercial site to an adjacent arterial street.


           c.    stub roads to abutting vacant properties shall be spaced not to exceed 1,000 feet as measured
                 along the property line of the proposed site plan (refer to Figure 155). The maximum stub road
                 spacing may be increased if the applicant provides clear and convincing evidence that it is
                 impracticable to achieve due to the following limitations:

                  i. road grades that exceed ten percent

                 ii. Jordan River;

                iii. Utah Lake;

                iv. delineated wetlands;

                                                          37-16 Parking Standards
        v. other significant natural and historic features such as Dry Creek or the Waste Ditch
           drainage channel;

       vi. requirements for a secure campus;

       vii. existing adjacent development;

      viii. rail corridors; and

       ix. limited access roadways.

6. Low Traffic Neighborhood Circulation Improvements. The City may consider improvements that
deter through vehicular traffic on local streets in residential areas where the existing vehicular traffic
volumes either currently exceed 2,500 trips per day or are projected to exceed 2,500 trips per day as
shown in a recent traffic study.
         a. Improvements that may be considered include the following:                                       Formatted
                    i. Closure of direct street connections;                                                 Formatted
                   ii. Modal filters;
                 iii. Traffic calming features;
                  iv. Access management improvements; or
                   v. Other features that reduce vehicle traffic volumes and speeds as recommended by
                       the City Traffic Engineer.
         b. Where street closures are proposed, connectivity shall be maintained for people walking,
              biking, or using other human powered mobility devices. Access shall be maintained for
              emergency vehicles and any necessary utility maintenance vehicles.
         6.c. Approval of low traffic neighborhood circulation improvements allows for exceptions to         Formatted
              applicable connectivity requirements. Proposed exceptions to other connectivity standards
              will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and shall require review from the reviewing
              departments, recommendation from the Planning Commission following a public hearing,
              and approval by the City Council.                                                              Formatted: Font: (Default) Times New Roman




                                       37-17 Parking Standards
