                      GARDEN PARK PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant       Adam Albrecht
                           Meeting Date        September 11, 2025
                Requested Action/Purpose       Public hearing, review, and recommendation for a proposed preliminary
                                               subdivision
                           Decision Type       Administrative
                                Location       Approximately 500 South Center Street
       Existing General Plan Designation       LDR
                         Existing Zoning       R-1-Flex (Recently changed)
                      Existing Land Use        Undeveloped
                   Number of Lots/Units        4 lots
          Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North A-1                    Single family residential
                                                  South A-1                    Railroad
                                                   East RA-1                   Single family residential
                                                   West A-1                    Single family residential
                      Date of DRC Review       August 20, 2025
                        Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and recommendation or final approval
                            City Council       Final approval (Only for PUD, PRD, TOD, or Planned Community)


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code, in-
cluding review by the Reviewing Departments, and review and approval by the Planning Commission following a
public hearing.

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has
been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872              This property was part of the original incorporated boundaries of Lehi City.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval of the Garden Park preliminary subdivision, a four-lot single family residential
subdivision located at approximately 500 South Center Street. This report will discuss the layout of the subdivision
and the DRC comments.




Garden Park Preliminary Subdivision
Layout

The proposed subdivision is on 1.29 acres of property. All of the lots meet the requirements of the R-1-Flex zone.
The R-1-Flex zone has a minimum lot size requirement of 8,000 square feet, which each of the lots easily exceed,
ranging in size from 11,079 to 16,841 square feet. Each lot has 80 feet of frontage as well. Two of the lots front onto
500 South and the other two lots will front onto Center Street.

DRC Comments

There were 11 redline comments from the DRC, including:

1.    Is the subdivision going to be named Garden Park or Albrecht Subdivision? If it is Garden Park then can we change
      the plat plan to say Garden Park instead of Albrecht?
2.    We need to have the plat notes that say no floor slabs below existing grade.
3.    Update setbacks to reflect the R-1- Flex zone

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Subdivisions are administrative items. If they meet the Code requirements they must be approved.

The public may speak to this item but they should recognize that this item will not be denied. The public may want to
bring up concerns or items the Planning Commission may not be aware of.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed preliminary subdivision. Any motion should
include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
           gards to subdivision approvals.
      2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Garden Park Preliminary Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                            August 20, 2025

                                             Garden Park Preliminary Subdivision
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Adam Albrecht- requests preliminary subdivision review of Garden Park, a 4-lot residential development located at 515
South 100 West.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Adam Albrecht
Date of Plans Reviewed: 8/13/25
Time Start: 1:07 pm
Time End: 1:14 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Jake/Glade – Power:
1. Power details for trench and riser pole were not included. 4.2.1, 4.2.2, 4.1.6
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
2. Provide 4' separation from existing 4'' culinary line to edge of MH
3. Add a note for lot 1&2 That 4'' sewer laterals will be installed on top of existing 30'' sewer main.
James – Parks:
Gary S./Arnie – Building/Inspections:
4. Is the subdivision going to be named Garden Park or Albrecht Subdivision? If it is Garden Park then can we change the
    plat plan to say Garden Park instead of Albrecht?
5. We need to have the plat notes that say no floor slabs below existing grade.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E./Luke – Engineering:
6. Use Lehi Detail RD-06 instead of RD-07
7. Provide separation for the SD box information so it can be read. (CG-101)
8. The W10-1 railroad crossing warning sign needs to be 36"x36' and have a "no train horn" plaque below(W10-9P) that
    is 30"x24".
9. Railroad crossing road pavement markings need to be replaced onto the new asphalt.
Kim – Planning:
10. Update setbacks to reflect the R-1- Flex zone
11. For final use standard template

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)

ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
   improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
   supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
   necessary supplies for the development.
5. A reimbursement agreement will be needed for the extra ROW and pavement along Center Street
6. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
   process.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                            August 20, 2025

7.  Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
8.  Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
9. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
10. Address any comments or conditions from Planning Commission approval of the preliminary
11. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Submit a title report to the planner over the project for review.
4. Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
   property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.
5. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
6. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.
STAFF
7. Send a digital copy of the plat to the County for review prior to accepting printed mylar.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON SEPTEMBER 11, 2025.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
