                         VISTAS AT THE POINT AMENITIES REVISION
                                          PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant                    Clyde Capital Group
                           Meeting Date                    September 11, 2025
              Requested Action/Purpose                     Approval of proposed revisions to the approved amenities
                          Decision Type                    Administrative
                               Location                    Approximately Traverse Mountain Blvd and Mountain Point Blvd
                        Existing Zoning                    Transit Oriented Development (TOD)
      General Plan Land Use Designation                    Transit Oriented Development (TOD)
                      Existing Land Use                    Vistas at the Point (under construction)
                    Date of DRC Review                     April 30, 2025
                       Assigned Planner                    Brittney Harris

                                                          REQUIRED ACTION
                        Planning Commission                Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.260. Site Plan Approval Process.
Permitted Uses.
       1. Site plans associated with a permitted use require review an approval by the Reviewing Departments. Site
    Plans requesting exceptions to Code requirements require approval by the Planning Commission for the requested
    exceptions. The Reviewing Departments may require that the approval of a site plan be forwarded to the Planning
    Commission if they determine the standards in the Development Code are unclear, or that the project is likely to
    have extenuating or unforeseen impacts beyond what would normally be expected on issues such as traffic,
    lighting, or compatibility of uses.

                                           TABLE 37.070
                        MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT AMENITIES REQUIREMENTS
                                                                   (Amended 01/10/23)


      # UNITS          PICNIC              SPORTS            PLAYGROUND/                   CLUB HOUSE             POOL/TENNIS
                       AREA                COURT               DOG PARK                                         COURT/SPLASH PAD
      10-30               2                   1                    1                              -                     -
      31-50               4                   1                    2                              -                     -
      51-100              6                   1                    2                     1 – Min 750 Sq. Ft.            -
      101-200             8                   1                    3                     1 – Min 750 Sq. Ft.            1
      201-300            10                   2                    4                     1 – Min 750 Sq. Ft.            1
      301-400            12                   2                    5                    1 – Min 1,500 Sq. Ft.           2
      401-500            14                   2                    6                    1 – Min 1,500 Sq. Ft.           2
      501+               16                   2                    7                    1 – Min 2,000 Sq. Ft.           2
         *Amenities may be combined into upgraded amenities at the discretion of the Planning Commission.


Section 37.020. Multi-Family Residential Design Standards.
Amenities. Each multi-family project with ten units or more shall include amenities for the residents of the project as
per Table 37.080 of the Development Code. Because each project will be different in nature, the amenities are likely
to be different. The amount of amenities required shall be in proportion to the proposed number of units in the
development. The required number of amenities is listed in Table 37.080 Multi-Family Development Amenities
Requirements. Amenities shall be provided according to project size or comparable equivalent amenities as required
or recommended by the Planning Commission and, as approved by the City Council, if required.



  PROPERTY HISTORY


Vistas at the Point Amenities Revisions
December 12, 2017          City Council approved a general plan amendment to add a TOD land use designation

April 23, 2019             City Council approved the Vistas at the Point Concept Plan

August 31, 2020            Property came into Lehi as part of the Goulding Annexation

August 26, 2021            The Planning Commission approved the Vistas at the Point Preliminary Subdivision and
                           substitution of amenities

September 7, 2021          City Council approved the Vistas at the Point Preliminary Subdivision

May 8, 2025                Planning Commission tabled this amenity revision


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of revisions to the approved amenities for the Vistas at the Point Transit Oriented
Development Project. This previously came to the Planning Commission on May 8, 2025. The applicant has made
some updates to their request and provided more details.

Previously the applicant requested removal of the amphitheater. Their updated request seeks to change the
amphitheater to a dog park. The applicant provided justification for this proposal in their narrative and provided a
conceptual layout of the park.

The applicant also provided a conceptual layout for the overlook park on the trail. The overlook park was part of
the original amenity approval. Both of these will require site plan approval before construction and City Staff will
ensure they meet all Code requirements for the dog park.

The Planning Commission originally approved a substitution of amenities on August 26, 2021. With 404 apartment
and townhome units the applicant needed to provide 14 picnic areas, 2 sports courts, 6 playgrounds/dog parks, a
clubhouse at least 1,500 square feet in size and 2 pools, tennis courts, or splash pads. The applicant proposed the
regional trail through their site with an overlook park at the top, a clubhouse, and an amphitheater.

The Planning Commission makes the decision on approving any substitutions to the required amenities, including
this removal of the amphitheater. In doing so the Planning Commission should consider if the proposed dog park
provides a similar or greater benefit to the Vistas at the Point community.

The included DRC comments were based on the first submittal and do not reflect the updated plans.


  MINUTES FROM PREVIOUS REVIEW

2.5) Consideration of Clyde Capital Group’s request for revisions to the Vistas at the Point Amenities removing
the amphitheater from their required amenities.

Brittney Harris presented the item. Code that allows substitution of amenities was passed in 2021. The applicant is
requesting removing the amphitheater, but will still build the clubhouse and an overlook park. Staff has concerns over
just removing the amphitheater as it gets rid of a community gathering place and no substitutions were suggested.

Commissioner Everett asked if any other amenities has been put in yet. Harris explained that the trail is in, but as the
development is under construction, no other amenities are completed at this time.

Ryan Christofferson was present representing Clyde Capital Group. They would like to put a pocket park in the
development rather than the amphitheater, as they are unsure the space would be used.

Commissioner Everett clarified that the plan was to add an additional park. Christofferson confirmed. A concept plan
for the park has been submitted to the city. The park would be in a different place than the planned spot for the




Vistas at the Point Amenities Revisions
amphitheater. Commissioner Everett asked if wind studies had been taken into consideration with the new location.
Christofferson clarified that the main driver of getting rid of the amphitheater is cost, not the wind study from the flight
park.

Commissioner Kunze asked if the park would be the same size as the amphitheater was planned to be. Christofferson
explained it would be a fit-in park that utilizes the natural environment. They are planning on having grassless
landscaping and including bench swings.

Commissioner Eyre explained that it felt as though the rug was being pulled out from under the city. He asked
Christofferson to explain how it would help the city. Christofferson explained that the amphitheater may not be used by
the neighborhood. Commissioner Everett asked what the factors behind this assertion were. Christofferson explained
that the company felt they could do something more interesting once the wind studies came out from the flight park.
Mike West mentioned that the apartment builder had already made some changes to the initial plan, and Harris
explained that the wind study threw a few wrenches in the original plan. The preliminary plan was approved, but the
city encouraged working with the flight park to minimize impact. Harris clarified for the Commission that they have
discretion as to what qualifies as a community area.

Commissioner Lockhart asked if it would be more restrictive for the applicant to table the issue or deny it, if the
Commission felt there needed to be more work done. Harris recommended tabling it.

Commissioner Eyre didn’t like that a more accessible amenity was being replaced with a less accessible amenity.
Commissioner Lockhart agreed, mentioning that she didn’t like compromising a TOD, as they are already controversial.

Commissioner Kunze shared a question from Kim Struthers and asked if the clubhouse also served the townhomes. She
explained that if it didn’t, it wouldn’t count as a townhome amenity.

Commissioner Jackson shared the feeling that it felt like the developer was trying to pull the rug out from under the
city. He shared that he thinks the plan needs more work.

                  Motion: Commissioner Lockhart moved to table the item with the findings that the proposed
                  amenities do not meet the intent and requirements of the TOD zone, and that the Commission would
                  like to give the applicant an opportunity to revise the plan in a timely manner so that they have time to
                  identify the pieces that make up a TOD and incorporate them into the amenities appropriately. She
                  included all DRC comments. She left it open to the applicant to work with staff until they found
                  something satisfactory. Commissioner Kunze seconded.

                  Vote: Commissioner Everett, yes. Commissioner Lockhart, yes. Commissioner Eyre, yes.
                  Commissioner Jackson, yes. Commissioner Kunze, yes.

                  Motion passed unanimously.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed site plan. Any motion should include findings.
Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed amenities are/ are not of equivalent value to the amenities required by the Code.
    2.   The proposed amenities meet/ do not meet the intent and requirements of the TOD zone.
    3.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public meeting.




Vistas at the Point Amenities Revisions
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           April 30, 2025

                                                  Vistas at the Point Amenities
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Clyde Capital Group- requests review of revisions to the Vistas at the Point Preliminary Subdivision plans removing the
amphitheater amenity.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: none
Date of Plans Reviewed: 04/22/25
Time Start: 3:24pm
Time End: 3:26pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks:
1. The assessment is that the amended amenities proposed in this document are not equivalent and vary significantly from
    the original approved amenities package.
2. We typically call this a sidewalk.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
3. The Golding Annexation Development Agreement/ Vistas at the Point TOD Land Use Plan states that the trail would
    be required to go through the development. It also includes this statement.

     Owners shall ensure that the design of any development meets the intent of a TOD which is pedestrian friendly and
     enhances the opportunity of gathering and interactions. and building of community within the open spaces.

     Removing the amphitheater will eliminate a key gathering place in the TOD. What will be put in place of the
     amphitheater? This also creates a building free buffer between the buildings and flight park.
4.   Trail connections are required for all developments next to master planned trails.
5.   Retaining walls are not usually considered an amenity.
6.   Does the apartment clubhouse serve the townhomes? If not it should not be counted for the townhome amenity
     requirement.
7.   The square footage of the clubhouse includes a lot of square footage that is not usable space by the residents. With
     what is listed and the square footage, it seems like a pretty standard clubhouse, pool, etc. Not above and beyond the
     code requirement.



THIS ITEM IS SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON MAY 8th




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Lehi City Planning Commission,

We are pleased to present this proposal on behalf of Geneva Rock Products for an updated
amenity plan in our forthcoming Lehi residential community, which includes 304 apartments and
100 townhomes. After thoughtful consideration and research, we ask that the originally planned
amphitheater be replaced with a dog park and a scenic overlook park. Please see the included
concepts and planned layout.

At Clyde Capital Group part of our Vision statement is to produce sustainable
community assets we can enjoy and share with others for generations. Our vision is grounded in
creating usable, inviting spaces that bring joy and utility in every season. An amphitheater tends
to be highly dependent on nice weather, scheduled events, and is more season-limited, especially
in colder months when attendance drops. In contrast, a dog park and a passive overlook park
offer daily, year-round access, including during winter. Dog parks are often noted as among the
most reliably active community spaces throughout the year. In Utah roughly 36 percent of
households have a dog.

This isn't a hypothetical advantage, statistics bear it out. Approximately 85 percent of dog parks
remain open year-round. Dog owners visit dog parks on average 2 to 3 times per week, and
22 percent include dog park visits in their weekly routines, even during colder months. In
addition, dog parks significantly boost social and mental health and 91 percent of Americans
believe dog parks benefit their communities.

Economically and socially, the merits are equally strong. Residential areas near dog parks see
property values rise by around 2 to 6 percent and up to 12 percent in some cases. Beyond
monetary gains, dog parks build community networks: neighbors meet and forge relationships
while their dogs play, and in some parks, community advocacy groups form to maintain and
enliven the space.

Likewise, the inclusion of an overlook enhances the benefit of open space in the slope north and
east of development. I have always enjoyed watching the paragliders and hang gliders when I
have found myself in that area and I imagine this Overlook Park full of community members
enjoying the elevated views and spectating the neighboring recreators. Additionally, exposure to
natural, elevated viewing areas supports stress reduction, encourages walking and reflection, and
can raise property values. Together, the dog park and overlook create a versatile network of
amenities that elevate daily life for residents of all ages, regardless of season.

In our community of 404 homes, we anticipate the dog park will attract a substantial number of
regular users, both canine and human, throughout the year. Its off-leash design welcomes pet
owners in all seasons. The overlook park complements this by drawing families, individuals, and
neighbors into an accessible, contemplative space that fosters health, social engagement, and
peaceful enjoyment, even when the amphitheater would lie dormant.

We believe these amenities will deliver enduring value beyond the original proposed
amphitheater. These community assets ensure constant activation, social cohesion, and aesthetic
richness, benefiting both our residents and the city at large.
We look forward to expanding on this in person and appreciate the Commission's thoughtful
consideration of this improved amenity plan.

Warm regards,
Clyde Capital Group
Clayton Rackham, Project Manager
