     MOTO UNITED SITE PLAN REVISION WITH EXCEPTION FOR 8
                         FOOT FENCE
                                PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                            Applicant        Colby Anderson
                         Meeting Date        September 11, 2025
            Requested Action/Purpose         Approval of a proposed site plan
                        Decision Type        Administrative
                             Location        405 S Mill Pond Drive
                      Existing Zoning        C (Commercial)
    General Plan Land Use Designation        C (Commercial)
                    Existing Land Use        Future Moto United Building
       Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North C-H                    Office/Warehouse
                                                South C                      Undeveloped
                                                 East C                      I-15
                                                 West C-H                    Office/Warehouse
                    Date of DRC Review       August 20, 2025
                      Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                           REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.260. Site Plan Approval Process.
Permitted Uses.
       1. Site plans associated with a permitted use require review an approval by the Reviewing Departments. Site
    Plans requesting exceptions to Code requirements require approval by the Planning Commission for the requested
    exceptions. The Reviewing Departments may require that the approval of a site plan be forwarded to the Planning
    Commission if they determine the standards in the Development Code are unclear, or that the project is likely to
    have extenuating or unforeseen impacts beyond what would normally be expected on issues such as traffic,
    lighting, or compatibility of uses.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

October 29, 1985           The City Council approved the Southeast No. 2 Addition.

March 31, 2020             The City Council approved the New Star Commercial Development Final Subdivision.

January 9, 2025            The Planning Commission approved the Moto United Site Plan.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and approval of a revision to the Moto Unite site plan, requesting an exception to the
Development Code to have an eight-foot-tall CMU security fence along the northern property line. This report will
outline the requested exception and the DRC comments.

Exception




Moto United Site Plan with Fence Exception
There is one exception to the Development Code being requested for the site. The Code requires the following:

Fences, walls, and hedges shall not exceed six feet in height, unless otherwise required by Code, approval by the
Land Use Authority, or an exception is granted according to the following:

           (a) An exception will be granted if a fence higher than six feet and no more than eight feet in height is
           needed to enjoy a similar level of privacy a six-foot fence would normally provide but does not suffice
           due to differences in grade or if safety conditions require a taller fence. The exception will be reviewed by
           the reviewing departments and approved by the Zoning Administrator.

           (b) An exception can also be granted for other reasons, but the applicant bears the burden of proof that
           extra height is justified and shall be reviewed by the reviewing departments and may be approved by the
           Planning Commission following a public hearing.

Staff feels comfortable with the exception request because the justification is that it is for security to the backside
of their lot, which is planned to be a space for loading and unloading recreational vehicles. The taller fence will
serve to protect inventory.

DRC Comments
There were two comments from the DRC, including the following:

1.    Cross access is still required unless the City's proposed code amendment is approved by City Council that only
      requires cross access when the road is a collector or arterial. (add note to clarify that Code needs to be approved for
      the change)
2.    The 8’ foot fence will require approval of an exception by the Planning Commission.

Please consider all DRC comments in the motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Site Plans are administrative items that must be approved if they meet the Development Code requirements. This
site plan requests exceptions. The Planning Commission should determine if the intent of the Code is met and these
exceptions should be granted. This is not a public hearing item.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed site plan. Any motion should include
findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or
           improvements in the vicinity and will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, general welfare or
           convenience.
      2.   The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and
           policies of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
      3.   That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate
           size and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner
           that it will not be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
      4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public meeting.




Moto United Site Plan with Fence Exception
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           August 20, 2025

                                                Moto United Site Plan Revisions
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Colby Anderson- requests review of revisions to the Moto United Site Plan located at 405 S Millpond Dr.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Colby Anderson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 8/13/25
Time Start: 1:17 pm
Time End: 1:25 pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No support from Power for the requested revision.
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S./Arnie – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic:
Kim – Planning:
1. Cross access is still required unless the City's proposed code amendment is approved by City Council that only requires
    cross access when the road is a collector or arterial. (add note to clarify that Code needs to be approved for the change)
2. The 8’ foot fence will require approval of an exception by the Planning Commission.


THIS ITEM IS SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON SEPTEMBER 11, 2025.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
