                                LIFE TIME CONCEPT EXCEPTION
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant        Life Time Fitness
                          Meeting Date         September 25, 2025
              Requested Action/Purpose         Approval of an exception with a concept plan
                         Decision Type         Administrative
                               Location        Approximately 210 East Traverse Terrace Drive
                           Project Area        Approximately 10.52 acres
                        Existing Zoning        Planned Community (PC)
      General Plan Land Use Designation        Mixed-Use (MU)
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North PC (MU)              Undeveloped
                                                  South PC (Open space) Trail, buffer, SR-92
                                                   East PC (Open space) Texas Instruments’ Buffer
                                                   West PC (MU)              Undeveloped
                      Date of DRC Review       September 3, 2025
                        Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission       Public hearing, review, and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.

Section 37.010. Nonresidential Design Standards.
General Nonresidential Design District
a. Site design standards:

     i. Building orientation:

         1. Buildings shall be oriented toward the adjacent public or private street with no off-street parking or
             drive aisles located between the building and street sidewalk (see Figure 131).


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of an exception to the building location for a proposed Life Time Fitness to be
located at approximately 210 East Traverse Terrace Drive.

The General nonresidential design requirements require the building be located near the street with no parking
between the building and the street. This would require the building to be located near Traverse Terrace Drive. The
applicant would like to place the building near Timpanogos Highway. The parking is shown between the road and
the building. However, the proposed building location is right next to a planned trail corridor. The intent of having
the building located near the street is to allow for pedestrian access. The trail will provide good pedestrian access.

The DRC reviewed the proposed concept plan. The comments relate more to the future site plan then the exception.




Life Time Concept Plan Exception
 SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Concept plans with exceptions are an administrative item. The Planning Commission does have some discretion on
whether to grant the exception or not.

The public can also speak on this item but all comments should focus on the proposed exception.


 POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve, approve with modifications, or deny the proposed concept plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1. The proposed concept exception will still allow pedestrian access to the building.
    2. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
    3. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    4. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Life Time Concept Plan Exception
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         September 3, 2025

                                                 Life Time Fitness Concept Plan
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Life Time- requests review of the Life Time Fitness Concept Plan located at approximately 210 East Traverse Terrace
Drive.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Ben Tuckett, Justin Schmidt, Dan Beavers
Date of Plans Reviewed: 8/20/25
Time Start: 1:26pm
Time End: 1:33pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade (gkirkham@lehi-ut.gov) – Power: No comments
Garion (growett@lehi-ut.gov) – Fire:
Ryan (rallred@lehi-ut.gov)– Water/Sewer:
James – Parks:
Gary S. (gsmith@lehi-ut.gov)– Building/Inspections:
Shelbey – Public Works:
Gary E. (gellis@lehi-ut.gov) – Engineering:
Luke- Traffic:
FYI Traverse Terrace Drive roadway cross-section must meet one of the Skye Area Plan cross-sections.
Kim – Planning:
 1. This building location will require an exception from the Planning Commission that may be granted with the concept
     or site plan. Planning Staff supports this exception with the building oriented towards the trail/greenway which meets
     the goal of increasing walkability through the building orientation.

Comments for the Site Plan
   a. Line extension required. See Bluebeam for possible routing.
   b. Provide easements for dry utilities.
   c. Indicate power service size and location.
   d. Provide power load work sheet. https://www.lehi-ut.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/LoadEstimatorSheet.pdf
   e. Is this round about partially mountable?
   f. For reference: 8'' C-900 culinary main, 10'' C-900 pi main, 12'' sewer main, 24'' storm drain in center street.
      Existing channel will have to be piped across road it picks up flows from inverness
   g. TI is in the design of new sewer main going threw this area. contact HAL for alignment
   h. If this moves past concept, the project will need to meet landscaping requirements including open space, and tree
      requirements.
   i. A soil report will be required if this moves past concept.
   j. SWPPP will be required prior to precon
   k. SSOMP (formerly LTSWMP) will be required prior to precon
   l. 80th percentile stormwater retention will be required at site plan
   m. Consider removing this conflict on the entry sidewalk and either adding more landscape or could do more parking.
   n. 20% of the first floor facade facing the street shall consist of glass. Provide calculations with the site plan.

         Each building facade shall include at least three of the following features:

         a.columns or pilasters;

         b.decorative cornice;

         c.awnings or canopies;


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         September 3, 2025


         d.covered walkways;

         e.decorative lighting;

         f.string course of differing color or material;

         g.wainscot of a minimum 30 inches in height except for under windows; and

         h.other comparable architectural features as approved by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission.

    o.   Consider a raised crosswalk or table top in front of your building entrance to help slow drivers down and establish
         better priority for people accessing the building.
    p.   Consider including pedestrian access through the center parking aisle that leads to the front door.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).

THIS ITEM IS REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.
(An exception requires stamped addressed envelopes for public noticing if the project proceeds to Planning Commission)

THIS CONCEPT PLAN WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION SEPTEMBER 25th




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
             Project Narrative
                   Life Time – Lehi, UT
                         March 04, 2025

                       Prepared by:
                         Life Time
                   2900 Corporate Place
                  Chanhassen, MN 55317


2900 Corporate Place | Chanhassen, MN 55317 | 952.229.7521 | www.lt.life
March 04, 2025


RE:    Life Time – Lehi, UT
       Concept Plan
       Project Narrative


LIFE TIME
Founded in 1992, Life Time champions a Healthy Way of Life for our members across more
than 175 destinations across 31 states, one Canadian province, and 43 major markets. Life
Time delivers an unmatched athletic country club experience and provides a
comprehensive healthy living, healthy aging and healthy entertainment experience that goes
beyond fitness to encompass the entire spectrum of daily life for individuals, couples and
families.

Life Time destinations across the U.S. and Canada offer distinctive, branded programs and
services including: signature group training through GTX, Alpha, DPT, and Ultra Fit. Life
Time also offers Pilates, cycle and yoga classes, swim programming and pickleball.
Locations offer full-service spas, cafes, and kids programming. Life Time sponsors run,
cycle and triathlon events and is committed to engaging the community in working towards
healthy living as a team.

DEVELOPMENT PLAN
The proposed Life Time will feature approximately 103,000 square feet of health and
wellness amenities and employ over 150 people in full and part-time positions.
Life Time proposes to construct a ground up facility and create two stories of high-end
health, wellness, and fitness amenities for Lehi residents and community members. Upon
entering, there is a grand reception desk where members are greeted and checked in.
Adjacent to the central reception area, the café and lounge create a sophisticated, high-end
presence at the entrance of the athletic resort. Members enjoy luxurious locker rooms with
free towel service, have access to a variety of Group Fitness classes, a resort-style pool deck
and recovery amenities including hydromassage, cryobeds, and cold plunges. Every aspect
of our club is designed to make highly convenient and accessible amenities to use and
enjoy. The mix of programs are unique to each community and illustrate Life Time’s
commitment to designing, building, and operating Clubs to meet each community’s desires
and needs.



                      2900 Corporate Place | Chanhassen, MN 55317 | 952.229.7521 | www.lt.life
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN
Like all other Life Time resort locations, this facility will feature premium four-sided
architecture consisting of decorative stacked brick, and high-quality stone accents. The
elevations show articulating depth and dimension, where glazing is included throughout, on
both the first and second floors and on all sides of the building. The entryway is pedestrian
scaled, with a large canopy. The architectural design extends to the site where an expansive
pergola above the Bistro seating area flanks the pool deck.

SITE CONTEXT
The site is a part of the Skye Area Plan, located east of Center Street and south of Traverse
Terrace Drive. Life Time is committed to building a site that is cohesive and complimentary
to the rest of the development. The building is placed centered, on the southern boundary
line, to both engage the adjacent highway and front the primary entry off Traverse Terrace
Drive. A secondary entry is provided along the western boundary for vehicular and
pedestrian flow to and from the adjacent retail. The multiple access points and optimal
parking orientation provide intuitive and efficient routes to the building entrance, and the
provided 632 parking stalls.
The site is thoughtfully organized by considering primary views and existing topography. The
pool deck is strategically placed on the southwest corner of the site to optimize views and
visually widen the adjacent linear park. Pedestrian connectivity is promoted via detached
sidewalks along Traverse Terrace Drive and at the mid-block connection to the west,
integrating the site into the area plan and regional trail system. An above-ground stormwater
basin is located at the southeast corner of the site to work with the natural flow of the existing
topography and responsibly discharge to the adjacent regional retention area to the south.
Using native plantings and intentional design; lush, yet sustainable, landscaping offers a
resort style look and feel upon entering the site.




                       2900 Corporate Place | Chanhassen, MN 55317 | 952.229.7521 | www.lt.life
