                       BULL RIVER GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant          Perry Development
                                 Meeting Date          September 25, 2025
                    Requested Action/Purpose           Approval of an amendment to the General Plan
                                Decision Type          Legislative
                                     Location          Approximately 400 West Bull River Road
                                      Acreage          1.48 acres
                              Existing Zoning          R-1-10
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          Low Density Residential (LDR)
               Proposed Land Use Designation           High Density Residential (HDR)
                            Existing Land Use          Undeveloped Land
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North SR-92              Timpanogos Highway
                                                       South R-1-10             Single Family Homes
                                                         East Commercial        Storage Units
                                                        West R-1-10             Single Family Homes
                             Date of DRC Review        September 3, 2025
                               Assigned Planner        Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                                    City Council       Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval
The Planning Commission should consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a General Plan
amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


 APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT Accommodate a range of housing and neighborhood types suitable for a variety
of lifestyles, ages, affordability levels, and design options




Bull River General Plan Amendment
 PROPERTY HISTORY

May 27, 1999                Northern part of the property annexed into the City as part of the Low Hills Annexation

March 28, 2007              Remainder of the property annexed with the Eagle Ridge Phase 2 Annexation

April 14, 2020              City Council denied a General Plan Amendment from LDR to Commercial for a proposed
                            day care.


 REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation on a proposed General Plan Amendment from Low Density
Residential (LDR) to High Density Residential (HDR) on 1.48 acres located at approximately 400 West Bull River
Road. The current Low Density Residential would allow a maximum of 3.5 units per acre for a maximum of 4 homes.
Those 4 homes could include Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) so the total units would be 8. The proposed High
Density Residential zoning would allow 12 units per acre for a total of 17 units. However, the applicant did show
their proposed layout with 14 townhome units.

The Planning Commission may want to consider the impact adding density here might have on the availability for
density in other areas.


 SCOPE OF APPROVAL

General Plan Amendments are legislative items which means that the Planning Commission can determine if they
think the proposal matches the goals in the Lehi City General Plan and is in the best interest of the community.

The public can share comments on this proposal. Comments focused on specific concerns and impacts or benefits
are the most beneficial.


 POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendment to the General
Plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed amendment will add density in an area where we want/ where we do not want more density.
    2.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provisions
         of the General Plan and its various elements.
    3.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not consistent with the land uses and zoning of nearby and
         adjoining properties.
    4.   The proposed General Plan amendment will/will not have a substantial adverse effect on surrounding prop-
         erty.
    5.   The affected site is/is not physically suitable in terms of design, location, shape, size, operating characteris-
         tics, and the provision of public services to accommodate any potential future uses, including all landscap-
         ing, loading areas, open spaces, parking areas, setbacks, buffering/screening, walls, fences, yards, and other
         required features.
    6.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Bull River General Plan Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         September 3, 2025

                                          Bull River Road General Plan Amendment
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

 Perry Development- requests review of the Bull River Road General Plan Amendment on 1.48 acres located at
 approximately 400 West Bull River Road changing the land use designation from Low Density Residential to High
 Density Residential.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Lynsi Neve
Date of Plans Reviewed: 8/26/25
Time Start: 2:11pm
Time End: 2:18pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. The R-1-10 zoning would allow for up to 4 homes (potentially all with ADUs), the proposed General Plan Amendment
    would allow for up to 17 units (without ADUs). Allowing these units would take away the opportunity for units in
    other areas like TOD or MU areas.

Comments as reference for future development:
   1. A Power Circuit Study will be required to determine if there is sufficient capacity for a density increase.
   2. FYI. Dead ends over 150' in length will require a turnaround.
   3. 8'' sewer main in 425 west.
   4. 20'' pi main. 16'' culinary main, 36'' storm drain in bull river road.
   5. There is no turf allowed in park strips. Update plans to reflect landscaping without turf.
   6. If this passes, please provide a landscaping plan that meets and/or exceeds the Lehi landscaping requirements.
   7. FYI, a pedestrian connection will be required from the cul-de-sac to Bull River to meet the block length
      requirement.




THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON SEPTEMBER 25th




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                                                                August 26, 2025

Eagle Ridge Townhomes – Narrative
Parcel Nos. 11.034.0075, 11.034.0009 and 11.034.0060
Approximately located at 400 W. Bull River Road

We respectfully submit this request for a General Plan Amendment for the three parcels noted in the subject line above totaling approximately
1.48 acres located within Lehi City, currently designated as LDR – Low Density Residential. We propose this amendment to reclassify the
property from the LDR designation to HDR to improve transition with the surrounding context and support a more reasonable residential project
considering the adjacent commercial/industrial development along Bull River Road. The reclassification would support a forthcoming rezoning
request from R-1-10 to R-3, which such submittal would be dependent upon receiving an approval of our subject amendment request.

Currently, the site remains as a remnant undeveloped portion of land that has undergone a number of entitlement attempts for various uses
including commercial, industrial and neighborhood commercial types of uses over the past several years mostly in light of two key factors, Bull
River Road and the adjacent commercial use.
Key neighboring uses include:
• South: R-1-10, Eagle Ridge Residential Subdivision
• East: C-Commercial, Lehi Self Storage
• North: SR-92 / BP/TH-5 – Planned Community
• West: R-1-10, Huntington Heights, Residential Subdivision


As generally mentioned above, we believe that our proposed use would allow for a more thoughtfully transitioned residential product
considering the adjacent residential, commercial and major transportation corridor uses. We are sensitive to the neighboring communicated
desires to maintain view corridors and believe that the included exhibits demonstrate a preserved character of the surrounding area. The site
immediately fronts on Bull River Road, which serves as a frontage road on the south side of SR-92. The proposed development would achieve
access from Bull River Road and would not have any access to the residential neighborhood street to the south (425 W Cul de Sac). We
believe the gain to the overall community in granting this amendment would be that it allows for thoughtful development of a unique infill
property which are commonly left as eyesore remnants specifically because they exist between residential and commercial types of uses. This
proposed amendment supports Lehi City’s long-term vision for smart growth, infill development, and balanced land use while providing much-
needed housing options to meet regional demand and align with the State of Utah housing initiatives.

We thank you in advance for your consideration and look forward to the opportunity to work with the staff and neighbors on this development.


Kindest Regards,

Perry Development

/s/
Lynsi F. Neve
Vice President, Land Entitlements & Acquisitions
