                             LEE GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant        Jordan Lee
                                Meeting Date         September 25, 2025
                     Requested Action/Purpose        Review and recommendation for an amendment to the General
                                                     Plan
                              Decision Type          Legislative
                                   Location          1035 W Main Street
                                    Acreage          0.50 acres
                            Existing Zoning          RA-1
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation          MDR
             Proposed Land Use Designation           Commercial
                          Existing Land Use          Single family residential
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North C                   Undeveloped/Temporary Farmer’s
                                                                               Market
                                                      South RA-1               Single family residential
                                                       East A-1                Single family residential
                                                       West RA-1               Single family residential
                           Date of DRC Review        September 3, 2025
                             Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                                  City Council       Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval
The Planning Commission should consider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a General Plan
amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoin-
         ing properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified
         by the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed
         uses for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amend-
         ment; and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


 PROPERTY HISTORY

June 18, 1980              Property came into the City as part of the Warburton Annexation.




Lee General Plan Amendment
     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of a General Plan Amendment for the property located at 1035
W Main Street, proposing a change in land use designation from Medium Density Residential (MDR) to Commer-
cial on 0.50 acres.

The proposed General Plan amendment is fairly consistent with other recent non-residential General Plan amend-
ments and zone changes approved in the area. The north side of Main Street has the recently constructed Beacon
Pointe mixed-use project that first required a General Plan amendment to Mixed-Use and the area almost immedi-
ately to the West on the General Plan is designated as Neighborhood Commercial and a zone change occurred pre-
viously on 1045 W Main Street to switch it to Neighborhood Commercial.

The applicant indicated plans to develop an office/warehouse building after getting the General Plan amendment
and a future Zone Change approved. The applicant clarified after DRC that the industrial storage space mentioned
in the narrative would all be located indoors.

The Development Review Committee (DRC) had two comments, including the following:

1.    The narrative mentions industrial storage space for vehicles, tools, and equipment. Is this storage inside the build-
      ing? If not, the Table of Uses would not allow this. The Table does allow light office/warehouse (50-50 split).
2.    The General Plan for this is currently MDR rather than the RA-1 zoning they listed. Update the narrative.

Please consider the DRC comments in the motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

General Plan Amendments are legislative items which give the City Council full discretion in whether they approve
them or not. The Planning Commission should consider the proposed amendment’s impact on the area and the
goals and policies outlined in the General Plan.

The public can speak about this item. Comments centered around the General Plan are the most helpful.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed amendment to the General
Plan. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

      1.   The proposed amendment to the Lehi City General Plan is/is not detrimental to the public health, safety,
           and welfare of Lehi City.
      2.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provisions
           of the General Plan and its various elements.
      3.   The proposed General Plan amendment is/is not consistent with the land uses and zoning of nearby and
           adjoining properties.
      4.   The proposed General Plan amendment will/will not have a substantial adverse effect on surrounding
           property.
      5.   The affected site is/is not physically suitable in terms of design, location, shape, size, operating character-
           istics, and the provision of public services to accommodate any potential future uses, including all land-
           scaping, loading areas, open spaces, parking areas, setbacks, buffering/screening, walls, fences, yards, and
           other required features.
      6.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Lee General Plan Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         September 3, 2025

                                                 Lee General Plan Amendment
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Jordan Lee- requests review of the Lee General Plan amendment on 0.50-acres located at 1035 West Main Street,
changing the designation from MDR to Commercial.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: None
Date of Plans Reviewed: 8/20/25
Time Start: 1:03 pm
Time End: 1:08 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments, but for final site plan
         • As per Chapter 18.030.A. “For all sides of the development adjacent to agricultural property, there is a
              minimum fencing requirement of a six-foot high non-climb agricultural fence...”
              This property and adjacent properties are zoned as RA-1 and would thus need a no-climb fence, on those
              correlating sides.
         • As per Section 12.080.B.2
              A landscaped buffer with a minimum width of 12 feet for all one-story buildings with a building height of 20
              feet or less shall be provided...At least 25% of the landscaping shall be evergreen. Deciduous trees shall have
              a minimum caliper of two inch and evergreen trees shall have a minimum height of six feet. Shrubs shall be a
              minimum five-gallon size.
         • If this passes, please provide a landscaping plan that meets and/or exceeds the Lehi landscaping requirements.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. The narrative mentions industrial storage space for vehicles, tools, and equipment. Is this storage inside the building? If
    not, the Table of Uses would not allow this. The Table does allow light office/warehouse (50-50 split).
2. The General Plan for this is currently MDR rather than the RA-1 zoning they listed. Update the narrative.


THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON SEPTEMBER 25, 2025. (NEED
ENVELOPES BEFORE SCHEDULING)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
CFI Realty Zoning Application ​       ​       ​       ​      ​       ​       ​      August 2025



PART I: General Plan Amendment Summary — Residential/Agricultural →
Commercial

(1) Description of Specific Amendment​
 We are requesting an amendment to the General Plan to change the land-use designation of
the subject property from Residential/Agricultural (RA-1) to Commercial. The proposed
amendment supports our plan to develop the property into a multi-use commercial site that
will house offices for multiple business entities within our company, as well as provide
industrial storage space for vehicles, tools, and equipment used by contractors.

(a) Reason & Justification​
 The current RA-1 designation does not allow for the efficient or appropriate use of this property
for our growing business operations. We aim to centralize several of our company’s
divisions—each requiring their own professional office space—while also providing a secured
industrial storage component to support our field teams. The amendment facilitates this mixed
commercial use in a way that reflects current and anticipated needs for small-to-medium-scale
businesses in Lehi.

(b) Consistency with General Plan Goals & Policies​
 The proposed change aligns with Lehi’s General Plan objectives that encourage:

    ●​ Expansion of neighborhood- and community-serving commercial uses​

    ●​ Smart infill development that supports efficient use of infrastructure​

    ●​ Mixed-use flexibility to accommodate evolving economic demands​


This proposal directly supports Lehi’s policy focus on enabling diversified local commerce, as
outlined in the City’s Land Use Element and Economic Development strategies.

(c) Compatibility with Adjacent Land Uses​
 The property is near a mix of low-density residential, light industrial, and commercial
developments. The proposed use—offices and contractor storage—is compatible with this
land-use context and offers a buffer between purely residential zones and heavier commercial
or industrial uses. The design and layout will include visual screening and operational controls
to minimize disruption to neighboring parcels.

(d) Effect on Area Character & Neighboring Properties​
 This amendment will help transition the area into a more business-oriented corridor, consistent
with broader development trends in Lehi. It introduces a modest increase in activity without
negatively impacting residential quality of life or adjacent agricultural holdings. The use of the
property for contractor operations will be managed to avoid noise, traffic, or visual nuisances.




1
CFI Realty Zoning Application ​      ​       ​      ​       ​      ​       ​      August 2025


(e) Public Health, Safety & Welfare Gain​
 The project supports the local economy by creating office space for multiple business
operations, enhancing access to services, and consolidating contractor logistics in a managed,
safe location. These functions reduce traffic from dispersed facilities and increase local
employment opportunities. It also enables more effective land use in line with Lehi’s vision for
corridor-based, community-supporting commercial development.




PART II: General Plan: Map and Location




Current zoning shows the property as RA-1 which is a residential agriculture zone with a 15,000
square foot lot requirement and allowing 2.5 units per acre.




2
CFI Realty Zoning Application ​    ​      ​      ​      ​      ​       ​      August 2025




Our General Plan (Master Plan) shows the future vision as Medium Density Residential with an
8,000 square foot lot requirement and allowing 6 units per acre. We are applying for a zone
change from the current RA-1 zone to the Commercial zone, which is the zone that corresponds
to Lehi’s policy focus on enabling diversified local commerce.




3
