       WARNER TRANSPORT & DIRT STORAGE CONDITIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Jonny Warner
                         Meeting Date         September 25, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        7491 W 8179 N (Approximately 800 E 850 S)
                       Existing Zoning        LI
              General Plan Designation        LI
                    Existing Land Use         Undeveloped
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North LI                        Railway Corridor
                                                 South A-5                       Pioneer Crossing
                                                  East A-5                       Questar Regulator Station
                                                  West A-5                       Single family residential/undevel-
                                                                                 oped
                     Date of DRC Review       August 20, 2025
                       Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.




                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest




     PROPERTY HISTORY

January 20, 1999             Property came into the City as part of the Mill Pond Annexation
April 22, 2025               The Warner Zone Change was approved to change the zoning to LI.

     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of a conditional use approval for Warner Transport and Dirt Storage use located at
7491 West 8179 North (approximately 800 East 850 South).

The applicant is still working through some of the details regarding their site plan infrastructure with Engineering but
requested to be able to move forward to Planning Commission to get approval for the specific use. The proposed use
is considered rock, sand, gravel, and topsoil storage and distribution which is conditional in the Light Industrial zone.
The applicant proposes to use the existing home as office space and then partitioning off the remainder of the site for
various piles of material. The applicant has been working with the adjacent property owners on modifications to the
landscaping buffer as well.

The DRC had 13 comments that primarily relate to the site plan, including the following:

1.    Tree requirement of 30 trees per site acre. Show 30 trees per acre or get exception approved as part of the site
      plan approval by the Planning Commission.




                                                                                                                         2
2.    Add screening treatment and buffering to West, South, and East boundary areas. The landscaped buffer needs to
      run the entire length of the property lines, adjacent to the existing A-5 Agricultural property unless the adjacent
      owners consent in writing and the Planning Commission approves it.
3.    Provide exact numbers on watering the dirt piles, like a minimum number of times a day and more as needed.
4.    All areas with outdoor storage of equipment or materials needs to be screened from 700 S and Pioneer Crossing
      with a 6' high solid fence.
5.    Curb, gutter and sidewalk are required to be installed. Provide sections through curb and gutter and sidewalk
      showing dimensions and new asphalt, base and subbase thickness. Provide a gutter profile. Show asphalt cut
      line and new asphalt cross slopes every 50'.

Please consider the DRC comments in the motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional use applications are administrative. This means if they meet the Code they must be approved. However,
the Planning Commission can put reasonable conditions on the use that are related to potential negative impacts. These
conditions could include things like the orientation of the home, fencing or landscaping requirements.

The public can speak to this item. Comments focused on negative impacts and potential solutions that could mitigate
these impacts are helpful.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed conditional use and site plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
2.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
3.    That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
      and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
      be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
4.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                        3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           August 20, 2025

                                     Warner Transport & Dirt Storage Conditional Use
                                                DRC Redline Comments

Jonny Warner- requests review of a conditional use and site plan with an existing building for Warner Transport & Dirt
Storage located at 7491 W 8179 N (approximately 800 E 850 S).

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Jonny Warner
Date of Plans Reviewed: 08/12/25
Time Start: 1:33 pm
Time End: 2:07 pm

CRITICAL ISSUES:
1. Zone change ordinance needs to be recorded, and water dedication for the Light Industrial Zone is needed before the
   ordinance records and this item gets scheduled for Planning Commission or can obtain a business license.

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks:
1. Tree requirement of 30 trees per site acre. Show 30 trees per acre or get exception approved as part of the site plan
    approval by the Planning Commission.
2. Add screening treatment and buffering to West, South, and East boundary areas. The landscaped buffer needs to run
    the entire length of the property lines, adjacent to the existing A-5 Agricultural property unless the adjacent owners
    consent in writing and the Planning Commission approves it.
3. Show a minimum of 15% landscaping of site.
4. Landscaping buffer must include 25% evergreen trees and shrubs.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
5. Curb, gutter and sidewalk are required to be installed. Provide sections through curb and gutter and sidewalk showing
    dimensions and new asphalt, base and subbase thickness. Provide a gutter profile. Show asphalt cut line and new
    asphalt cross slopes every 50'.
6. Provide a sump at the end of the property to catch the storm water runoff. Include detail SD-09 in the plan set and
    provide the storm drain calculations.
7. Provide a grading plan for the property showing the storm water is retained on site in a retention basin.
8. A reimbursement agreement for the ROW and paving along 700 south (Millpond Road) will be needed prior to a pre-
    construction meeting.
9. Show the location and length of the drive approaches
10. If the existing home is converted to an office, then customer and employee parking should be paved
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
11. Provide exact numbers on watering the dirt piles, like a minimum number of times a day and more as needed.
12. Need to provide documentation from UDEQ to ensure dust mitigation is adequate. (Fugitive dust control plan)
13. All areas with outdoor storage of equipment or materials needs to be screened from 700 S and Pioneer Crossing with a
    6' high solid fence.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)

General Comment:


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           August 20, 2025

    1.   This property was recently rezoned to Light Industrial. Rock, Sand, Gravel, and Topsoil Storage and Distribution
         is currently a conditionally allowed use in the zone.
    2.   The landscaped buffer requirements may be modified as deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission if the
         following conditions apply:
         (a)the adjacent property owner consents in writing to the modification; and
         (b)the adjoining property is identified on the General Plan Land Use Map as a non-residential land use
         designation.
    3.   Applicant needs to obtain a business license from Lehi City and cease any business operations until this approval
         is completed

ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
   must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Reimbursement Agreement for any reimbursable improvement items must be in place.
5. Required water dedication must be completed.
6. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
   process.
7. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
8. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
9. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
   scheduled.

DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.

THIS ITEM WILL CONTINUE TO COORDINATE ON THE WATER DEDICATION. ONCE THE WATER IS
DEDICATED TO FINALIZE THE ZONE CHANGE, THEN THIS CAN BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION.
*(NEED ENVELOPES BEFORE SCHEDULING IF CONDITIONAL USE)


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
