                     THANKSGIVING PARK 70-FOOT FLAGPOLE
                        CONDITIONAL USE AND SITE PLAN
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Thanksgiving Park
                         Meeting Date         October 9, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use and site plan
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        Approximately 3401 North Thanksgiving Way
                          Project Area        Negligible
                       Existing Zoning        Resort Community (RC)
              General Plan Designation        Transportation Oriented Development (TOD)
                    Existing Land Use         Office and roundabout
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use           North Commercial                 I-15 right of way
                                                South RC                         Thanksgiving Park office park
                                                  East Commercial                I-15 right of way
                                                 West RC                         Thanksgiving Park office park
                     Date of DRC Review       September 17, 2025
                       Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.


                                                                                                                       1
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest.


D.     Flagpoles. Flagpoles shall be less than 30 feet in height in residential or agricultural zones and 50 feet in height
in non-residential or Mixed Use zones. Additional height for flagpoles in non-residential zones may be approved by
the Planning Commission as a conditional use.



     PROPERTY HISTORY
August 17, 2012              Property recorded as part of the Thanksgiving Park Plat F commercial subdivision.

May 12, 2025                 Property was recorded as part of the Thanksgiving Point Area Plan.

     REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant is requesting approval for a 70-foot flagpole located at approximately 3401 North Thanksgiving Way.
The flagpole will be located within the roundabout located at 3401 North Thanksgiving Way. The applicant is request-
ing a 70-foot flagpole because it is customary to have the flag be at least as high as the building, or close to the same
height.

This is considered a conditional use according to Chapter 12 of the Development Code. Any flagpole that exceeds 50
feet in height in a non-residential area has to request additional height and provide justification.

There was one DRC comment, stating that a separate building permit would be needed. Please include all DRC com-
ments in your motion.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional uses are administrative items. If they meet the Code they must be approved. However, the Planning Com-
mission can put reasonable conditions on the use to mitigate against potential negative impacts.

This is a public hearing item.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed conditional use and site plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed use, at the proposed location, will/will not be detrimental or injurious to property or improvements
      in the vicinity.
2.    The proposed use will/will not be located and conducted in a manner in compliance with the goals and policies
      of the Lehi City General Plan and the purposes of this Code.
3.    That the property on which the use, building, or other structure is proposed to be established is of adequate size
      and dimensions to permit construction of the facilities and the conduct of the use in such a manner that it will not
      be detrimental to adjoining properties and the area.
4.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                         2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         September 17, 2025

                                               Conditional Use for a 70’ Flagpole
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Thanksgiving Park- requests review of a conditional use for a 70’ flagpole located at 3401 North Thanksgiving Way. Need
envelopes

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Mark Ostebo
Date of Plans Reviewed: 09/10/25
Time Start: 1:50 PM
Time End: 1:55 PM


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Brad – Fiber: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
1. If approved a separate application will be needed for a building permit.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments.
Luke – Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning: No comments.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON OCTOBER 9TH. (PENDING ENVELOPES)

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
The reason for the request is that its customary to have a flag that is at
least as high as the mass of the building, or at least close to it. To have a
flag lower than the building would not be a good representation of the US
Flag.

The reason we're not going taller than the building is that there is so much
car and foot traffic close to the flag, that we also don't want it to be
oversized in an odd manner.
