                                SKYE AREA PLAN AMENDMENT
                              MIXED- USE DESIGN STANDARDS
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                               Applicant       Gardner Company
                            Meeting Date       October 23, 2025
                Requested Action/Purpose       Review and recommendation of a proposed area plan amendment
                           Decision Type       Legislative
                    Date of DRC Review         October 1, 2025
                        Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                    Planning Commission        Review and recommendation
                            City Council       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 06.010 Purpose and Intent.
The intent of the Planned Community Zone and this Chapter is to:

A. Allow the City to encourage and facilitate more detailed and specific planning and analysis for certain areas of
   the City.
B. Establish provisions and requirements which enable the City to address unique areas of the City or where other
   characteristics exist that warrant a comprehensive set of land use policies and standards which will encourage
   an efficient and imaginative development pattern.
C. Provide an opportunity for flexibility from the constraints of traditional zoning and allow for development on a
   performance basis. Higher density and intensity of uses may be achieved as higher quality development and
   performance standards are implemented within the zone.
D. Provide a consolidated and structured framework for the processing of preliminary and final subdivision
   plat(s), preliminary and final site plans, and other permits and licenses required by this Code.

An application for approval of a Planned Community Zone is a request by the applicant for additional flexibility
beyond that allowed by the traditional zones within the City. It is the sole responsibility and burden of the appli-
cant to convince the Planning Commission and City Council that the proposed Planned Community Zone is prefer-
able to traditional zoning. Approval for use of the Planned Community Zone lies at the discretion of the City
Council.

Section 06.020 Planned Community Description.
Each Planned Community Zone should include a cohesive mixture of land uses, including commercial and/or busi-
ness park uses, which will provide services and employment opportunities to residents within the community. Resi-
dential uses should provide a range of housing types and densities to accommodate a variety of age and income
groups and residential preferences, so that the community’s demographic diversity is maintained. Commercial uses
should focus on retail services for the residents of the community and must include a unifying design theme which
compliments the residential areas. Residential and commercial land uses should be integrated to promote a walkable,
sustainable community.

Development should promote creative lot configuration with usable public and private recreation areas, parks, trails
and open space with assurance of maintenance. Preservation of open space and critical environmental areas is also
highly encouraged through the use of clustering and other innovative development options where a standard lot pat-
tern is not practical or desirable due to physical constraints.




Skye Area Plan Mixed Use Design Amendment
Section 06.030 Design Compatibility.
Development within a Planned Community Zone should promote attractive, unified architectural design. Develop-
ment should be planned as one complex land use with a common architectural design theme that provides variety
within a context of architectural compatibility, rather than an aggregation of individual, unrelated buildings located
on separate, unrelated lots. In order to ensure that development within the Planned Community Zone is compatible
and meets the purposes of this Chapter, the Planning Commission may recommend and the City Council may require
that certain design guidelines be employed as part of the approval of an Area Plan for a PC Zone. The design
guidelines may include, but are not limited to, architectural controls, colors, materials, building mass, innovative
design of buildings and access, and any other features deemed appropriate by the City Council. As part of the design
guidelines for any Planned Community Zone each single family detached or attached dwelling shall include, as a
minimum standard, an enclosed one (1) car garage.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of proposed amendments to the Skye Area Plan adding design
exceptions from the General Nonresidential Design District for the Mixed-Use designated areas. The applicant re-
quests two exceptions.

Drive Aisle Exception
The applicant proposes to allow drive-throughs adjacent to Center Street, Travere Terrace, 500 West and Timpanogos
Highway. The General Nonresidential Design District does not allow a drive aisle between the building and the street.
This would allow for a drive-through aisle between the building and the street. Drive-throughs are permitted uses in
the Skye Area Plan, but conditional uses in commercial areas in Lehi. Often the exception is granted with the condi-
tional use. Allowing the drive-through aisle will reduce the number of site plans that come to Planning Commission
requesting the exception for the drive aisle.

The applicant provided images and a conceptual layout that shows how pedestrians can still safely and comfortably
access the site.

The applicant also provided the justification of the steep slopes that will exist between the roadway and the building.
The retaining walls will prevent pedestrians from easily being able to access each building off of the public street.

Glass Location Exception
The applicant also proposes to not provide the required 20 percent glass on the façade facing the public street and
instead to provide it on the front elevation or a side elevation, if it fronts a private street.

The justification for this also relates to the steep slopes in the area, having a large amount of glass hidden behind
retaining walls does not have the same impact as providing the glass on more visible elevations.

The applicant is not asking for an exception to the amount of glass, just more flexibility in the placement of it.

DRC Comments
The reviewing departments encouraged the applicant to pursue an Area Plan amendment instead of applying for
individual exceptions or one large exception with their concept plan.

Staff also had some recommendations on updating the language the references which the applicant has already done.




  SCOPE OF APPROVAL
Area Plan Amendments are a legislative item with a large amount of discretion by the Planning Commission. They
may consider if these changes will meet the intent of the design requirements and lighting ordinances.




Skye Area Plan Mixed Use Design Amendment
The public may also speak to this item. Comments focused on specific concerns and changes are the most helpful to
the Planning Commission.

 POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed area plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed area plan amendment allows flexibility with the design requirements and will/will not pre-
         serve the intent of the design requirements.
    2.   The proposed area plan amendment will/will not provide a quality community in Lehi City.
    3.   Other findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Skye Area Plan Mixed Use Design Amendment
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         October 1, 2025

                                                Sky View Area Plan Amendment
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Gardner- requests review of the Sky View Area Plan Amendment to the General Nonresidential Design Requirements.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 9/23/25
Time Start: 2:59pm
Time End: 3:10pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. The Code does not say anything about drive up windows. It states that there cannot be drive aisles between the building
    and the street. Update narrative.
2. Update language to permit drive aisles between the building and the street. And recommend stating for one drive aisle
    with no parking.
3. The idea here sounds good, but the language should be more objective and clear how to implement it.



THIS ITEM CAN WORK WITH PLANNING STAFF TO UPDATE THE LANGUAGE AND BE SCHEDULED FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION ON OCTOBER 23rd. (NEED ENVELOPES BEFORE SCHEDULING)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                        Skye Area Plan Amendment

Narrative for Area Plan Amendment

Gardner-Plumb is requesting an amendment to the Skye Area Plan to allow for two
targeted exceptions to the current development standards across all commercial areas
within the zone. While our request is intended to apply throughout the
commercially-designated portions of the Skye Area Plan, the following buildings
illustrate where the exceptions would apply under the current plan: Buildings 1, 2, 3, 7
and 11 for drive-thru placement, and all buildings (1-13) for glass allocation.

   ●​ Exception to: Drive-up aisle not permitted along public street frontages​

          ○​ Code reference:
               ■​ Section 37.010.7 General Nonresidential Design Standards
               ■​ i. Setbacks:
               ■​ 1. A maximum setback of 50 feet shall be allowed from a building to
                   a city street for all uses unless otherwise allowed in Section
                   37.010.B.5.c.2 and Section 37.010.B.5.c.3, or 100 feet where a
                   drive aisle exists between the building and the street.
               ■​ c. Site design standards:
               ■​ i. Building orientation:
               ■​ 1. Buildings shall be oriented toward the adjacent public or private
                   street with no off-street parking or drive aisles located between the
                   building and street sidewalk (see Figure 131). However, all
                   buildings next to Center Street shall be allowed one drive aisle
                   between the building and the street.



   ●​ Proposed Design Guideline Mixed-Use Exception:

      Permit drive-thru aisles adjacent to Center Street, Traverse Terrace, and 500 W
      and SR-92.
●​ Justification: We share the City’s goal of creating a walkable,
   pedestrian-friendly site. Our plan has been carefully designed to prioritize
   pedestrian activity in the areas best suited for it — specifically along the linear
   park, which connects both to the residential neighborhood above and the loop
   trail along SR-92. This creates a safer, more engaging pedestrian environment
   while also activating a unique community amenity. Furthermore, a precedent for
   this already exists to the west of our project with the Central Bank - Traverse
   Mountain, which has a drive-through along both SR-92 and 500 W.




   While Center Street will accommodate some pedestrian activity — particularly
   once this project and the adjacent D.R. Horton developments are fully built out —
   its role as a primary traffic corridor makes it less ideal for concentrated walkability
   compared to the linear park and trail system. For this reason, we are orienting
   cars and drive-thru uses along Center Street and drawing pedestrian traffic
   toward the internal park and trail network. This balance allows us to deliver the
   retailers and services that residents have expressed a desire for while ensuring
   those tenants can operate successfully. In short, drive-thru flexibility is critical to
   making the site viable and delivering the services that will anchor Sky View as a
   community destination. ​


●​ Exception to 40% transparent glass required on street-facing façades​

       ○​ Code reference:
            ■​ b. Architectural standards:
            ■​ ii. Street facades:
            ■​ 1. A minimum of 20 percent of the facade area on the first floor
                facing the street shall consist of glass. Where a building is located
                on a corner lot of two local streets, a minimum of 20 percent of
                each facade on the first floor shall consist of glass. However, when
                the grade of the site reduces visibility of the elevation nearest to the
                street, the 20 percent glass will be provided on the front building
                elevation.



●​ Proposed Design Guideline Mixed-Use Exception:

   Where grade conditions along Center Street, Traverse Terrace, 500 W, or SR-92
   reduce visibility of the street-facing façade, the required glass percentage may be
   shifted to the building entrance or drive-access façade to maintain transparency
   and visual interest.

●​ Justification: We are not requesting a reduction in the required glass; rather, we
   propose relocating it to façades where transparency is visible and meaningful.
   Along Center Street, retaining walls and grade changes conceal portions of the
   street frontage, limiting the effectiveness of glass. By reallocating transparency to
   the sides of buildings and other active façades, we can reinforce design quality,
   create stronger pedestrian connections, and improve tenant functionality.
