                         OVERVIEW PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                            Applicant       John Hadfield
                        Meeting Date        October 23, 2025
            Requested Action/Purpose        Public hearing, review, and approval of a proposed preliminary subdivision
                        Decision Type       Administrative
                             Location       Approximately Utah Highlands Drive and 600 East
    Existing General Plan Designation       Very Low Density Residential (VLDR)
                      Existing Zoning       R-1-15
                   Existing Land Use        Undeveloped Land
                Number of Lots/Units        3 Lots
       Adjacent Zoning and Land Use               North RA-1                   Single Family Homes
                                                  South TH-5                   Unbuildable fill
                                                   East RA-1                   Undeveloped
                                                   West RA-1                   Single Family Homes
                   Date of DRC Review       October 8, 2025
                     Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                  Planning Commission       Public hearing, review, and approval
                          City Council      No action required


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code, in-
cluding review by the Reviewing Departments, and review and approval by the Planning Commission following a
public hearing.

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat has
been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat approval.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

September 24, 2004         Property was annexed into the City as part of the Hadfield Addition

July 25, 2006              The City Council approved the Overview Final Subdivision


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Overview Subdivision including three residential lots at the southeast corner
of 600 East and Utah Highlands Drive. This subdivision previously received approval in 2006 but was never con-
structed and so the approval expired.




Overview Preliminary Subdivision
All of the proposed lots meet the requirements of the R-1-15 Zone including 100 feet of frontage and 15,000 square
feet of area.

The DRC had one redline comment related to figuring out payment in lieu of detention which means the developer
will pay the City instead of providing detention.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Subdivisions are administrative items. If they meet the Code requirements they must be approved.

The public may speak to this item but they should recognize that this item will not be denied. The public may want to
bring up concerns or items the Planning Commission may not be aware of.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or approve with code required changes the proposed preliminary
subdivision. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed subdivision does/does not meet the requirements of the Lehi City Development Code in re-
         gards to subdivision approvals.
    2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Overview Preliminary Subdivision
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           October 8, 2025

                                                  Overview Subdivision Review
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

John Hadfield- requests review of the preliminary Overview Subdivision including 3 residential lots located at Utah
Highlands Drive and 600 East.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Tony Trane
Date of Plans Reviewed: 09/30/25
Time Start: 1:07
Time End: 1:20

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
1. A payment in lieu price will need to be figured and agreed upon prior to recording plat with note 4
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning: No comments

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)

ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:

THE CHECK-OFF PROCESS WILL TAKE AT LEAST A MONTH FROM THE TIME PLANS AND COST
ESTIMATE ARE RECEIVED. IT IS THE APPLICANTS RESPONSIBIILTY TO ALLOCATE AN
APPROPRIATE AMOUNT OF TIME.

APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
   improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
   supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
   necessary supplies for the development.
5. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
   process.
6. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
7. Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).
1. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
   Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com). More information available at https://www.lehi-
   ut.gov/departments/water/storm-water/
8. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
   should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           October 8, 2025

9.  Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
10. Address any comments or conditions from Planning Commission approval of the preliminary
11. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled
12. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting


PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:

RECORDING OF A PLAT WILL TAKE AT LEAST TWO WEEKS FROM THE TIME THE MYLAR IS
RECEIVED IN PERSON.

1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
4. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.
STAFF
5. Send a digital copy of the plat to the County for review prior to accepting printed mylar.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THE PRELIMINARY MEETING WILL BE SCHEDULED ON OCTOBER 23rd, PENDING ENVELOPES, FINAL
NEEDS TO RESUBMIT TO DRC

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
