                                         SMITH ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant         Eric Smith
                                Meeting Date          October 23, 2025
                     Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                      change
                              Decision Type           Legislative
                                   Location           235 W State Street
                                    Acreage           0.40 acres
                            Existing Zoning           R-2
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           NC (Neighborhood Commercial)
               Proposed Zoning Designation            NC
                          Existing Land Use           Single family residential
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North MU                  State Street
                                                       South R-2                Single family residential
                                                        East MU                 Auto Sales & Rental
                                                        West R-2                Single family residential
                            Date of DRC Review        October 1, 2025
                              Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                  City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872-    This property is part of the original incorporated boundaries of Lehi City.




Smith Zone Change
  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation for a zone change from R-2 to Neighborhood Commercial for a
property located at 235 West State Street. This zone change on approximately 0.40 acres of property provides the poten-
tial for a variety of commercial uses and the applicant’s narrative mentions a potential office building. However, no offi-
cial concept plan was submitted at this time, but an exhibit was included to show they intend to meet the Neighborhood
Commercial requirements of no more than a 5,000 square foot building footprint. The proposed zoning aligns with the
Neighborhood Commercial designation in the General Plan.
The Development Review Committee (DRC) reviewed the proposed zone change and only had the comment that the
applicant needed to update the legal description in their narrative.

Please include the DRC comments in the motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative items. However, when the proposed zone change is consistent with the General Plan, the
Planning Commission and ultimately City Council would need to provide reasons for denying the proposed zone
change.

The public can speak on the proposed zone change. Comments focused on specific concerns with the zone change are
the most helpful.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Smith Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          October 1, 2025

                                                      Smith Zone Change
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Eric Smith- requests review of the Smith Zone Change located at 235 West State Street, changing the zoning on 0.40 acres
from R-2 to NC. Need Envelopes

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: None
Date of Plans Reviewed: 9/19/25
Time Start: 1:02 pm
Time End: 1:04 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comment. – A line extension for power will be required for development.
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S.– Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey– Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Need an updated legal description.
    Taxing Description: COM W 1162.96 FT & N 524.64 FT FR E 1/4 COR. SEC. 8, T5S, R1E, SLB&M.; N 87 DEG 2'
    35" W 133.98 FT; N 43 DEG 53' 0" E 241.93 FT; S 46 DEG 7' 0" E 64.49 FT; S 30 DEG 28' 41" W 158.48 FT TO
    BEG. AREA 0.395 AC.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON OCTOBER 23, 2025. (NEED ENVELOPES
BEFORE SCHEDULING)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
  Application for Zoning Map Amendment – 235 W. State St, Lehi


The owner of 235 W. State Street would like to change the property zoning from R2 to NC.
This rezone will then allow for a small office building with a few tenant spaces to be built on
the property.

The Proposed change meets the general plan.

The property is along State Street in Lehi and the owner would like to offer office space to
small businesses that want to be located in Lehi. This part of Lehi could be an optimal spot
for growth and more mixed-use.

Currently, there is a commercial property to the south with residential neighbors to the
west and north. All residential neighbors have been notified of this proposed zone change
and future development.

A new office space in this part of Lehi could bring more daytime activity which can make
the area feel safer and have more vitality. It could provide residents with, potentially, a
more convenient work location, reducing commuting stress and providing a better work-life
balance. Reduced commuting could cut traffic congestion and reduce pollution by
encouraging walking and biking for transit.

A change in the use may have a negative effect on nearby residential residents due to
increased traffic and noise. The developer is hoping to mitigate these through a landscape
buffer to reduce noise, small office spaces with few employees that don’t have other foot
traffic, ample parking spaces and situating the building as far from the residential
properties as possible.

The overall community benefit includes job creation. Offices bring employment
opportunities close to where people live. Another benefit is increased property values due
to proximity of jobs which makes nearby housing more desirable. It may also boost the
local economy through workers supporting local businesses, restaurants, cafes, shops,
and gyms.

Legal Description

235 W State St is a 1,559 square foot house on a 17,206 sq ft or 0.39 acre lot with 4
bedrooms and 2 bathrooms.
