                              THE COLLECTIVE TREE EXCEPTION
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant         Center Cal
                          Meeting Date         November 13, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose          Approval of a proposed exception to a site plan
                         Decision Type         Administrative
                              Location         Approximately Timpanogos Highway and Morning Vista Road
                           Project Area        23.42 acres
                       Existing Zoning         Planned Community
     General Plan Land Use Designation         Highway Commercial
                     Existing Land Use         Undeveloped
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use              North PC (Commercial) Undeveloped/ future residential
                                                  South Timpanogos Highway
                                                   East PC (HDR/MDR)          The Vue Apartments
                                                   West PC (Commercial) Undeveloped
                       Date of DRC Review      October 29, 2025
                         Assigned Planner      Brittney Harris

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                      Planning Commission      Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.260. Site Plan Approval Process.
Permitted Uses.
       1. Site plans associated with a permitted use require review an approval by the Reviewing Departments. Site
    Plans requesting exceptions to Code requirements require approval by the Planning Commission for the requested
    exceptions. The Reviewing Departments may require that the approval of a site plan be forwarded to the Planning
    Commission if they determine the standards in the Development Code are unclear, or that the project is likely to
    have extenuating or unforeseen impacts beyond what would normally be expected on issues such as traffic,
    lighting, or compatibility of uses.

Section 37.020. Urban Tech Mixed Use Design District.
        a. Landscaping standards:

              i. Water-wise landscaping:

                 1.    Each site shall provide a minimum 50 percent water-wise landscaping.

                 2.    Sod shall not be used within park strip areas and shall only be used as accents within larger
                       landscaped areas on a site (see Figure 116).

                 3.    A minimum of 30 trees per acre based on the total project acreage shall be provided in open
                       space areas to contribute towards an urban forest.

                 4.    Landscaping shall be maintained in good condition according to the approved landscape plan.
                       Typical maintenance shall include mowing of grass, removing weeds, and replacing dead
                       plants.



The Collective Tree Exception
  PROPERTY HISTORY

July 26, 1997     Property came into the City as part of the Deerfield Annexation


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of an exception to the tree requirements for The Collective Site Plan located at
approximately Timpanogos Highway and Morning Vista Road. The site plan received administrative approval from
the Reviewing Departments, and only the exception to the tree requirement requires approval from the Planning
Commission.

Site Plan Overview
An overview of the site plan layout provides context for the exception. The site plan includes four buildings and six
pads for future buildings. The four approved buildings front onto Timpanogos Highway. Pedestrian access to these
buildings will, in part, be provided by the master planned trail along Timpanogos Highway. Vehicular access will
primarily come from the Sunrise Way extension. Secondary access will be provided on “Road A”.

The site also includes a large parking lot in the center of the development, that will serve all of the buildings. The
site includes Electric Vehicle (EV) charging stations on the southeast corner of the site next to a plaza gathering
area.

Tree Exception
The Urban Tech Mixed Use Design District requires 30 trees per acre for commercial developments. The Park
Department Staff agree the applicant provided as many trees as can work on the site. However, they only provided
381 trees while 580 trees were required. The Planning Commission may approve a reduction of the number of
trees based on the constraints of the site to provide all of the required trees, and because the applicant met all of the
other landscaping requirements. Many other sites have also received a reduction in the number of trees. Planting
too many trees close together impacts the long-term health and growth of the trees.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Site Plans are administrative items that must be approved if they meet the Development Code requirements. This site
plan requests exceptions. The Planning Commission should determine if the intent of the Code is met and these
exceptions should be granted. The public can speak to this and share any concerns related to the exception.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed site plan. Any motion should include findings.
Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed exception to the amount of trees will provide for the long-term health and growth of the trees
         that are planted.
    2.   The applicant met all of the other landscaping requirements for the site.
    3.   The proposed site plan still meets the plant covering and other landscape requirements.
    4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public meeting.




The Collective Tree Exception
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          October 29, 2025

                                                 The Collective in Lehi Site Plan
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Center Cal- requests review of The Collective site plan located at approximately Morning Vista Drive and SR-92 with the
Highway Commercial Land Use Designation.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Jordan Sheets
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/21/25
Time Start: 1:35pm
Time End: 2:07pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
No separate power easement is required along Morning Vista Road.
1. No wet utilities or permanent structures are allowed in the PUE space. Includes storm drain, manholes, and detention.
    Coordinate locations and power routing in the interior loop and transformer locations.
2. Provide, show, and label a 10’ minimum power easement at the 200 A. interior service loop line shown in the final Lehi
    Power Design. See the routing plan included in the Power Study.
3. Show transformer locations in accordance with the power study. Assure adequate space for transformers and required
    clearances **. Show and label service locations and sizes on both the Site Plan and Utilities Plan.
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
4. Add key note 5 to hydrant or show valve symbol on plans.
James – Parks:
5. Please add hatching to all landscape plan pages, consistent with other pages
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
6. Is the PI connection size correct on the site plan? Add a table with the address, the connection size, and the irrigated area
    of each pad (that is known)
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
7. Change orifice diameter to reflect the restricted flow capacity for basin A
8. Show the location of the railing/barrier on the site plan. Show combined traffic and fall protection railing along Sunrise
    way above retaining walls with the end sections turned down to ground. Provide dimensions and details. And as a vehicle
    barrier
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
9. Show 7' turn radius on the trail intersection at Timp Highway and Morning Vista.
Recommend adding one more wall variation on the backside of the buildings

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)


ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private improvements
   must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          October 29, 2025

4.  Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
    process.
5. Provide a title report to be reviewed by Staff.
6. Grease traps and sample MH will need TSSD approval prior to pre-con comment.
7. Surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps on construction drawings.
8. Provide signed easement verification sheet.
9. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
    Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com). More information available at https://www.lehi-
    ut.gov/departments/water/storm-water/
10. Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
11. Provide a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan and Agreement to Planning Division and Public Works (Shelbey
    Brewer at lehicitystormwater@gmail.com and CC Planner) for review and approval (signed by Mayor). Final signed
    agreement must be recorded by developer and a copy submitted to the City.
12. Provide approval letter from the State (UDEQ) for Class V UIC Injection Well.
13. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
10. Prior to precon note: A plat showing the utility easements in favor of Lehi City will need to be recorded. (Plat should be
    included with the next DRC plan submission.)
STAFF
14. Address comments from Planning Commission approval.
15. Approval will be required for any portions of the trail that fall within the JVWCD easement. Staff applies with the plans
    and profiles provided by the developer.
16. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be
    scheduled.
17. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.

THIS ITEM IS NOT REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          October 29, 2025

(An exception requires stamped addressed envelopes for public noticing if the project proceeds to Planning Commission)

THIS ITEM CAN SUBMIT UPDATED PLANS FOR CHECK-OFFS
PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                3 of 3
