                     SKY VIEW PYLON SIGNS CONDITIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Austin Cope
                         Meeting Date         November 13, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of conditional use pylon signs
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        Approximately Timpanogos Highway and Center Street
                       Existing Zoning        Planned Community (PC)
              General Plan Designation        Mixed-Use (MU)
                    Existing Land Use         Undeveloped Land
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North PC                       Future Retail
                                                 South Timpanogos Highway
                                                  East Mixed-Use                Future Retail
                                                  West Mixed-Use                Future Retail
                     Date of DRC Review       November 5, 2025
                       Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.

The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest

                                                                                                                       1
Section 23.090. Regulations for Permanent Signs.
                    F. Pylon Signs. On-premises pylon signs shall be allowed subject to the following:

                         1.   On commercial lots of three acres or larger, one pylon sign may be approved on each
                              collector or arterial street frontage.

                         2.   A pylon sign may be placed on a commercial lot or multi-tenant commercial project
                              less than three acres in size where:

                              a.   the lot is within 300 feet of the I-15 right-of-way;

                              b.   the lot is within 1,000 feet of an I-15 interchange;

                              c.   the sign is oriented for freeway viewing; and

                              d.   the sign is owned by a hotel, gas station, or restaurant.

                         3.   Pylon signs shall be allowed on any commercial lot or multi-tenant commercial pro-
                              ject having at least 300 feet of collector or arterial street frontage measured at the
                              front property line.

                         4.   a. Pylon sign height shall not exceed 25 feet, except the height may be increased as
                              per subsection 23.090.I.4.b. for commercial uses located both within 300 feet of the
                              I-15 right-of-way and 1,000 feet of an I-15 interchange.

                                   b.       Businesses that are adjacent to a freeway overpass or similar view-ob-
                                   scuring structure may request review by the Planning Commission for additional
                                   height. The Planning Commission shall approve only minimal additions to
                                   height to provide reasonable visibility above the view-obscuring structure. In all
                                   cases, the Planning Commission shall determine the allowable additional height,
                                   if any, on a site specific, case-by-case basis. In the determination of allowable
                                   additional height, the burden of proof shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
                                   In no case shall the height of a pylon sign exceed 70 feet.

                         5.   The measured height of a pylon sign shall be the distance from the highest point of
                              the sign to the top of the curb or sidewalk, or crown of the street when there is no
                              curb or sidewalk.

                         6.   The maximum size of a pylon sign shall not exceed 15% of the total square footage
                              for the building wall adjacent to the site's street frontage, or 200 square feet, which-
                              ever is less, except for multi-tenant commercial projects the Planning Commission
                              may allow additional sign area on a case-by-case basis, based on the number of ten-
                              ants displayed on the sign. In no case shall the total size of the pylon sign exceed 600
                              square feet.

                         7.   Pylon signs shall not extend over any pedestrian or vehicular access area.

                         8.   Structural supports for pylon signs shall be covered or concealed with pole covers.
                              For signs with one pole, the pole cover shall be a minimum of 48 inches wide. For a
                              sign with two poles, the pole covers shall be a minimum of 36 inches wide each.
                              Support covers shall be architecturally and aesthetically designed to match the build-
                              ing or associated development.

                                                                                                                     2
                           9.   Pylon signs shall be constructed so as to be an integral part of the overall design of
                                the site and architecturally compatible with the building and materials. All pylon
                                signs shall be part of an approved sign theme as per Section 23.140.

                           10. An electronic display on a pylon sign in a multi-tenant project may use 50 percent of
                               the allowable sign area.

                           11. For multi-parcel or multi-tenant retail-based projects of at least three acres, excep-
                               tions may be allowed by the Planning Commission as a conditional use provided that
                               an overall sign package for the project is established to create consistency in the
                               signage for the project. Increase in signage shall be approved on a site specific, case-
                               by-case basis. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide sufficient in-
                               formation and detail to justify the requested increase.



  PROPERTY HISTORY
December 11, 2012          City Council approved the Micron Area Plan

April 8, 2022              This property came into Lehi as the Micron East Annexation

August 23, 2022            City Council approved the Skye Area Plan amending the Micron Area Plan

September 19, 2023         City Council approved the Skye Area Plan Second Amendment

  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of two pylon signs for the Sky View Commercial Development located at Timpanogos
Highway and Center Street in the Mixed-Use area of the Skye Area Plan.

The applicant also wants an exception to the sign copy size and height. The proposed copy size is 360 square feet on
one sign and 323 square feet on the other; the maximum allowed size is 200 square feet. However, the Code allows
Planning Commission to allow additional sign area. The Code also limits height to 25 feet, and the applicant requests
53 feet for both pylon signs. The Code specifies times when the height can increase to 70 feet; however, this location
does not meet any of the listed requirements. The Code includes language that any multi-parcel or multi-tenant project
can have exceptions approved by the Planning Commission as a conditional use. The applicant bears the burden of
proof to justify the extra height and size.

The applicant provided a narrative requesting the additional sign area and height because of the speed on Timpanogos
Highway, and the elevated overpass which limits visibility along the corridor. Please see their narrative included in
the Planning Commission packet for additional justification.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Pylon Signs are a conditional use which means they are allowed but can have reasonable conditions placed on them.
In this case the Planning Commission considers allowing a greater sign area and height.

The public can speak to this item. Comments focused on the increased height or size of the sign are the most beneficial
comments.




  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

                                                                                                                         3
The Planning Commission may move to approve or approve with changes to the proposed height. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.   The requested height for the pylon signs is/is not justified based on the speed of the traffic and the height of the
     overpass structure.
2.   The requested size of the pylon signs is/is not justified based on the speed of the traffic and the height of the
     overpass structure.
3.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                       4
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          November 5, 2025

                                                   Skyview Development Signs
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Austin Cope- requests review of a conditional use permit for the Skyview Development Signs located at Timpanogos
Highway and Center Street.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Austin Cope and Kasey Burn
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/29/25
Time Start: 1:32 pm
Time End: 1:37pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
1. Sign copy size is 580 square feet which requires an exception from the Planning Commission.
    6.The maximum size of a pylon sign shall not exceed 15% of the total square footage for the building wall adjacent to
    the site's street frontage, or 200 square feet, whichever is less, except for multi-tenant commercial projects the
    Planning Commission may allow additional sign area on a case-by-case basis, based on the number of tenants
    displayed on the sign. In no case shall the total size of the pylon sign exceed 600 square feet.
2. The pylon signs can only be 25 feet tall.
    4.a.Pylon sign height shall not exceed 25 feet, except the height may be increased as per subsection 23.090.I.4.b. for
    commercial uses located both within 300 feet of the I-15 right-of-way and 1,000 feet of an I-15 interchange.
    b.Businesses that are adjacent to a freeway overpass or similar view-obscuring structure may request review by the
    Planning Commission for additional height. The Planning Commission shall approve only minimal additions to height
    to provide reasonable visibility above the view-obscuring structure. In all cases, the Planning Commission shall
    determine the allowable additional height, if any, on a site specific, case-by-case basis. In the determination of
    allowable additional height, the burden of proof shall be the responsibility of the applicant. In no case shall the height
    of a pylon sign exceed 70 feet.
    For multi-parcel or multi-tenant retail-based projects of at least three acres, exceptions may be allowed by the
    Planning Commission as a conditional use provided that an overall sign package for the project is established to
    create consistency in the signage for the project. Increase in signage shall be approved on a site specific, case-by-case
    basis. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide sufficient information and detail to justify the requested
    increase. The design and placement of on-premises pylon signs for multi-tenant commercial projects may vary from
    the regulations of this section and shall be considered as a conditional use provided:
    a.the proposed sign exceptions are not in conflict with the purpose and intent of Chapter 23; and
    b.the proposed sign is in architectural harmony with the development.



THIS ITEM IS SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON NOVEMBER 13th

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (NONE)


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
Skyview Development – Planning Commission Sign
Exception Request
Request: Approval for (2) Pylon Signs at 53’ height — tenant sign areas of 360 sq. ft. (Pylon A)
and 323 sq. ft. (Pylon D)​
Applicant: Gardner Development​
Project Name: Skyview​
Location: Intersection of Timpanogos Highway (SR-92) & N Center Street, Lehi, UT




Project Overview

Skyview is a major new multi-tenant commercial development located along Timpanogos
Highway (SR-92), a 55MPH regional arterial directly connected to the I-15 interchange. Due to
the speed of traffic flow, the elevated overpass structure, and visibility along the corridor,
enhanced signage height and orientation are critical to provide appropriate advance notice for
drivers approaching the development.

Additionally, vehicles traveling eastbound on SR-92 must exit prior to reaching the development
to safely access the site. Without proper visibility, motorists risk missed turns and sudden
maneuvers, negatively impacting circulation and safety.




Requested Exceptions

We are requesting approval under Lehi City Code Section 23.090.I based on freeway adjacency
and multi-tenant commercial use:

      Sign               Code Requirement               Proposed        Exception Requested

 Sign Height      Max. 25' unless PC approves           53 ft. (A &   Yes – visibility required for
                  exception                             D)            traffic safety and tenant
                                                                      vibility

 Sign Area –      Max. 200 sq. ft. (up to 600 sq. ft.   360 sq. ft.   Yes – supports multiple
 Pylon A          allowed via PC)                                     tenants

 Sign Area –      Same as above                         323 sq. ft.   Yes – supports multiple
 Pylon D                                                              tenants
Both signs remain under the 600 sq. ft. maximum permitted for Planning
Commission-approved exceptions.




Justification for Height Exception (Visibility & Safety)

The site meets each condition in Section 23.090.I.4(b):


✅ View obstructed by overpass, grade change, and sound barriers​
​

✅ High-speed traffic requiring advance decision-making
It is our opinion that the requested 53 ft. height is the minimum height necessary to achieve
adequate visibility above overpass and roadway obstructions so that:

• Eastbound SR-92 traffic can see the signs in time to take the required exit​
 • Drivers have sufficient distance to make safe lane changes and turning movements​
 • Wayfinding reduces abrupt maneuvers and improves circulation efficiency




Justification for Additional Sign Area (Multi-Tenant Demand)

Skyview will include a significant number of diverse tenants — retail, restaurant, and service
users — all requiring representation for customer navigation and commercial viability.

The increased square footage:

• Ensures legible tenant signage at speed from SR-92 and I-15​
 • Consolidates tenant messaging into fewer sign structures, reducing clutter​
 • Aligns tenant panel sizing to City legibility and safety standards​
 • Is well below the maximum allowed for Planning Commission exceptions

The request represents a appropriately scaled solution for the number of tenants and the
nature of the roadway.




Architectural Design & Consistency

Both pylons are designed as part of a comprehensive sign program that:

• Matches the architectural design & branding of Skyview​
 • Uses high-quality illuminated fabrication​
• Provides visually clean tenant organization​
• Establishes a gateway entrance to the development

This integrated approach upholds the purpose and intent of Chapter 23.




Conclusion

The requested signage exceptions help fulfill critical visibility and safety needs while supporting
the economic success of a major new commercial development.

Approval will:

✅ Improve public safety along SR-92 by enhancing advance wayfinding​
✅ Support tenant viability in a freeway-oriented regional commercial node​
✅ Provide a consistent and architecturally cohesive signage plan​
✅ Remain within the Planning Commission’s allowable case-by-case limits
We respectfully request approval for:

• Pylon A – 53 ft. tall, 360 sq. ft. tenant sign area​
 • Pylon D – 53 ft. tall, 323 sq. ft. tenant sign area

as part of the overall Skyview Sign Program.
