                     WATER’S EDGE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                           Applicant          Bob Perdue
                       Meeting Date           November 13, 2025
            Requested Action/Purpose          Review and recommendation of a proposed Development Agreement
                       Decision Type          Legislative
                            Location          Approximately 1350 East Interstate Plaza Drive

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                 Planning Commission          Review and recommendation
                         City Council         Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 29.020. Criteria for Entering into a Development Agreement.
The city may enter into a development agreement only if the development agreement:

    A. Has been duly adopted by the City Council in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

    B. The proposed development to which the development agreement pertains is in conformity with the gen-
       eral plan, zoning district regulations, and other applicable requirements of the City.

    C. The proposed development subject to the agreement contains outstanding features that advance the pol-
       icies, goals and objectives of Lehi City, or the property owner agrees to provide capital improvements
       that exceed the development's proportionate share of the costs of the facilities needed to service the
       development, which hereby advance the provision of facilities to serve Lehi City.


 APPLICABLE STATE CODE REGULATIONS

10-9a-532
(2) (a) A development agreement may not:
        (i) limit a municipality's authority in the future to:
             (A) enact a land use regulation; or
            (B) take any action allowed under Section 10-8-84;
        (ii) require a municipality to change the zoning designation of an area of land within the municipality in
             the future; or
        (iii) allow a use or development of land that applicable land use regulations governing the area subject to
              the development agreement would otherwise prohibit, unless the legislative body approves the devel-
              opment agreement in accordance with the same procedures for enacting a land use regulation under
              Section 10-9a-502, including a review and recommendation from the planning commission and a pub-
              lic hearing.




 REPORT ANALYSIS



Water’s Edge Development Agreement
The applicant requests review and recommendation of the Water’s Edge Development Agreement located at approx-
imately 1350 East Interstate Plaza Drive in the Commercial Zone.

The applicant previously proposed a General Plan Amendment to Mixed-Use, the City Council denied the General
Plan Amendment and instructed Staff to work on a Development Agreement. The proposed Development Agreement
will allow 330 residential dwelling units or equivalent residential dwelling units. The agreement also specifies that at
least 30 percent of the residential units will be for sale product, like townhomes or condos. The agreement also requires
an upscale hotel. The applicant defines that as a 3- or 4-star hotel. The hotel size will reduce the number of residential
units so that the whole development does not exceed 330 equivalent residential units.

The agreement also requires a 10-foot trail between the development and the Meadows Retail Center (Walmart) to the
east. It also requires public street access to the north and east. It specifies that the applicant will need to submit traffic,
sewer, and water capacity studies, will need to amenitized the waterfront, and will need to meet many of the design
requirements of the Transit Oriented Development (TOD) zone.

The Planning Commission and ultimately the City Council should consider the implications of leaving it zoned Com-
mercial. This could lead to concerns in the future with uses that are allowed in the Commercial zone but may not be
the most ideal uses in this future transit area. They may consider adding language to the Development Agreement that
staff will change the zoning to TOD once construction starts on the project.

DRC reviewed the proposed Development Agreement and had nine redline comments including:
1. For item 1.6 A public street is not possible to the north, as this property is under private ownership. However,
   the Engineering Department has determined that the existing utility access easement to the north will be allowed
   to meet the "public" access requirement
2. Include improving the 1200 East/Main Street intersection
3. Any deficiencies found shall be the responsibility of the Developer to remedy, or the project shall be limited to
   the capacity of the infrastructure available.
4. Most projects have not been able to meet the 1.25 FAR ratio with current parking needs. Might be worth pro-
   posing something else with this DA.
5. As part of this development agreement the City Council should consider changing the zoning or allowing it to
   be changed after constructed. Leaving it as commercial may lead to incompatible uses being added afterwards,
   hard to answer questions, and overall ambiguity. Changing the zoning to TOD or even MU will allow this area
   to continue to develop as envisioned for this area.
6. Lehi already has many 3-star hotels, but no 4-star hotels. The star rating was used to quantify "high end". City
   Council should consider if they are okay with a 3-star hotel (similar to most of the hotels in the north end of the
   city) or if they want something more high end.



  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Development Agreements are legislative items at the full discretion of the City Council. The Planning Commission
reviews the Development Agreement and can recommend any changes to the City Council.

The public can also speak to this item and express any concerns or support for the development agreement. The public
can also suggest changes to the language of the agreement.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may provide a positive or negative recommendation on the proposed Water’s Edge
Development Agreement. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:




Water’s Edge Development Agreement
   1.   The proposed Development Agreement requires trail and road connections that will benefit the development
        and surrounding areas.
   2.   The proposed Development Agreement allows for residential and commercial development within the utility
        constraints of the area.
   3.   The proposed Development Agreement amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and
        provisions of the General Plan and its various elements.
   4.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




Water’s Edge Development Agreement
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           October 29, 2025

                                            Water’s Edge Development Agreement
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Bob Perdue- requests review of the Water’s Edge Development Agreement allowing 330 residential units and a high-end
hotel located at approximately 1350 East Interstate Plaza Drive.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Bob Perdue
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/21/25
Time Start: 1:16pm
Time End: 1:30pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. A circuit study is required to determine capacity, and off-site improvements that may be required.
2. Additional comments from Power Department will be forthcoming. Further discussions with Power and the City
    Attorney are required.
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks:
3. Developer shall provide a wetland delineation study.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
4. For item 1.6 A public street is not possible to the north, as this property is under private ownership. However, the
    Engineering Department has determined that the existing utility access easement to the north will be allowed to meet
    the "public" access requirement
5. Include improving the 1200 East/Main Street intersection
6. Any deficiencies found shall be the responsibility of the Developer to remedy, or the project shall be limited to the
    capacity of the infrastructure available.
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
7. Most projects have not been able to meet the 1.25 FAR ratio with current parking needs. Might be worth proposing
    something else with this DA.
8. As part of this development agreement the City Council should consider changing the zoning or allowing it to be
    changed after constructed. Leaving it as commercial may lead to incompatible uses being added afterwards, hard to
    answer questions, and overall ambiguity. Changing the zoning to TOD or even MU will allow this area to continue to
    develop as envisioned for this area.
9. Lehi already has many 3-star hotels, but no 4-star hotels. The star rating was used to quantify "high end". City Council
    should consider if they are okay with a 3-star hotel (similar to most of the hotels in the north end of the city) or if they
    want something more high end.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON NOVEMBER 13, 2025




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                                    WATER’S EDGE
                               DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

        This DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) effective as of the date the last
Party signs below (“Effective Date”) by and among Lehi City, a political subdivision of the State
of Utah (“City”) and Daniel George Properties, LLC, or its successors and permitted assigns,
whose principal place of business is located at ________________(“Developer”). The City and
the Developer are hereinafter referred to individually as a “Party” and collectively as the “Parties.”

                                            RECITALS

        A.      City, acting pursuant to its authority under Municipal Land Use, Development, and
Management Act, Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-9a-101, -803, as amended, and in furtherance of its land
use policies, goals, objectives, ordinances, and regulations of Lehi City, in the exercise of its
legislative discretion, has elected to approve and enter into this Agreement.

       B.      Developer has a legal interest in certain real property, as described in Exhibit A
attached hereto (Property).

        C.     On September 23, 2025 the City Council held a discussion regarding uses of the
Property and their willingness to pursue a development agreement that would allow uses other
than those currently allowed in the Commercial Zoning of the property.

       D.      Given the location of the Project, the Parties desire that multi-family apartment,
townhome or condo uses, which are not permitted uses in the Commercial Zone, be added to the
allowable uses per the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

        E.      City recognizes that the development of the Waters Edge Project may result in
tangible benefits to City including better roadway and active transportation connectivity in the
area; and that the Water’s Edge Project may enhance further economic development efforts in the
vicinity of the Property, and City is therefore willing to enter into this Agreement, subject to the
terms and conditions set forth herein.

                                          AGREEMENT

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants, and provisions
set forth herein, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as
follows:

                                            ARTICLE 1

          1.1 Upon approval of this Agreement, the allowable uses within the Water’s Edge
     development (the Property) shall include all uses permitted within the Commercial Zone as
     well as multi-family residential uses, including townhomes, condominiums and apartments
     (collectively, the Approved Use).

         1.2    If residential uses are constructed, the total residential density on the Property
  shall not exceed 330 dwelling units, reduced by any equivalent residential units (ERUs)

                                                  1
allocated to the hotel use, based on the number of hotel fixture units. 25 hotel plumbing fixture
units shall be equivalent to 1 ERU.

        1.3     Any residential development shall include a minimum of thirty percent (30%) of
the units as a for sale product.

        1.4    The development of the Property shall include the construction and operation of
an upscale (3 or 4-star rating or higher), full-service hotel as an integral component of the overall
project. No more than 230 residential dwelling units may receive final approval prior to the
hotel obtaining site plan approval and issuance of a building permit.

       1.5    The development of the Property shall include a publicly accessible 10-foot-
wide bike and pedestrian pathway and bridge across the existing wetlands, providing a direct
connection between the Property and the regional Meadows Retail Center to the east.

        1.6    The development of the Property shall provide public street access to both the
north and the east, in addition to maintaining existing access points to the west; provided that
the city of American Fork grants approval. Traffic improvements shall also include construction
of a new roundabout within Woodbury’s Meadows Regional Retail Center, subject to City
approval.

       1.7    The Developer shall conduct and submit traffic, sewer, and water capacity
studies to the City to determine the adequacy of public facilities necessary to serve the
development of the Property.

       1.8    The waterfront and surrounding open space areas shall be improved and
amenitized with active uses (walking paths, viewing areas, etc.) to allow natural surveillance
and deter unwanted trespass and nefarious activity.

       1.9     The Developer shall obtain all required site plan and/or subdivision approvals
through the City’s development review process for the Approved Use and shall comply with all
applicable provisions of the Lehi City Development Code, the Design Standards, and the Public
Improvements Specifications Manual.

        1.10 Because of the Property’s close proximity to a future transit station, the Property
shall meet the design standards and parking requirements from Sections 38.070 and 38.080 of
the Development Code for Transit Oriented Development as shown on Exhibit B of this
Agreement. These TOD requirements include open space and plaza space requirements, as well
as standards for bike and pedestrian facilities as contained in the Sections noted above.

        1.11 The ownership, maintenance responsibilities, and final configuration of open               Formatted: Font: Not Bold
space areas, trails, wetlands, and roadways within the Property shall be determined during the
site plan and subdivision review processes. These matters shall be addressed and finalized at           Formatted: Font: Not Bold
the time those applications are considered and approved, based on the specific design and layout
details available at that stage. No commitments or dedications regarding such areas are
established by this Agreement at this time.



                                                2
       1.12 Additional water rights shall be required for any multi-family development and for
  the development of the hotel as a condition of site plan consistent with Section 27.070 of the
  Lehi City Development Code.

       1.13 This Agreement and Developer’s right to use the Property for the Approved Use
  shall begin on the Effective Date and expire only upon termination of this Agreement.

      1.14 This Agreement will terminate without further action by either party if Developer
  has not received site plan approval for the Approved Use within three years of the Effective
  Date of this Agreement (“Termination Date”).

       1.15 Should Developer abandon the Approved Use for one full year at any time after
  receiving site plan approval, or if Developer decides to sell the Property except as described in
  Article 4.15, the Approved Use shall expire, this Agreement shall terminate, and only those uses
  allowed in the designated Zone at the time will be allowed.

                                            ARTICLE 2

        3.1    Breach and Cure. Any material failure by any Party to perform any term or
provision of this Agreement, which breach continues uncured for a period of ten (10) days
following written notice of such failure from the non-defaulting Party, unless such period is
extended by written mutual consent, shall constitute a default under this Agreement. Any notice
given pursuant to the preceding sentence shall specify the nature of the alleged breach and, where
appropriate, the manner in which said breach satisfactorily may be cured. If the nature of the
alleged breach is such that it cannot reasonably be cured within such 10-day period, then the
commencement of the cure within such time period, and the diligent prosecution to completion of
the cure thereafter, shall be deemed to be a cure within such 10-day period. Upon the occurrence
of an uncured breach or default under this Agreement as described above, the non-defaulting party
may terminate this Agreement by written notice to the breaching party, and the non-defaulting
Party may pursue any and all available legal or equitable remedies.

                                            ARTICLE 3

        4.1    Indemnification. Developer agrees to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the City
from and against any and all loss, damage, or expense which the City may suffer or for which the
City may be held liable by reason of any injury (including death) or damage to any property to the
extent caused by the negligent acts, errors, or omissions or willful misconduct of arising out of the
Developer’s in the performance breach of this Agreement. This indemnity provision shall not
apply to claims arising from or attributable to the negligence or intentional conduct of the City.

        4.2     No Agency, Joint Venture or Partnership. It is specifically understood and agreed
to by and between the Parties that this Agreement does not create any form of agency relationship,
joint venture, or partnership expressed or implied between them.

        4.3    Severability. If any term or provision of this Agreement, or the application of any
term or provision of this Agreement to a particular situation, is held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remaining terms and provisions of this


                                                 3
Agreement, or the application of this Agreement to other situations, shall continue in full force and
effect unless amended or modified by mutual consent of the Parties.

        4.4   Other Necessary Acts. Each Party shall execute and deliver to the other any further
instruments and documents as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the objectives and intent
of this Agreement.

        4.5    Construction/Interpretation. The Parties acknowledge that each has had the
opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed and revised by legal counsel and no presumption or
rule that ambiguities shall be construed against the drafting Party shall apply to the interpretation
or enforcement of this Agreement.

       4.6     Other Miscellaneous Terms. The singular shall include the plural; the masculine
gender shall include the feminine; “shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissive.

        4.7    Waiver. No action taken by any Party shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of
compliance by such Party with respect to any representation, warranty, or condition contained in
this Agreement. Any waiver by any Party of a breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not
operate or be construed as a waiver by such Party of any subsequent breach, except as outlined in
Article 4.1 above.

       4.8     Utah Law. This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the
laws of the State of Utah.

        4.9     Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing. Each Party shall use its best efforts and
take and employ all necessary actions in good faith consistent with this Agreement to ensure that
the rights secured by the other Parties through this Agreement can be enjoyed.

        4.10 Representations. Each Party hereby represents and warrants to each other Party
that the following statements are true, complete and not misleading as regards the representing
warranting Party;

                       (a)      Such Party is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing
under the laws of the state of its organization.

                        (b)     Such Party has full authority to enter into this Agreement and to
perform all of its obligations hereunder. The individual(s) executing this Agreement on behalf of
such Party do so with the full authority of the Party that those individual(s) represent.

                     (c)     This Agreement constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation
of such Party enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to the rules of bankruptcy,
moratorium and equitable principles.

      4.11 No Third-Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement is between the City and the
Developer. No other party shall be deemed a third-party beneficiary or have any rights under this
Agreement.



                                                 4
        4.12 Force Majeure. No liability or breach of this Agreement shall result from delay in
performance or nonperformance caused, directly or indirectly, by circumstances beyond the
reasonable control of the Party affected (“Force Majeure”), including, but not limited to, fire,
extreme weather, terrorism, explosion, flood, war, power interruptions, pandemics and related
governmental restrictions or actions, the act of other governmental bodies, accident, labor trouble
or the shortage or inability to obtain material, service, personnel, equipment or transportation,
failure of performance by a common carrier, failure of performance by a public utility, or
vandalism.

       4.13    Notices.

         Any notice or communication required hereunder between the parties must be in writing,
and may be given either personally or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. If
given by registered or certified mail, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been
given and received on the first to occur of (i) actual receipt by any of the addressees designated
below as the Party to whom notices are to be sent, or (ii) five (5) days after a registered or certified
letter containing such notice, properly addressed, with postage prepaid, is deposited in the United
States mail. If personally delivered, a notice shall be deemed to have been given when delivered
to the Party to whom it is addressed. Any Party may at any time, by giving ten (10) days written
notice to the other Party, designate any other address to which notices or communications shall be
given. Such notices or communications shall be given to the Parties at their addresses set forth
below:

                       If to the City:
                       The Honorable Mayor Mark Johnson
                       Lehi City
                       153 North 100 East
                       Lehi, UT 84043

                       With Copies to:
                       Teisha Wilson
                       Lehi City Recorder
                       153 North 100 East
                       Lehi, UT 84043

                       If to Developer:
                       Daniel George Properties, LLC
                       2400 E Katella Ave. Ste 370
                       Anaheim, CA 92806


        4.14 Entire Agreement, Counterparts and Exhibits. Unless otherwise noted herein, this
Agreement is the final and exclusive understanding and agreement of the Parties and supersedes
all negotiations or previous agreements between the Parties with respect to all or any part of the
subject matter hereof. All waivers of the provisions of this Agreement shall be in writing and
signed by the appropriate authorities of City and Developer. This Agreement may only be


                                                   5
modified as mutually agreed by both Parties in a writing signed by appropriate authorities of City
and Developer.

       4.15 Non-Assignability; Agreement to Run with the Land. This Agreement shall not be
assignable by Developer except upon the express written consent of the City, which consent shall
not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed in its sole discretion; provided, however,
that Developer may fully assign this Agreement to its corporate parent, a corporate affiliate, or a
subsidiary without the City’s consent. This Agreement will be a covenant that runs with the land
and will be recorded against property.

             [Remainder of page intentionally left blank; signature page to follow]




      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been entered into by and between City, and
Developer as of the Effective Date.

                                                     LEHI CITY CORPORATION




                                                     By:    Mark Johnson
                                                     Its:   Mayor

ATTEST:



Teisha Wilson
City Recorder


                                                     ??? LLC


                                                     ______________________________
                                                     By:
                                                     Its: ___________________________



STATE OF UTAH                 )
                              ss:
COUNTY OF                     )

                                                6
       On this________ day of ___________, 2024 before me, _____________________ a
notary public, personally appeared before me __________________________, whose identity is
personally known to me (or proven on the basis of satisfactory evidence) and who by me duly
sworn/affirmed, did say that he is the ___________________ of ??? and that said document was
signed by him in behalf of said Company by Authority of its operating agreement, or member or
manager consent, and said _____________________________ acknowledged to me that said
Company executed the same.

Witness my hand and official seal.



______________________________
Notary Public
                                                         (notary seal)




                                              7
                                      Exhibit “A”

                               Property Legal Description

COM S 1607.193 FT & W 1600.105 FT FR N 1/4 COR. SEC. 15, T51, R1E, SLB&M.; S 13
DEG 39' 0" W 628.15 FT; S 33.66 FT; S 5 DEG 15' 0" E 449.46 FT; S 23 DEG 30' 0" W 363.76
FT; N 51 DEG 59' 0" W 462.93 FT; N 7 DEG 48' 0" E 1136.22 FT; N 88 DEG 13' 0" E 462.89
FT TO BEG. AREA 13.022 AC.




                                           8
                                         Exhibit “B”
      Applicable Lehi City Development Code Requirements from Sections 37.070 and 37.080

Section 38.070 Design Standards.
Development within a TOD should promote an attractive, unified architectural design. Development should be
integrated and cohesive with a common architectural design theme that provides variety within a context of
architectural compatibility, rather than an aggregation of individual, unrelated buildings located on separate lots. The
TOD Design Standards are intended to create a pedestrian friendly environment by ensuring good building and overall
site design, good architectural design and visual appearance, street layout, parking design, pedestrian design, lasting
value, and other provisions of this Code relating to public health, safety, and general welfare of the overall community.

All buildings and structures, including residential buildings and dwellings, shall conform to the Design Standard s
from Chapter 37 of the Development Code. Where the requirements of this Chapter conflict with other sections of the
Development Code, the more restrictive provision shall prevail unless otherwise established through the approval
process of the land use plan.

A.      Architecture.

     1. Architectural Orientation. The front façade of all principal buildings shall face onto the street, and shall not
     be oriented towards a parking lot or parking structure (see Figure 2).




Figure 2. The building is oriented with the entrance facing the street and the parking located to the side and rear of the building.

     2. Roof Design. Multi-family apartment and mixed use residential/commercial buildings shall utilize flat roof
     designs (see Figure 3). A design including pitched roof features or an overall pitched roof may be approved at the
     discretion of the Planning Commission.




                                                                         9
Figure 3. The apartment building includes a flat roof design with varying parapet heights and an architectural hierarchy to the street corner.

     3. Entry Features. Porches, roof overhangs, awnings, hooded front doors, pop-outs and/or other architectural
     façade elements shall define the front entrance to all principal structures (see Figure 4).




Figure 4. Building entrances include archways, pop-outs, and roof overhangs.

     4. Non-residential Street Frontage. For non-residential, retail, and office buildings, a minimum of 50 percent of
     the front façade on the ground floor shall be transparent, consisting of true window or door openings allowing
     views into and out of the interior of the building (see Figure 5).




                                                                       10
Figure 5. Retail building with clear windows on the ground floor exceeding 50% of the front façade.

     5. Vertical Separation. Buildings should have a visually distinct base that creates a welcoming environment for
     pedestrians. The lowest level of the building should have more mass and bulk in order to be clearly delineated
     and scaled. The ground floor ceiling height must be greater than the upper floors (see Figure 6).




Figure 6. The ground floor includes large windows and has greater mass and height than the upper floors of the building.

     6.    Building Façade Features.
           a) Planters, trellis features, and window boxes for flowers and climbing vines are encouraged as building
           façade enhancement features.

                                                                      11
         b) Building facades must be aesthetically interesting and pleasing and should avoid a uniform building
         style.
         c) Architectural style, colors, and materials shall be compatible throughout the TOD. A palate of colors and
         building materials shall be submitted with the concept plan.
         d) Roof access ladders and exterior scuppers with down spouts shall not be allowed on a façade facing the
         street.

    7. Utility structures and boxes should be placed to the sides or rear of the building where possible, or equipment
    must be screened if placed in the front. When utility equipment is placed on the sides or rear of a building,
    unobstructed access must be provided to allow ease of maintenance.

B.     Minimum Floor to Area Ratio. All development parcels in a TOD shall meet a minimum floor to area ratio (see
Figure 7) of 1.25 in the initial phase of a project. The ultimate floor to area ratio shall be addressed as part of the
phasing plan and shall demonstrate that surface parking lot areas may be redeveloped in a future phase of the project
to ensure a critical mass of population to support transit and a diverse mix of land use.




    Figure 7. Three examples of a floor to area ratio of 1.0.

C.     Street Patterns. Street patterns shall be oriented along a grid, as opposed to cul-de-sac and curvilinear street
designs. Within the grid are sidewalks and streetscapes that encourage walking and biking, and narrow streets and
other traffic calming features that favor pedestrian activities (see Figure 8). Traffic calming features include but are
not limited to curb extensions, center pedestrian refuges, raised bike and pedestrian crossings, continuous sidewalks,
brick pavers or other textured street surface materials, chokers, or other feature as recommended by the Lehi City


                                                                12
Traffic Engineer. TOD areas shall comply with the street connectivity requirements in Section 37.040 of the
Development Code.




Figure 8. Pedestrian scale street layouts include shorter blocks and a greater level of connectivity.

D.        Streetscapes.

     1. Building Orientation. Buildings shall be oriented to the street with a minimum setback of 25 feet unless an
     alternative plan for power is created and agreed upon by the Lehi Power Department (see Figure 8). Parking lots
     shall not be located along street frontages, but at the rear of lots and screened from street view with berming,
     landscaping, buildings, or other screening features. A minimum of 60 percent of public and private street frontages
     shall include buildings at full buildout.




Figure 8. Buildings are oriented to the street with a minimal setback and power connections located to the rear of the buildings.

     2. Street Trees. Street trees shall be provided on all street frontages, at a minimum of one tree for every 30 feet
     of right-of-way. Street trees may be clustered and need not be evenly spaced. Trees should be placed within park
     strip areas. Any street tree shall have a minimum planter area of 7 feet by 14 feet in accordance with the Lehi City
     Design Standards and Public Improvement Specifications.

     3.     Street Side Treatments.
            a) General Treatments.
                  i. All sidewalks shall be a minimum of five feet in width.
                 ii. Residential streets with an average density of 20 units per acre or more shall include sidewalks with
                     a minimum of eight feet in width. This shall be applied on a block-by block basis to determine a
                     minimum required width. To ensure consistency in the sidewalk width and ensure enough pedestrian


                                                                         13
                    capacity, lower density blocks between blocks of 20 units per acre or more shall match a minimum
                    sidewalk width of eight feet.
               iii. Sidewalks shall be a minimum width of eight feet on streets within a quarter mile of a bus rapid
                    transit or rail station.
               iv. Park strips and tree planter areas shall be placed along all public and private streets with a minimum
                    width of seven feet.
                v. Park strips and sidewalks are not required on alleys. Alleys shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width
                    and only provide access to garages or parking areas.
           b) Non-Residential Treatments. Streets that include non-residential and mixed uses shall include three
           elements within the side treatments (see Figure 9). These elements are as follows:
                 i. Frontage Zone – A section of sidewalk located adjacent to the building that allows building entry,
                    sidewalk cafes, sales displays, and raised planter beds. The minimum frontage zone width shall be
                    five feet. Planter areas may be allowed between the frontage zone area and the building. It is
                    encouraged that pervious materials be used for a frontage zone such as brick pavers.
                ii. Pedestrian Through Zone – This is a sidewalk area that serves as the primary pathway for
                    pedestrians. The pedestrian through zone must not be impeded by street furniture, landscaped beds,
                    signage, displays, or sidewalk cafes. The minimum pedestrian through zone width shall be eight
                    feet. It is encouraged that pervious materials be used for a pedestrian through zone such as brick
                    pavers.
               iii. Street Furniture/Curb Zone – This is the area located between the sidewalk and the street. Features
                    may include street furniture, trees, planter areas, light poles, signage, and curb extensions at
                    crosswalks. The minimum street furniture/curb zone width shall be seven feet which does not
                    include the additional width required for curb extensions. Streets that include separated bike lanes
                    or paths shall place the bike facility between the street furniture/curb zone and the pedestrian through
                    zone. The minimum separated bike lane or path width shall be six feet for a one-way facility and 10
                    feet for a two-way facility.




Figure 9. Side treatment zones for non-residential areas of a TOD.



                                                                     14
     4. Alleys and Interior Block Spaces. Alleys and interior block spaces shall be allowed and encouraged in all
     TODs. Alleys serve as alternate routes to garages and loadings docks that are unseen by the public and therefore
     contribute to a pedestrian-friendly environment. The private, interior portions of the lots (toward the alley) allow
     commercial operators to utilize these spaces as efficient working environments unseen by the public and allow
     residents to have private and semi-private gardens and courtyards. Alleys are to be the primary access to parking
     areas and garages.

E.      Street Design.

     1. Traffic Calming. Traffic calming is intended to slow or reduce motor-vehicle traffic in order to improve
     pedestrian safety. TODs shall provide traffic calming measures, including but not limited to bulb -outs, chokers,
     and pedestrian refuges (see Figure 10).




Figure 10. Bulb-out provides traffic calming, increases visibility to drivers, and shortens pedestrian street crossing distances.

     2. Bicycle Parking. Outdoor short-term bicycle parking facilities shall be located in a secure and well-lit area
     within 50 feet of a building or common facility entrance. Long-term secure bicycle parking is required for office,
     institutional, and multi-family residential uses (see Figure 11).




                                                                         15
Figure 11. Secure bike parking provided within an apartment building.

     3. Bike Facilities. Bike facilities shall be provided in all TODs to ensure safe and convenient local transportation
     options. Bike infrastructure shall interconnect all buildings within a TOD and provide connectivity to the regional
     bike and trails network. Bike infrastructure proposed within a TOD shall be developed and designed based on the
     design speed and volume of a street. The following types of bike facilities shall be provided with the given street
     criteria:
          a. shared lanes and bike boulevards (see Figure 12) may be used where the street’s posted and designed
               speed is 25 miles per hour or less and the existing or projected vehicular traffic volumes are 2,500
               average annual daily trips or less.




Figure 12. Bike boulevards include shared lanes on a low-volume, low speed street with bike and pedestrian prioritization features.

           b.   Protected bike lanes shall be provided along roadways with a posted and designed speed greater than 25
                miles per hour or where the existing or projected vehicular traffic volumes are greater than 2,500 average
                annual daily trips. Streets with two or more travel lanes in a single direction shall provide two-way bike
                facilities on both sides of the street. Streets with one travel lane in each direction may design a two-way
                protected bike lane (see Figure 13) on one side of the street or include single direction protected bike
                lanes on both sides of the street.




                                                                        16
Figure 13. Two-way protected bike lanes encourage use of bikes as a safe and enjoyable form of mobility.

           c.   Shared use paths may be used to provide bike connectivity in an independent right -of-way through the
                center of a block if it interconnects with the local and regional network of bike facilities. Separated bike
                and pedestrian facilities shall be provided in a TOD where there are non-residential uses and where the
                residential density exceeds 20 units per acre. Shared use paths are appropriate in areas with lower
                amounts of foot traffic to limit bike and pedestrian user conflicts.

     4. Medians. Street medians are encouraged for all major collector and arterial rights-of-way. Medians serve to
     improve the aesthetic quality of the area, provide traffic calming, and create pedestrian refuges for street crossings.
     as well as a mid-block resting place for street crossings. Medians should be a minimum of six feet wide at
     intersections and crosswalks and a minimum of three feet wide at other portions of the road. Where medians are
     not included in the design of a street, bike and pedestrian crossings shall include refuge islands at intersections
     and mid-block crossings (see Figure 14). Center medians and crossing islands shall be designed with plowable
     end sections to ensure ease of winter maintenance.




                                                                      17
Figure 14. Pedestrian refuge within a central median.

F.      Sidewalks and Pedestrian Circulation.

     1. Pedestrian Circulation. Convenient and safe pedestrian circulation systems shall be provided to minimize
     pedestrian-auto conflict and shall be provided continuously throughout each TOD. All streets, except for alleys,
     shall be bordered by sidewalks and park strips on both sides of the right-of-way, in accordance with the Lehi City
     Design Standards and Specifications.

     2. Walkway Connections. Pedestrian walkways shall interconnect all building entrances, sidewalks, parking
     areas, open spaces, public and private streets, and transit stations.

     3. Primary Pedestrian Corridor. A primary pedestrian corridor shall be developed through a TOD to collect
     pedestrians and direct them to the transit station and shall meet the following requirements:
         a) the corridor shall include a minimum 10-foot wide walkway constructed of concrete or brick pavers.
         b) the corridor must be visible from adjacent buildings, parking areas, and the transit station.
         c) wayfinding signs shall be placed to direct pedestrians to the transit station and to other nearby
         destinations.
         d) landscaping shall be placed along both sides of the walkway with a minimum width of 10 feet with trees
         spaced every 30 feet in planter areas.
         e) benches and trash receptacles shall be placed along the walkway.
         f) the walkway shall be well lit with pedestrian scale lighting.
         g) crime prevention through environmental design (CPTED) standards shall be utilized to increase natural
         surveillance and deter crime. The following shall be incorporated in the design of the walkway:
            i. the walkway shall not be obstructed with opaque fencing,
           ii. entrapment zones (areas with low visibility and no alternative exits) shall not be created with the
               placement of fencing, buildings, or other features; and
          iii. windows on building facades facing the walkway shall have clear glass.
         h) the walkway shall connect directly to the transit station and interconnect adjacent buildings, streets, open
         spaces, and parking areas.
         i) sidewalks from adjacent buildings and streets shall stub into the walkway.



                                                          18
     4. Raised Walkways. Where practical, pedestrian walkways shall be raised above grade of streets, drives,
     parking lots, and other paved areas. Where pedestrian walkways cannot be raised, they shall be constructed of a
     material differing in texture, material, or color.

     5. Continuous Sidewalks and Bike Facilities. Flared drive approaches that ramp up to the sidewalk and bike
     path level or other raised crossing (see Figure 15) shall be used where local private streets, alleys, driveways,
     commercial accesses, and any other private access crosses a sidewalk, trail, protected bike lane, or other bike
     path. Private streets may ramp down after crossing sidewalks and bike facilities.




Figure 15. The trail and sidewalk run continuously and built with consistent materials whereas vehicular traffic must ramp up to cross the bike
path and sidewalk. This slows traffic at a bike and pedestrian conflict point and indicates to drivers that they are entering a bike and pedestrian
space.

G.      Signage.

     1. General Signage Concepts. Proper design and placement of signs and their lighting shall be compatible with
     structures and uses. Signs shall meet the requirements of Chapter 23 of the Development Code where not
     specifically regulated in this section.

     2. Number of Signs. The number of signs on a structure shall be limited and placed in areas that contribute to
     the architecture of the building. Signs shall not overpower a storefront nor obscure display windows or significant
     building features.

     3. Encouraged Signs. Wall signs, awning signs, canopy signs, projecting signs (see Figure 16), and suspended
     signs shall be encouraged.




                                                                       19
Figure 16. Projecting sign is pedestrian oriented and contributes to the character of the building.

     4. Discouraged Signs. Monument signs and directional signs are discouraged. If approved, the maximum height
     of a monument sign shall be four feet in height and shall be used to advertise by multiple tenants and/or users.

     5. Electronic Display Sign. Signs with Electronic Display Sign, as defined by Chapter 23 of the Development
     Code, shall not be permitted in the TOD Zone.

     6. Pylon Signs. Pylon signs, as defined by Chapter 23 of the Development Code, shall not be permitted in the
     TOD Zone.

Section 38.080. Parking requirements.
A.      A successful TOD can significantly reduce per capita motor vehicle travel, thus parking requirements within a
TOD may be reduced from the minimum standards as required by Table 37.090 of this Code. As the intent of a TOD
is to encourage pedestrian activity and transit ridership, a developer may request a reduction in the number of parking
spaces by City approval, providing that the developer submit information as to the forecasted trips generated in
contrast to what is forecasted for transit ridership for the TOD. Requests for a reduction in parking may be approved
by the City Council, following review by the DRC and Planning Commission.

B.     Shared parking agreements shall be encouraged between all uses within a TOD, as per the provisions of Chapter
37 of this Code.

C.     On-street parking is permitted and encouraged, and shall be included in the total development required parking
calculations, if incorporated. On-street parking shall be included in the required parking calculations for a use or
structure which fronts, and is adjacent to the on-street parking stall.

D.      Ingress and egress for parking lots shall be from side streets or alleys.

E.     All parking lots shall be located behind or on the side of buildings (see Figure 17). Parking and maneuvering
areas shall not be located between the primary entrance to a building and the abutting street, unless its purpose is to
provide a direct life-safety function. If parking is located on the side of the building, rather than at the rear, screening
and buffering shall be provided to minimize the visual impact.




                                                                        20
Figure 17. Off-street parking is located on the rear sides of the buildings.


F.     A parking lot or garage may not be adjacent to or opposite a street intersection, nor may any portion of a parking
lot front a collector-size or larger classified street without specific City approval.

G.     For all residential structures within a TOD, the physical and visual presence of garages and parking structures
shall be minimized. Where garages are attached to a residential dwelling, the dwelling must be a rear -loading
configuration that requires the garage to be accessed by an alley. The front door of the unit must face the street or
greenway and include a sidewalk connection. Multi-family developments that include a parking structure must conceal
the structure behind or be wrapped around by the primary residential structure (see Figure 18).




Figure 18. The primary residential structure conceals the parking structure.

To help reduce parking demand. increase use of transit and active transportation, and increase social equity to
moderate or low income households, it is encouraged that parking costs for multi-family residential projects be
unbundled from apartment rental rates. Parking fees can be charged separately for residents who would like to have
a designated parking space. It is encouraged that annual transit passes be provided to all residents within a multi -


                                                                         21
family residential project to encourage greater transit use. This option is intended to reduce the number of needed
parking spaces and should be approved with a reduction to required parking.




                                                          22
