                  PLATINUM PEAK FLAG LOT CONDITIONAL USE
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Lyndon Dangerfield
                         Meeting Date         November 13, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed conditional use
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        850 North 1200 East
                          Project Area        0.99 acres
                       Existing Zoning        R-1-Flex
              General Plan Designation        Low Density Residential
                    Existing Land Use         Single Family Home
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North R-1-8                     Single Family Homes
                                                 South RA-1                      Single Family Homes
                                                  East Unincorporated            Unincorporated
                                                  West R-1-8                     Church Building
                     Date of DRC Review       October 15, 2025
                       Assigned Planner       Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 09.060. Conditions
A. Conditions. In granting a Conditional Use permit, the Commission may impose such requirements and conditions
which the Commission, in its sole discretion, deems necessary for the protection of persons and properties in the
vicinity of the proposed Conditional Use, as well as the preservation of the integrity of the General Plan. Said require-
ments and conditions may include (but are not limited to) location, construction, size, maintenance, operation, site
planning, traffic control and parking, relocations, dedications, installation and upgrading of public services and roads,
and time limits for the proposed Conditional Use, in addition to the following non-exclusive list of potential require-
ments and conditions:

    1. That the site will be suitably landscaped and maintained and that the design, setbacks, fences, walls and buffers
    of all buildings and other structures are adequate to protect property and preserve and/or enhance the appearance
    and character of the area.
    2. That all buildings or other structures are architecturally attractive and add to the quality of the area.
    3. Provision of parking facilities, including vehicular ingress and egress and the surfacing of parking areas and
    driveways to specified standards.
    4. Street and highway dedication and improvements, including sidewalks, curbs and gutters.
    5. Water supply and fire protection.
    6. The mitigation of nuisance factors such as noise, vibrations, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases, noxious matter,
    heat, glare, electro-magnetic disturbances and radiation.
    7. The regulation of operating hours for activities affecting normal neighborhood schedules and functions.
    8. Regulation of signs.
    9. Provisions for a guarantee, bond or other surety that the proposed conditional use will be maintained and op-
    erated in compliance with all approval conditions and requirements.
    10. Such other conditions determined necessary by the Commission to allow the establishment and operation of
    the proposed conditional use in an orderly and efficient manner and in compliance with all elements of the General
    Plan, and the intent and purpose of this Code.
The Commission may require guarantees, bonds, or other assurances that such requirements and conditions are being,
or will be, satisfied, including (but not limited to) requiring an applicant to prepare and record covenants running with
the land and to be binding upon the applicant and its successors in interest

Section 12.210. Flag Lot Standards.
A.     Definition. A flag lot is defined as a lot in a residential zoning district that does not meet the required frontage
on a public street. A flag lot has two distinct parts: the flag, which contains the buildable area and is located behind
another lot; and the pole, which connects the flag to the street, provides the only street frontage for the lot, and contains
less than the minimum lot frontage for the zone.

B.     Purpose. Flag lots are intended to apply only to exceptionally deep or odd shaped parcels that are isolated from
public streets and would be difficult to develop or utilize in any other way. The applicant shall demonstrate that a
flag lot is the most appropriate development option and that it will not detract from the surrounding neighborhood.

C.        Minimum Requirements. A flag lot shall meet the following minimum requirements:

     1. The pole portion of the lot shall have at least 20 feet of frontage on a dedicated public street, which frontage
     serves as access only to the subject lot.

     2. The flag lot shall have a hard surfaced driveway from the public street to the required parking area for the
     flag lot with a minimum 20-foot wide drivable surface from lip of gutter to lip of gutter, per the cross section in
     this subsection (See Figure 5). Adequate provisions as determined by the City Engineer shall be made for drain-
     age of the driveway such as curb and gutter, berming, swales, or underground piping. Curb and gutter shall be
     constructed in conformance with the Road-5 standard drawing in the Lehi City Design Standards and Public
     Improvements Specifications manual.

     3.     Not more than one flag lot shall be created from an existing lot or parcel.

     4. The remainder of the lot or parcel from which the flag lot is being divided shall maintain all of the required
     zoning standards, including frontage.

     5. A flag lot cannot be created as part of a subdivision where there are more than two lots in the subdivision or
     from an illegally divided lot.

     6.     Only one single family dwelling shall be allowed on a flag lot.

     7. The width of the pole of the flag lot shall be not less than 20 feet of drivable surface unless otherwise recom-
     mended by the City Engineer and Fire Marshal and approved by the Planning Commission.
     8. The pole portion shall maintain the required width for its entire length and a vertical clearance of thirteen and
     one half feet high.

     9. The single family dwelling unit shall be located within 250 feet of a fire hydrant measured along the curb
     line, in accordance with the City’s latest Design Standards and Public Improvement Specifications.

     10. The flag portion of the lot shall meet the minimum square footage and width requirements of the applicable
     zone.

     11. Front, rear, and side yard setback requirements of the flag portion of the lot shall be the same as required in
     the applicable zone.

     12. The shape of a flag lot shall be approved by the Planning Commission as part of the subdivision ap-
     proval. Doglegs and jagged, irregular shapes may not be acceptable.

     13. The pole portion of the lot shall be part of the lot, not an access easement, and shall be designated as a public
     utility easement.

     14. “No parking” signs may be required on the pole portion of the lot as deemed necessary by the Planning
     Commission.
    15. The street address for the flag lot shall be clearly identified so that it is visible from the public street with
    either an address label on the mailbox or a separate address marker.

    16. All applicable street improvements including curb, gutter, and sidewalk shall be installed along the frontage
    of both the flag lot and the lot or parcel from which it is being subdivided.

    17. No accessory building shall be allowed on the flagpole portion of the lot. This subsection shall not be inter-
    preted to prohibit aesthetic entry features, such as archways, decorative mailboxes, raised landscape beds, or
    similar structures.

    18. The Planning Commission may impose additional conditions on flag lots including:
        (a) location and height of the dwelling;
        (b) compatibility of the proposed project with existing conditions; and
        (c) screening and landscaping.

    19. When the flag lot area is less than 10,000 square feet, five feet of landscaping including evergreens or other
    tall shrubs that provide a visual barrier and a six-foot sight-obscuring fence shall be required along the perimeter
    of the flag lot to screen the flag lot from neighboring properties.

D.      Approval Process. The Planning Commission shall have authority to approve a flag lot as a conditional use in
accordance with the requirements of this Section and Chapter 9, Conditional Uses, of this Code. Requests for a flag
lot are also subject to the subdivision requirements and approval process as per Chapter 11, Development Application
Requirements, of this Code.

  PROPERTY HISTORY
December 10, 1984          Property was annexed into the City as the Joseph Hansen et al Properties

  REPORT ANALYSIS
The applicant requests approval of the Platinum Peak Flag Lot located at 850 North 1200 East in the R-1-Flex zone.
The proposal includes two lots, the first is over 10,000 square feet in size and the other is over 32,000 feet. The
proposed lots also meet the frontage requirements of 80 feet for the front lot, and 20 feet for the stem portion of the
flag lot.

In order for the existing home to meet the setback requirements a portion of the garage will have to be removed. One
of the DRC comments informs the applicant that they need to provide a one-car garage to replace the existing one.
They also will need to increase the existing driveway to 20 feet of hard surface.

Flag lots allow for conditions of the orientation of the home or buffering if there are concerns with surrounding prop-
erties. The Planning Commission should consider if any impacts beyond the normal impacts of a single-family home
or flag lot exist on this lot.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Conditional uses are allowed uses that can have reasonable conditions (like the orientation of the home or buffering
requirements) put on it for approval.

Residents can speak on this item. Comments on specific concerns are the most beneficial.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or approve with conditions the proposed flag lot. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:
1.   The proposed flag lot meets the requirements of the Code.
2.   The proposed flag lot will provide additional housing in ways that are compatible with the surrounding neighbor-
     hood.
3.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          October 15, 2025

                                                     Platinum Peak Flag Lot
                                                     DRC Redline Comments

Lyndon Dangerfield- requests review of the Platinum Peak Flag Lot Conditional Use and Two-Lot Subdivision located at
850 North 1200 East.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Lyndon Dangerfield and Adam Peterson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/02/25
Time Start: 1:06 pm
Time End: 1:26 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. A 10’ PUE for dry utilities is required for dry utilities that is not part of the paved access for flag lot and existing lot
    along 1200 East frontage.
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire:
2. Install fire hydrant near the access to the flag lot.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
James – Parks:
3. As per Chapter 18.030.A “For all sides of the development adjacent to agricultural property, there is a minimum
    fencing requirement of a six-foot high non-climb agricultural fence” Entirety of the south side needs a fence.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
4. Add a setback table to the plat.
Shelbey – Public Works:
Gary E. – Engineering:
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
5. Add in line to write name and position in LLC in the owner's dedication
6. The address for lot 2 will be 858 North
7. The hard driveable surface needs to be 20 feet wide. Extend existing concrete driveway
8. Show where a replacement for the one garage space will be provided. It can be a detached garage structure behind the
    house.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)

ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:

THE CHECK-OFF PROCESS WILL TAKE AT LEAST A MONTH FROM THE TIME PLANS AND COST
ESTIMATE ARE RECEIVED. IT IS THE APPLICANTS RESPONSIBIILTY TO ALLOCATE AN
APPROPRIATE AMOUNT OF TIME.

APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
   improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          October 15, 2025

4.  Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
    supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
    necessary supplies for the development.
5. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
6. Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).
7. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
8. Address any comments or conditions from Planning Commission approval of the preliminary
9. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled
10. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting


PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:

RECORDING OF A PLAT WILL TAKE AT LEAST TWO WEEKS FROM THE TIME THE MYLAR IS
RECEIVED IN PERSON.

1.  Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2.  Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3.  Submit a title report to the planner over the project for review.
4.  Developer shall provide a letter with an exhibit of the property covered from their title company guaranteeing that the
    property taxes including rollback/greenbelt taxes have been paid of open space or right of way is being dedicated.
5. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
6. Provide a recorded copy of required boundary line agreement(s).
7. Provide a signed original copy of the CC&Rs to record with the plat (to be reviewed by City Attorney).
8. Warranty deed/title insurance (open space, detention, City park property, City trails, some road dedication). Title
    insurance policies on each to be obtained through Marnae at Affiliated First Title 801-610-1670
9. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.
STAFF
10. Send a digital copy of the plat to the County for review prior to accepting printed mylar.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 3
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          October 15, 2025

    provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
    loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
    construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON NOVEMBER 13th

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                3 of 3
