                  JDH PROPERTIES’ DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                           Applicant          John Hadfield
                       Meeting Date           October 15, 2025
            Requested Action/Purpose          Review and recommendation of a proposed Development Agreement
                       Decision Type          Legislative
                            Location          Approximately 2200 West Stockton Lane

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                 Planning Commission          Review and recommendation
                         City Council         Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 29.020. Criteria for Entering into a Development Agreement.
The city may enter into a development agreement only if the development agreement:

    A. Has been duly adopted by the City Council in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

    B. The proposed development to which the development agreement pertains is in conformity with the gen-
       eral plan, zoning district regulations, and other applicable requirements of the City.

    C. The proposed development subject to the agreement contains outstanding features that advance the pol-
       icies, goals and objectives of Lehi City, or the property owner agrees to provide capital improvements
       that exceed the development's proportionate share of the costs of the facilities needed to service the
       development, which hereby advance the provision of facilities to serve Lehi City.


 APPLICABLE STATE CODE REGULATIONS

10-9a-532
(2) (a) A development agreement may not:
        (i) limit a municipality's authority in the future to:
             (A) enact a land use regulation; or
            (B) take any action allowed under Section 10-8-84;
        (ii) require a municipality to change the zoning designation of an area of land within the municipality in
             the future; or
        (iii) allow a use or development of land that applicable land use regulations governing the area subject to
              the development agreement would otherwise prohibit, unless the legislative body approves the devel-
              opment agreement in accordance with the same procedures for enacting a land use regulation under
              Section 10-9a-502, including a review and recommendation from the planning commission and a pub-
              lic hearing.




JDH Properties Development Agreement
  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of the JDH Properties Development Agreement adding 30 resi-
dential units to the West Project Development Agreement.

The West Project Development Agreement was approved in 2022 with the East Development Agreement. These orig-
inal agreements provided for the land to create the loop road around the Common Spirit Holy Cross Hospital and
allowed 125 residential units on the parcels located at approximately 2200 West Stockton Lane.

This new Development Agreement would add an additional 30 residential units to the 125 totaling 155 residential
units. This number will increase the viability of development. This location also provides a good place for people to
live near restaurants, the Rail and Murdock Trail systems, and quick freeway access.

The Reviewing Departments had five redline comments including:
1. City Council consider changing the zoning as part of this. Having residential in a commercially zoned area is
    legal non-conforming, can lead to struggles with insurance for the owners, and brings up weird questions if some-
    one wants to open a commercial business in their apartment and they are zoned commercial, is it allowed or not?
    It is so much cleaner when we rezone to a residential zone.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Development Agreements are legislative items at the full discretion of the City Council. The Planning Commission
reviews the Development Agreement and can recommend any changes to the City Council.

The public can also speak to this item and express any concerns or support for the development agreement. The public
can also suggest changes to the language of the agreement.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may provide a positive or negative recommendation on the proposed Grant’s Corner
Development Agreement revision. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   Adding residential units to this area will provide people close access to restaurants, trail and regional road
         access.
    2.   The proposed Development Agreement amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and
         provisions of the General Plan and its various elements.
    3.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




JDH Properties Development Agreement
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          October 15, 2025

                                            JDH Property Development Agreement
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

John Hadfield- requests review of the JDH Property Development Agreement adding 30 residential units to the West
Project Development Agreement.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present:
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/07/25
Time Start: 1:28pm
Time End: 1:34pm


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
FYI development of this site will require a circuit study. (or update to previous study) to determine capacity available or
projects needed to provide power capacity.
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
1. Add “Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement”
2. Update language to reference the west project development agreement that runs with the land. The later sentence
    makes it sound like it is not valid anymore and this new agreement is the only binding agreement.
3. Any needed infrastructure to support this development shall be paid for by the developer.
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
4. City Council consider changing the zoning as part of this. Having residential in a commercially zoned area is legal non
    conforming, can lead to struggles with insurance for the owners, and brings up weird questions if someone wants to
    open a commercial business in their apartment and they are zoned commercial, is it allowed or not? It is so much
    cleaner when we rezone to a residential zone.
5. We need to include the elements from the original development agreement, including having the connecting trail.




THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON NOVEMBER 13th




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
                                                                                  DRAFT 9-9-2025


                               DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

        This DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) effective as of the date the last
Party signs below (“Effective Date”) by and among Lehi City, a political subdivision of the State
of Utah (“City”) and JDH Development, L.L.C., a Utah limited liability company and/or its assigns
(“Developer”). The City and the Developer are hereinafter referred to individually as a “Party”
and collectively as the “Parties.”

                                            RECITALS

        A.      City, acting pursuant to its authority under Municipal Land Use, Development, and
Management Act, Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-9a-101, -803, as amended, and in furtherance of its land
use policies, goals, objectives, ordinances, and regulations of Lehi City, in the exercise of its
legislative discretion, has elected to approve and enter into this Agreement.

       B.     Developer owns that certain real property containing approximately 3.8383 acres
and located in City as more particularly described on Exhibit A attached hereto (the “JDH
Property”).

        C.     City entered into the West Project Development Agreement on March 10, 2022
with Lehi Pointe L.L.C. for a mixed commercial and residential development. Developer has
purchased the residential development from Lehi Pointe L.L.C. with the intent of moving forward
with the residential development. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Developer
desires to develop the JDH Property as a residential development (the JDH Property together with
all such improvements is referred to as the “JDH Project”).

        D.      City recognizes that the development of the JDH Project may result in tangible
benefits to City including better roadway connectivity in the area; and that the JDH Project may
enhance further economic development efforts in the vicinity of the Property, and City is therefore
willing to enter into this Agreement, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein.

                                          AGREEMENT

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants, and provisions
set forth herein, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as
follows:

                                            ARTICLE 1

        1.1    Purpose of Agreement. The purpose of this Agreement is to reduce to writing the
respective understandings and agreements of the Parties with regard to the proposed development
of the JDH Project. It is the desire of the respective Parties that development of the Project proceed
in such a manner as to benefit the residents of City as well as Developer. This Agreement contains
certain requirements for land use and development of the JDH Project in addition to those
contained in the Lehi City Development Code (the “Code”), City ordinances, design standards,
rules and regulations of the City governing the development of real property within the City as of
the Effective Date (collectively, the “Ordinances”).


                                                  1
                                                                                 DRAFT 9-9-2025


       1.2    Permitted Uses. Per the West Development Agreement which granted rights to
Developer, the project area is already permitted for 125 multifamily residential (apartment,
condominium, or townhome) units. Upon approval of the Agreement, the JDH Project shall be
permitted 30 multifamily residential (apartment, condominium, or townhome) units. Total number
of permitted units for the project area not to exceed 155 multifamily residential (apartment,
condominium, or townhome).

         1.3    Description of the JDH Project. Developer intends to develop the JDH Project into
stacked residential units, with related amenities, that will enhance the potential success of the new
retail shopping and restaurant uses in the area. Developer will develop the JDH Project under the
current Commercial Zone and any residential development shall comply with the standards and
approval procedures for multi-family residential development found in Chapter 37 of the Code as
well as all other applicable Ordinances. Developer will provide bike and pedestrian connectivity
between the multifamily residential units, the Digital Drive Trail, and the Rail Trail.

       1.4      Concessions. The Property is currently zoned Commercial which doesn’t allow for
high density residential. Lehi City has diligently worked on identifying and implementing the
needed infrastructure to support the authorized one hundred and twenty-five (125) multifamily
residential units and the additional thirty (30) multifamily residential units.

        1.5    Water Rights. Water rights shall be required for any multi-family residential
development as a condition of site plan approval per Section 27.070 of the Code. The total amount
of culinary water shall be calculated for the 155 residential units.

        1.6     Approval of Agreement. The following are conditions precedent to the obligations
of the Parties hereunder:

              a. Lehi City Planning Commission approval of a concept plan for the 155
                 residential units described herein.

              b. Prepayment of culinary impact fees for the 155 units described herein upon site
                 plan approval for those units.

       1.5     Covenant Running with the Land. This Agreement constitutes a covenant running
with the land and shall be recorded against the JDH Property.

                                            ARTICLE 2

        2.1    Breach and Cure. Any material failure by any Party to perform any term or
provision of this Agreement, which breach continues uncured for a period of thirty (30) days
following written notice of such failure from the non-defaulting Party, unless such period is
extended by written mutual consent, shall constitute a default under this Agreement. Any notice
given pursuant to the preceding sentence shall specify the nature of the alleged breach and, where
appropriate, the manner in which said breach satisfactorily may be cured. If the nature of the
alleged breach is such that it cannot reasonably be cured within such 30-day period, then the
commencement of the cure within such time period, and the diligent prosecution to completion of
the cure thereafter, shall be deemed to be a cure within such 30-day period. Upon the occurrence


                                                 2
                                                                                 DRAFT 9-9-2025


of an uncured breach or default under this Agreement, the non-defaulting Party may institute legal
proceedings to enforce the terms of this Agreement at law or in equity.

                                            ARTICLE 3

        3.1     No Agency, Joint Venture or Partnership. It is specifically understood and agreed
to by and between the Parties that this Agreement does not create any form of agency relationship,
joint venture, or partnership expressed or implied between them.

        3.2    Severability. If any term or provision of this Agreement, or the application of any
term or provision of this Agreement to a particular situation, is held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remaining terms and provisions of this
Agreement, or the application of this Agreement to other situations, shall continue in full force and
effect unless amended or modified by mutual consent of the Parties.

        3.3   Other Necessary Acts. Each Party shall execute and deliver to the other any further
instruments and documents as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the objectives and intent
of this Agreement.

        3.4    Construction/Interpretation. The Parties acknowledge that each has had the
opportunity to have this Agreement reviewed and revised by legal counsel and no presumption or
rule that ambiguities shall be construed against the drafting Party shall apply to the interpretation
or enforcement of this Agreement.

       3.5     Other Miscellaneous Terms. The singular shall include the plural; the masculine
gender shall include the feminine; “shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissive.

       3.6     Waiver. No action taken by any Party shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of
compliance by such Party with respect to any representation, warranty, or condition contained in
this Agreement. Any waiver by any Party of a breach of any provision of this Agreement shall not
operate or be construed as a waiver by such Party of any subsequent breach.

       3.7     Utah Law. This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the
laws of the State of Utah.

        3.8     Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing. Each Party shall use its best efforts and
take and employ all necessary actions in good faith consistent with this Agreement to ensure that
the rights secured by the other Parties through this Agreement can be enjoyed.

        3.9    Representations. Each Party hereby represents and warrants to each other Party
that the following statements are true, complete and not misleading as regards the representing
warranting Party;

                       (a)      Such Party is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing
under the laws of the state of its organization.




                                                 3
                                                                                    DRAFT 9-9-2025


                        (b)     Such Party has full authority to enter into this Agreement and to
perform all of its obligations hereunder. The individual(s) executing this Agreement on behalf of
such Party do so with the full authority of the Party that those individual(s) represent.

                     (c)     This Agreement constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation
of such Party enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to the rules of bankruptcy,
moratorium and equitable principles.

      3.10 No Third-Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement is between the City and the
Developer. No other party shall be deemed a third-party beneficiary or have any rights under this
Agreement.

         3.11 Force Majeure. No liability or breach of this Agreement shall result from delay in
performance or nonperformance caused, directly or indirectly, by circumstances beyond the
reasonable control of the Party affected, including, but not limited to, fire, extreme weather,
terrorism, explosion, flood, war, power interruptions, the act of other governmental bodies,
accident, labor trouble or the shortage or inability to obtain material, service, personnel, equipment
or transportation, failure of performance by a common carrier, failure of performance by a public
utility, or vandalism.

       3.12    Notices.

         Any notice or communication required hereunder between the parties must be in writing,
and may be given either personally or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. If
given by registered or certified mail, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been
given and received on the first to occur of (i) actual receipt by any of the addressees designated
below as the Party to whom notices are to be sent, or (ii) five (5) days after a registered or certified
letter containing such notice, properly addressed, with postage prepaid, is deposited in the United
States mail. If personally delivered, a notice shall be deemed to have been given when delivered
to the Party to whom it is addressed. Any Party may at any time, by giving ten (10) days written
notice to the other Party, designate any other address to which notices or communications shall be
given. Such notices or communications shall be given to the Parties at their addresses set forth
below:

                       If to the City:
                       The Honorable Mayor Mark Johnson
                       Lehi City
                       153 North 100 East
                       Lehi, UT 84043

With Copies to:
                       Ryan Wood
                       Lehi City Attorney
                       153 North 100 East
                       Lehi, UT 84043

                       If to Developer:

                                                   4
                                                                               DRAFT 9-9-2025


                      JDH Development LLC
                      Attn: Austin Cooper
                      P.O. Box 437
                      Lehi, UT 84043

        3.13 Entire Agreement, Counterparts and Exhibits. Unless otherwise noted herein, this
Agreement is the final and exclusive understanding and agreement of the Parties and supersedes
all negotiations or previous agreements between the Parties with respect to all or any part of the
subject matter hereof. All waivers of the provisions of this Agreement shall be in writing and
signed by the appropriate authorities of City and Developer. The exhibits attached hereto and
hereby incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement.




                                                5
                                                                      DRAFT 9-9-2025


      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been entered into by and between City, and
Developer as of the date the last party signs blow.




                                               LEHI CITY CORPORATION




                                               By:   Mark Johnson
                                               Its:  Mayor
                                               Date:
ATTEST:



Teisha Wilson
City Recorder




                                           6
                                                                            DRAFT 9-9-2025




                                                  JDH Development, L.L.C.




                                                  By:
                                                  Its: ___________________________
                                                  Date:

STATE OF UTAH                )
                             ss:
COUNTY OF                    )

       On this________ day of ___________, 2025 before me, _____________________ a
notary public, personally appeared before me __________________________, whose identity is
personally known to me (or proven on the basis of satisfactory evidence) and who by me duly
sworn/affirmed, did say that he is the ___________________ of Howland Partners, Inc. and that
said document was signed by him in behalf of said Company by Authority of its Articles of
Organization, Operating Agreement, or (Resolution of its Manager(s)), and said
_____________________________ acknowledged to me that said Company executed the same.

Witness my hand and official seal.



______________________________
Notary Public
                                                         (notary seal)




                                             7
                                                                      DRAFT 9-9-2025




                         Exhibit A – JDH Property Legal Description



Parcel No. 67:185:0102

Legal Description: LOT 102, MOUNTAIN SLOPES URBAN LIVING SUB AREA 1.654 AC.

Parcel No. 67:185:0101

Legal Description: LOT 101, MOUNTAIN SLOPES URBAN LIVING SUB AREA 2.184 AC.




                                             8
