                                       GURNEY CONCEPT PLAN
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant         Russell Wilson
                          Meeting Date          November 13, 2025
              Requested Action/Purpose          Review and consideration of a concept plan
                         Decision Type          Administrative
                               Location         Approximately 1200 West 800 North
                           Project Area         8.62 acres
                        Existing Zoning         TH-5 (Concurrently filed Zone Change to R-1-22)
      General Plan Land Use Designation         VLDRA
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use              North R-1-22           Church
                                                   South R-1-22           Single family residential
                                                    East R-1-22           Single family residential
                                                    West R-1-22           Single family residential
                      Date of DRC Review        October 22, 2025
                        Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission        Public hearing, review, and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of the Gurney Concept Plan located at approximately 1200 West
800 North. The development plan includes 12 lots that meet the minimum lot size of 22,000 square feet. The applicant
is not requesting any exceptions. They came to Planning Commission to show their proposed layout and see if there
was any feedback.

As this is a concept plan the applicant will return with a preliminary subdivision submission at a later date. Staff and
the DRC will continue to work with the applicant as they move forward.

DRC Comments
There were six redline comments from the DRC, many of which were informational requirements for the site plan
application. Some of note include:

    1.   This subdivision will need to detain their own storm water. At time of final site plan, show the location of the
         storm drain detention.
    2.   Consider coordinating with the adjacent owner to tie into the existing pedestrian connection on the south side
         of the church.
    3.   Coordinate with city to clean up boundary on lot 6.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.




Gurney Subdivision Concept Plan
  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a concept plan this is an administrative item. If it meets the Code, it must be approved.

This is a public hearing item. Comments focused on specific concerns and ways to mitigate them are the most
beneficial. The public should also be aware that the Planning Commission can only require those items listed in the
Development Code.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve, approve with modifications, or deny the proposed concept plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
    2. The proposed concept does/does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Gurney Subdivision Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                           October 22, 2025

                                                 Gurney Property Concept Plan
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Symphony Homes- requests review of the Gurney Property Concept, a 12-lot single family residential subdivision located
at approximately 1200 West 800 North.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Russell Wilson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/13/25
Time Start: 1:50
Time End: 2:13

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. Requires PUE on both sides of all roads. (North side of road on Church property.)
Brad – Fiber: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
2. A soil report will be required if this moves past concept.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering:
3. This subdivision will need to detain their own storm water. At time of final site plan, show the location of the storm
    drain detention.
4. The improvements on the north side of the waste ditch are required including the dedication.
Luke – Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
5. Consider coordinating with the adjacent owner to tie into the existing pedestrian connection on the south side of the
    church.
6. Coordinate with city to clean up boundary on lot 6.




DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).

THIS ITEM IS NOT REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.
(An exception requires stamped addressed envelopes for public noticing if the project proceeds to Planning Commission)

THIS ITEM WILL GO TO PLANNING COMMISSION ON NOVEMBER 13, 2025.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
October 14, 2025


Lehi City Planning & Zoning
C/O Mr. Jacob Curtis
153 North 100 East
Lehi, Utah 84043

RE: Concept Review for approximately 8.62 Acres Located at Approximately 1200 West 800 North
(Utah County Parcel No. 40-498-0006)

Dear Mr. Curtis:

Please see the enclosed Application for Concept Review to be reviewed jointly with the Application for
Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 8.62 acres located at approximately 1200 West 800 North,
Lehi (the “Property”).

Symphony Development (“Symphony”) is seeking a zoning map amendment from TH-5 to R-1-22 zoning
for the Property as well as concept plan approval for a 12-lot single-family residential subdivision.

We appreciate your consideration of our application and look forward to continuing to work with you to
create a beautiful community that Lehi City and its residents can be proud of for many generations to
come. Feel free to reach out to me at (801) 691-4843 or rwilson@symphonydev.com with any questions
or concerns.

Sincerely,


Russell Wilson
Vice President, Symphony Development
