                                       GURNEY ZONE CHANGE
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant         Russell Wilson
                                Meeting Date          November 13, 2025
                     Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing, review, and recommendation of a proposed zone
                                                      change
                              Decision Type           Legislative
                                   Location           Approximately 1200 West 800 North
                                    Acreage           8.62 acres
                            Existing Zoning           TH-5
 Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           VLDRA
               Proposed Zoning Designation            R-1-22
                          Existing Land Use           Single family residential
             Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North R-1-22              Church
                                                       South R-1-22             Single family residential
                                                        East R-1-22             Single family residential
                                                        West R-1-22             Single family residential
                            Date of DRC Review        October 22, 2025
                              Assigned Planner        Jacob Curtis

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                          Planning Commission         Public hearing, review, and recommendation
                                  City Council        Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

From Section 04.060 Criteria for Approval, of the Lehi City Development Code, the Planning Commission should con-
sider the following factors, among others, when reviewing a zone amendment:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The gain to the public health, safety, and welfare from the existing classification to the proposed amendment;
         and
    7.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.


  APPLICABLE GENERAL PLAN GOALS AND POLICIES

VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL (VLDRA)

The purpose of the Very Low Density Residential/Agricultural (VLDRA) classification is to provide for single-family




Gurney Zone Change
residential areas within a rural setting, with an overall neighborhood density not to exceed 1.75 units per acre. Much of
the area designated as VLDRA is located where small-scale farming, hobby farming, or other agricultural uses are pre-
sent. Where new development is allowed adjacent to existing agricultural areas, the new development must be sensitive
to the existing uses. Larger lot sizes and lower density zones that allow for animal rights will be encouraged where ad-
jacent to such agricultural areas. In particular, provision should be made for hobby farms, ranchettes, or equestrian-
related developments where the development is to be located adjacent to similar existing uses.

Although new development in VLDRA areas is allowed, the existing agricultural uses will be encouraged to remain.
Growth should be directed in an orderly manner, growing outward from existing developed areas where public facilities
are available.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

March 17, 2000              The Gary G. Gurney Addition incorporated this property into Lehi City.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation for a zone change from TH-5 to R-1-22 for a portion of the property
located at approximately 1200 West 800 North. This zone change on 8.62 acres of property will include lots that meet the
minimum lot size of 22,000 square feet. A concept plan was concurrently submitted that shows the development plan.
The proposed R-1-22 zoning aligns with the Very Low-Density Residential Agriculture designation in the General
Plan.

The Development Review Committee (DRC) reviewed the proposed zone change and had one comment regarding
water dedication: Water dedication will be required as a condition prior to recording the zone change ordinance.

  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Zone changes are legislative items. However, the City sets an expectation of the zoning by the General Plan Designa-
tions. This proposed zone change is consistent with the General Plan Land Use Designation, so the Planning Commis-
sion and City Council would need specific reasons to not approve the zone change.

The public can speak to this item, understanding that it will be approved unless there are significant legitimate concerns.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to recommend approval or denial of the proposed zone change. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area;
    2.   Consistency with the goals and policies of the General Plan;
    3.   Consistency and compatibility of the proposed zone with the General Plan land uses of nearby and adjoining
         properties;
    4.   The suitability of the properties for the uses requested and their suitability for the existing uses identified by
         the General Plan;
    5.   Whether a change in the uses allowed for the affected properties will unduly affect the uses, or proposed uses
         for nearby and adjoining properties;
    6.   The overall community benefit of the proposed amendment.




Gurney Zone Change
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          October 22, 2025

                                                 Gurney Property Zone Change
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Symphony Homes- requests review of the Gurney Property Zone Change on 8.62 acres located at approximately 1200 West
800 North, changing the zoning from TH-5 to R-1-22.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Russell Wilson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/13/25
Time Start: 1:50
Time End: 2:13

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary S.– Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey– Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering: No comments.
Luke – Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
1. Water dedication will be required as a condition prior to recording the zone change ordinance. The required dedication
    for the R-1-22 Zone is .79 acre feet per acre of culinary water and 2.9 acre feet per acre of irrigation water.


THIS ITEM WILL GO TO PLANNING COMMISSION ON NOVEMBER 13, 2025.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
October 14, 2025

Lehi City Planning & Zoning
C/O Mr. Jacob Curtis
153 North 100 East
Lehi, Utah 84043

RE: Request for Zoning Map Amendment for approximately 8.62 Acres Located at Approximately 1200
West 800 North (Utah County Parcel No. 40-498-0006)

Dear Mr. Curtis:

Please see the enclosed application to amend Lehi City’s zoning map from TH-5 to R-1-22 for
approximately 8.62 acres located at 1200 West 800 North, Lehi. The following information may also be
helpful to the city in reviewing our application:

Reason and justification for the proposed amendment
The subject property is surrounded by R-1-22 zoning on all sides.

Consistency of the proposed amendment with the goals and policies of the General Plan
The proposed amendment is consistent with the General Plan which designates this area as “Very Low
Density Residential Agriculture.”

Compatibility of the proposed land use with the existing land uses of nearby and adjoining properties
The proposed amendment would change the zoning of the subject property from TH-5 to R-1-22 which
is the same zoning classification as all adjacent properties.

The effect of the proposed amendment on the character of the surrounding area
The proposed amendment would allow for similar lot sizes and similar homes, and other characteristics
as currently exist in adjacent neighborhoods.

The gain to the public health, safety, welfare, and overall community benefit
The proposed amendment would provide greater connectivity for Lehi City and provide more housing
near existing desirable neighborhoods.

We appreciate your consideration of our application and look forward to continuing to work with you to
create a beautiful community that Lehi City and its residents can be proud of for many generations to
come. Feel free to reach out to me at (801) 691-4843 or rwilson@symphonydev.com with any questions
or concerns.

Sincerely,


Russell Wilson
Vice President, Symphony Development
