           THANKSGIVING STATION DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                   PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                                    Applicant           Stack Development and Gardner Company
                                 Meeting Date           December 4, 2025
                    Requested Action/Purpose            Review of a proposed Development Agreement
                                Decision Type           Legislative
                                     Location           Approximately Executive Parkway and Ashton Boulevard
                                      Acreage           Approximately 26 acres
                              Existing Zoning           Resort Community (RC)
   Existing General Plan Land Use Designation           Transit Oriented Development (TOD)
                            Existing Land Use           Thanksgiving Station, Cornbelly’s
               Adjacent Zoning and Land Use              North RC               Undeveloped
                                                         South RC               Office
                                                           East RC              Office
                                                          West RC               Residential, golf course
                                               REQUIRED ACTION
                            Planning Commission         Review and recommendation
                                    City Council        Final approval


 APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 29.020. Criteria for Entering into a Development Agreement.
The city may enter into a development agreement only if the development agreement:

    A. Has been duly adopted by the City Council in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

    B. The proposed development to which the development agreement pertains is in conformity with the gen-
       eral plan, zoning district regulations, and other applicable requirements of the City.

    C. The proposed development subject to the agreement contains outstanding features that advance the pol-
       icies, goals and objectives of Lehi City, or the property owner agrees to provide capital improvements
       that exceed the development's proportionate share of the costs of the facilities needed to service the
       development, which hereby advance the provision of facilities to serve Lehi City.


 APPLICABLE STATE CODE REGULATIONS

10-9a-532
(2) (a) A development agreement may not:
        (i) limit a municipality's authority in the future to:
             (A) enact a land use regulation; or
            (B) take any action allowed under Section 10-8-84;
        (ii) require a municipality to change the zoning designation of an area of land within the municipality in
             the future; or
        (iii) allow a use or development of land that applicable land use regulations governing the area subject to
             the development agreement would otherwise prohibit, unless the legislative body approves the devel-
             opment agreement in accordance with the same procedures for enacting a land use regulation under
             Section 10-9a-502, including a review and recommendation from the planning commission and a pub-
             lic hearing

  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review and recommendation of the Thanksgiving Station Development Agreement. The pur-
pose of this development agreement is to secure HTRZ funding for the development of the Thanksgiving Station
according to the Thanksgiving Point Area Plan. This is a state requirement to get HTRZ funding.

The Thanksgiving Point Area Plan is still the governing document for the project. This development agreement adds
additional triggers and requirements within the already approved area plan. The development agreement clarifies ex-
pectations, provides predictability for both parties, and outlines how the HTRZ will be administered.

This is a legislative item. Recent State Legislation requires that these agreements have a public hearing with the Plan-
ning Commission prior to their approval by the City Council.

The DRC reviewed the proposed Development Agreement and had five comments, including the following:

    1.   Develop an intermediate trigger-point for the retail space square footage requirements compared to the
         1,360 unit counts
    2.   Specify who at the City will receive the written notice of changes to applicable rules in 5.3 (c).

Please consider all DRC comments in the motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Development Agreements are legislative items at the full discretion of the City Council. The Planning Commission
reviews the Development Agreement and can recommend any changes to the City Council.

The public can also speak to this item and express any concerns or support for the development agreement. The public
can also suggest changes to the language of the agreement.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may provide a positive or negative recommendation on the proposed Beckstrom De-
velopment Agreement. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed Development Code amendment is/is not in conformance with the purposes, intent, and provi-
         sions of the General Plan and its various elements.
    2.   Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         November 19, 2025

                                        Thanksgiving Station Development Agreement
                                                  DRC Redline Comments

Stack – Requests review of the Thanksgiving Station Development Agreement, located on approximately 26 acres in the
Thanksgiving Point area.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Dave Denison, Ryan Thomas
Date of Plans Reviewed: 11/11/25
Time Start: 1:40 PM
Time End: 2:25 PM


DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power:
1. This language is required in the agreement: At time of development a power system study is required to determine
    capacity, and the improvements that will be required
Brad – Fiber: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering:
2. Develop an intermediate trigger-point for the retail space square footage requirements compared to the 1,360 unit
    counts.
Luke – Traffic: No comments.
Marlin – Economic Development:
3. 6.2 – Language was changed as follows but has been omitted in the version you submitted (see after paragraph). We
    also need to address the grey area where I call it the teeth of the agreement for 6.2. I am open to language suggestions
    but I will not recommend approval unless we have something with teeth. The concern is that the development
    community shows they are in favor of Clubhouse Drive in the public but in private show neutral or against the project
    and it sways decisions. We have already gone done down this path. We need some teeth that IF the development
    community makes despairing remarks there is recourse action on Clubhouse Drive. Marlin and development team will
    work on clarification of language.
Kim – Planning:
4. Specify who at the City will receive the written notice of changes to applicable rules in 5.3 (c).
5. The term "zoning ordinance" isn't used in the document, so the definition in 1.20 can be removed.

General Comments:

Section 29.010
Lehi City may, in the exercise of the legislative powers and at the full discretion of the City Council, enter into a
development agreement. Under no circumstances is this required. A development agreement adopted by the City Council
may identify terms and conditions which may modify the provisions of this Code and other requirements of the City,
provided that the City Council determines the best interests of the City and its residents are advanced by the adoption of
such an agreement

Planning – This is more of an internal City question, but who will be tracking this? This affects multiple different
departments. As our current process stands right now, this will be very difficult for us to keep track of and enforce in the
future.
Question for Ryan – can we clarify that this is an addendum to the area plan?


Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         November 19, 2025




THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR THE DECEMBER 4TH REGULAR MEETING.

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL, TAIILGATE, NONE)




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
Thanksgiving Station
Development Agreement Narrative
November 24, 2025


Lehi Planning Commission / City Council:



As many of you will remember, this project has been a long time in the making. Initial conversations
with the city started back in October 2018. Since that time, this project has been iterated and refined
through:

       6 City Council / Planning Commission Work Sessions
       5 Official Planning Commission Hearings
       4 Official City Council Hearings
       42 In-Person Development Review Committee Meetings
       62 Weekly Zoom Calls with Lehi City Staff
       22 Different 3rd Party Consultants
       2,581 days of consistent effort to make this vision a reality

The culmination of this collaboration with Lehi City was the Thanksgiving Point Area Plan Amendment,
which was approved by the City Council on August 8, 2023. The Thanksgiving Point Area Plan is the
primary governing document for this project. Within the Area Plan, you will find traffic triggers, project
milestones, anticipated impact fee allocations for various projects throughout the city, utility
information, design standards, permitted land uses, and numerous other standards and guidelines for
this project. This background will be helpful to remember as you read this Development Agreement.

Please keep in mind, the milestones and triggers within the Development Agreement are in addition to
the triggers and requirements within the already approved Area Plan. We were asked by Lehi City to
enter into this Development Agreement to clarify expectations, provide predictability for both parties,
and outline how the HTRZ will be administered.

Beginning in April 2024, we have collaborated on nearly twenty drafts of the agreement. Lehi City has
been represented by the Mayor, City Manager, Economic Development, Director of Finance, City
Attorney, Planning, Engineering, and top-tier Outside Counsel. This document has been thoroughly
vetted.

Please consider this context as you read the revised Development Agreement. We believe this
agreement delivers protections, assurances, and confidence to Lehi City, while confirming our already-
vested rights to develop the project as approved by City Council.



Thank you,
Thanksgiving Station Development Partners
                               DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

        THIS DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (this “Agreement”) is made and entered into as
of ____________ __, 2025 (the “Effective Date”) by and between LEHI CITY, a municipal
corporation of the State of Utah (the “City”) and THANKSGIVING STATION DEVELOPMENT
PARTNERS, LLC, a Utah limited liability company (together with its successors and assigns, the
“Developer”). The City and the Developer are sometimes referred to herein collectively as the
“Parties” and each individually as a “Party.”

                                            RECITALS

        A.      The Developer has the right to acquire and/or develop certain real property
consisting of approximately 26 acres of land located in Lehi City, Utah County, Utah, as more
particularly described on Exhibit A attached hereto (the “Property”).

        B.       The Developer intends to develop the Property as a multi-year project that may
include multiple phases consisting of one or more office, commercial (multi-family) residential or
retail buildings and related ancillary improvements (each a “Phase” and collectively the “Phases”)
extending over a period of years with the uses of one or more commercial (multi-family)
residential, retail, office and other commercial uses as permitted by the Area Plan (defined below)
each which qualify as a transit oriented development (collectively, the “Project”).

        C.     The City finds developments such as the Project to be in the public interest of its
citizens and thus desires to encourage and support the Project.

        D.       The Developer anticipates that the Project will require a substantial, long-term
commitment of capital and resources of the Developer, as well as the careful integration of public
capital facilities, construction schedules and the phasing of the development of the Project, in order
for the Project to be successful, both for the Developer and the City.

       E.    The Parties desire to incorporate their understandings with respect to the
development of the Project on the terms set forth herein.

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals and mutual covenants and
agreements contained herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency
of which are hereby acknowledged, the City and the Developer hereby agree as follows:

                                           ARTICLE I
                                          DEFINITIONS

         1.1     “Applicable Rules” means all of the rules, regulations, ordinances and official
policies of the City in force and effect as of the Effective Date, including the Code and the
restrictions set forth in the Project Approvals, except as may be modified pursuant to Section 5.2.



                                                  1
      1.2    “Area Plan” means the Thanksgiving Point Area Plan as adopted by the City
Council on August 8, 2023. A copy of the Area Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit B.

       1.3     “City Council” means the City Council and the legislative body of the City.

       1.4     “City Representatives” means the City’s employees, contractors, subcontractors
and agents.

       1.5    “Code” means the Lehi City Municipal Code and Lehi City Development Code (or
any subsequent amendments or recodification of such ordinance).

       1.6     “Developer Representatives” means the Developer’s employees, contractors,
subcontractors and agents.

        1.7    “Force Majeure Event” means a matter beyond the reasonable control of the Party
to perform (excluding unfavorable economic conditions), including: acts of God, including
earthquakes, fire, floods, tornados, hurricanes and extreme weather conditions; acts of terrorism;
financial and/or banking crises that limit normal extensions of credit; civil disturbances; discovery
of hazardous materials; a pandemic; and acts of the United States of America or the State of Utah.

       1.8    “General Plan” means the Lehi City General Plan and Land Use Map, adopted
January 25, 2022, as amended.

       1.9     “HTRZ” is defined in Section 6.3.

       1.10 “Mortgage” means a mortgage, deed of trust, sale and leaseback or other form of
secured financing.

        1.11 “Mortgagee” means the holder of a Mortgage, a purchaser at a foreclosure sale with
respect to a Mortgage and/or recipient of a deed in lieu of a foreclosure of a Mortgage.

       1.12    “Official Records” means the Official Records of Utah County, Utah.

      1.13 “Participation Agreement” means that certain HTRZ Participation Agreement
between the RDA and the Developer, dated on or around the date hereof, as the same may be
amended, restated supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.

        1.14 “PID” means a one or more public infrastructure districts created pursuant to Utah
Code Section 17D-4-101, et. seq., or any successor or similar statute enacted pursuant to the laws
of the State of Utah.

       1.15 “Project Approvals” means the permits, approvals, reviews and other actions
necessary to develop a Phase as governed in the Area Plan.

        1.16 “Project Milestones” means each of the following requirements within the HTRZ:
(a) either (i) development of an initial 16,000 square feet of retail space (e.g., space which is not
office or residential) developed within the HTRZ (exclusive of the climbing gym), or (ii) the
                                                 2
development of a climbing gym within the HTRZ, in either such case, on or prior to the date that
the first 1,360 residential units within the Project receive a certificate of occupancy (it being agreed
that prior to the satisfaction of either clause (i) or clause (ii), certificates of occupancy will be
issued for buildings in which residential units are located so long as the aggregate number of
residential units in the Project do not exceed 1,360); and (ii) development of an aggregate of 33,000
square feet of retail space (e.g., space which is not office or residential) within the Project
(exclusive of the climbing gym in the HTRZ) prior to receipt of the certificate of occupancy for
the final Phase of the Project.

          1.17   “RDA” means the Lehi City Redevelopment Agency.

      1.18 “RDA Interlocal Agreement” means an interlocal agreement between the City and
the RDA which is entered into in accordance with the terms of Section 6.3 hereof.

         1.19 “Taxes” means any and all taxes, special taxes, assessments, levies, impositions,
duties, deductions, withholding, charges and fees, including those imposed with respect to any
assessment districts, infrastructure financing, community facilities districts, community taxing
districts, maintenance districts or other similar districts. Taxes do not include Impact Fees (as
defined below).

          1.20   “Zoning Ordinance” means the Lehi City Development Code in effect as of the date
hereof.

                                      ARTICLE II
                             CITY PROCEDURES AND ACTIONS

        The City Council, after conducting a duly-noticed public meeting, adopted Resolution
No. [______________] on [_______________], effective immediately upon adoption, which
resolution (i) confirmed the City Council’s approval of this Agreement and the City Council’s
finding that the provisions of this Agreement are consistent with the General Plan and the
Applicable Rules and (ii) authorized the execution of this Agreement. The City represents and
warrants to the Developer that (a) the City has the full power and authority to enter into this
Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder, (b) this Agreement is a valid and binding
obligation, enforceable against the City in accordance with the terms hereof and (c) the execution
and delivery of this Agreement has been validly authorized by all necessary governmental or
other action and does not conflict with any other agreements entered into by the City.

                                          ARTICLE III
                                        CONSIDERATION

       The City believes that the Project will provide economic benefits to the City by providing
a unique and sustainable transit-oriented development (“TOD”) which create sustainable
neighborhoods providing for long term investment and economic growth in the City. The City
understands that the Developer would not develop the Project in the City without such benefits
and assurances, which the Developer is reasonably and in good faith relying on to independently

                                                   3
evaluate the economic feasibility and commercial reasonability of developing and operating the
Project in the City. The Developer similarly understands that the City would not be entering into
this Agreement without relying on the Developer representation, covenants, Project Milestones,
and expectations described herein, which the City is reasonably and in good faith relying on to
independently evaluate the feasibility and reasonability of assisting and entitling the development
of the Project in the City.

                                           ARTICLE IV
                                             TAXES

        4.1     Right to Oppose. The Developer shall have the right, to the extent permitted by
law, to protest, oppose and vote against any and all Taxes, but shall give reasonable notice to the
City prior to engaging in any formal actions (submitting a formal objection in writing) with a
taxing entity (for example, the County).

        4.2     New Taxes. Except for levies assessed pursuant to a PID established with respect
to the Project, the City shall not during the Term recommend or support any new Taxes that are
applicable solely and exclusively to the Project, the Property or with the express or inferred intent
to specifically or inequitably target the Project or the Property. The City agrees to take such action
as is necessary to create and establish a PID in conjunction with the Project with the physical
boundaries of the PID consisting of the entire Property and shall do so prior to the issuance of any
Project Bonds as described in 6.3.

                                          ARTICLE V
                                        ENTITLEMENTS

        5.1    Entitlement to Develop. The City represents to the Developer that as of the
Effective Date the Area Plan applies to the Property pursuant to the Applicable Rules.

       5.2     Vested Rights; Change in Applicable Rules.

               (a)     The Developer has the vested right to develop and operate the Project,
including the right to maintain, remodel, renovate, rehabilitate, rebuild, replenish or replace the
Project or any portion thereof throughout the Term for any reason, including in the event of
damage, destruction or obsolescence of the Project or any portion thereof, subject only to the
Applicable Rules. Developer’s right to commence construction on a new Phase, including
obtaining all Project Approvals, and Developer’s receipt of a certificate of occupancy for a Phase
under construction, will be conditioned on Developer having met the applicable Project Milestones
which are then required to have been met by Developer as of the issuance of such Project
Approvals or certificate of occupancy, as applicable.

              (b)     Nothing in this Agreement shall limit the future exercise of the police power
by the City in enacting zoning, subdivision, development, transportation, environmental, open
space and related land use plans, policies, ordinances and regulations after the Effective Date.
Notwithstanding the retained power of the City to enact such legislation under its police power,

                                                  4
such legislation shall not modify the Developer’s vested right as set forth herein unless facts and
circumstances are present which meet the exceptions to the vested rights doctrine as set forth in
Western Land Equities, Inc. v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388 (Utah, 1988), its progeny or any other
exception to the doctrine of vested rights recognized under state or federal law, including laws,
rules or regulations that the City’s land use authority finds, on the record, are necessary to avoid
jeopardizing a compelling, countervailing public interest pursuant to Utah Code Ann., §10-9a-
509(1)(a)(ii)(A) (2017).

                (c)     In addition to subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 5.2 above, no addition
to, or modification of, the Applicable Rules, including any zoning, land use or building regulation,
adopted or effective after the Effective Date, shall be applied to the Project or the Property, except
changes to the Applicable Rules that are generally applicable on a City-wide basis and are updates
or amendments to building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, drainage or similar construction or
safety related codes, such as the International Building Code, the APWA Specifications, AAHSTO
Standards, the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices or similar standards that are generated
by a nationally or statewide recognized construction/safety organization or by the state or federal
governments. The foregoing will not prevent the City from adopting changes to the General Plan
that are applicable on a City-wide basis, however, such changes to the General Plan will not alter
or modify Developer’s vested rights to develop the Project or Property in accordance with this
Agreement. The Developer may elect in its sole discretion, and upon written notice to the City, to
have any other changes to the Applicable Rules apply to the Project or the Property or any portion
thereof, in which case such addition or modification shall be deemed incorporated into the
Applicable Rules with respect to the Project or the Property or such portion thereof, as applicable.
The City represents to the Developer that currently, no Applicable Rule conflicts with the
provisions of this Agreement. If applicable state or federal laws or regulations prevent or preclude
compliance with one or more provisions of this Agreement, such provisions of this Agreement
shall be modified or suspended as necessary to comply with such state or federal laws or
regulations. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the City shall not add or modify any
Applicable Rule, including any zoning, land use or building regulation, with the express or inferred
intent to specifically or inequitably target the Project or the Property or in a manner that adversely
affects the Project or the Property

        5.3     Project Approvals. The City represents to the Developer that the Project Approvals
are the only permits, approvals, reviews and actions of the City (including any agencies,
departments or other approving bodies thereof) that are required to commence and complete the
development of the Project under the Applicable Rules. Nothing herein shall prohibit the
Developer from seeking other or further permits, approvals, reviews or other actions in connection
with the Project as may be deemed necessary or desirable by the Developer in its sole discretion.
Nothing herein shall prohibit or require the City from providing Project Approvals for a Phase if
the applicable Project Milestones are required to have been met prior to the issuance of such Project
Approvals for such Phase, but have not been met.

       5.4     Moratoria or Interim Control Ordinances. No ordinance, resolution, policy or other
measure enacted after the Effective Date that relates directly or indirectly to the Project or to fees
or charges associated with or the timing, sequencing or phasing of the development or construction

                                                  5
of the Project shall apply to the Property or this Agreement, unless it is (i) reasonably found by the
City to be necessary to protect the general welfare or public health and safety of the residents of
the City, (ii) generally applicable on a City-wide basis (except to the extent necessary in the event
of a natural disaster), or (iii) with respect to fees or charges, such fees or charges are legally
adopted, apply on a City-wide basis and are intended to cover costs incurred by the City, including,
without limitation, impact fees.

       5.5    Timeframes for Processing and Review. The City shall process all Project
Approvals (including staff review and processing and actions by any boards and commissions) and
any other approvals or actions requested by the Developer in connection with the Project in a
commercially reasonable time frame.

       5.6    Other Approvals. The City shall assist and cooperate in good faith with the
Developer in connection with obtaining any (i) approvals and permits from other governmental or
quasi-governmental agencies having jurisdiction over the Property or the Project and (ii) similar
documents and instruments from third parties, as may be necessary or desirable in connection with
the development or operation of the Project.

        5.7     Timing and Rate of Development. The Project may include multiple phases
extending over a period of years. The City acknowledges that as of the Effective Date, the
Developer cannot predict if, when or at what rate the development of the Project will occur, which
will depend upon numerous factors, including factors outside of the control of the Developer, such
as market orientation and demand, competition, availability of qualified laborers and weather
conditions. Subject to the Project Approvals, and provided Developer has developed the Phases
in compliance with the Project Milestones, the Developer may develop the Project in such order
and at such rate and times as the Developer deems appropriate in its sole and absolute discretion,
which the City agrees is consistent with the intent, purpose and understanding of the Parties.
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require the Developer to proceed with developing
the Project or any portion thereof or any Phase, provided, it shall be a condition to Developer
commencing a Phase that Developer is developing such Phase in compliance with the Project
Milestones. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Developer shall be required to commence
construction on the first Phase of the Project (which includes the initial multifamily development)
prior to the date which is ten (10) years after the Effective Date. If Developer fails to commence
construction of such Phase within such timeframe, such failure shall be deemed a default by
Developer under Section 11.1 of this Agreement.

       5.8      Additional Property. This Agreement is hereby adopted and approved by the City
to apply to any real property (a) within the municipal limits of the City, (b) that is subject to the
Area Plan, (c) that is included within the HTRZ (as defined in Section 6.3 below), and (d) that the
Developer or an affiliate of the Developer may from time to time acquire following the Effective
Date (whether in one or more parcels, “Additional Property”). The Additional Property which
may be acquired by Developer and is subject to the provisions of this Agreement is depicted on
Exhibit “C” attached hereto and made a part hereof. If the Developer or an affiliate of the
Developer acquires Additional Property, then automatically upon notice thereof to the City by
Developer, this Agreement shall apply with respect to, and the definition of “Property” hereunder

                                                  6
shall include such Additional Property regardless of whether the legal description of such
Additional Property is actually attached hereto.

                                        ARTICLE VI
                                     CITY OBLIGATIONS
         6.1     Water and Sewer Improvements. The City acknowledges that water and sewer
infrastructure capable of meeting the needs of the Project must exist and remain operational to
allow for the successful development and operation of the Project, without which the Developer
would be unable to locate the Project on the Property. Subject to the Developer and paying all
fees to the City as required by the Applicable Rules in connection with the development of a Phase,
including, without limitation, impact fees, to the extent not already in existence, following the
submission by Developer of an application for Project Approvals for a particular Phase, the City
shall commence and thereafter use diligent efforts to complete the design and construction of
certain improvements to the City’s existing culinary water, pressure irrigation and sewer system
infrastructure as more particularly described in the Area Plan in a manner which permits the
construction and operation of such Phase. In doing so, Developer acknowledges that the City must
adhere to all of the requirements, procedures, and timelines as prescribed in the recorded Area Plan
and will not be allowed to deviate from such requirements, procedures or timelines as outlined.
The City’s obligations will not include constructing water and sewer improvements within the
boundary of the Project to serve the Project, which shall be the responsibility of Developer.

       6.2     Roadway Improvements.

                (a)    The City acknowledges that public roadways providing direct access to the
Project must exist and remain adequately maintained to allow for the successful development and
operation of the Project, without which the Developer would be unable to locate the Project on the
Property. Following the submission of an application for Project Approvals for a particular Phase,
the City shall commence and thereafter use diligent efforts to complete the design and construction
of the roadways located outside of the Project (the “Roadway Expansion”) described in the
Improvement and Trigger Summary set forth in the Area Plan (the “Roadway Improvement
Summary”) within the time periods which are required in order for such Phase to be accessed and
used. Additionally, the City will use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Utah
Department of Transportation to either: 1) construct the roadways described in the Roadway
Improvement Summary, and/or 2) provide funds sufficient to construct the same, each or all within
the time periods set forth in the Area Plan. In connection with the foregoing, if the City elects to
construct Clubhouse Drive, the Developer shall use commercially reasonable efforts, without
incurring out of pocket expense, to (i) support the City in causing the Utah Department of
Transportation to either: (A) construct the roadway commonly known as Clubhouse Drive or (B)
fund construction of the same, (ii) assist the City in obtaining public funding sources, (iii)
encourage Thanksgiving Point to show full support for the construction of Club House Drive
through Thanksgiving Point Golf Course, (iv) attend public meetings to speak in favor of
Clubhouse Drive, and (v) participate in informational campaigns demonstrating support of the
construction or funding of Clubhouse Drive, provided, however, the failure of the City to obtain
such funds, and the failure of Clubhouse Drive to be constructed, will not prevent Developer from
obtaining any Project Approvals, commencing a Phase or obtaining a certificate of occupancy for

                                                 7
a Phase. Promptly following the Effective Date, the City shall use commercially reasonable efforts
to cause to be delivered and recorded in the Official Records a plat, deed, easement or other
instrument necessary to grant to the City ownership of or easements or rights of way that permit
the City to construct the Roadway Expansion. Promptly following the Developer’s request
therefor, if the real property on which the Roadway Expansion is to be constructed is not subject
to a public dedication and is owned by the City or subject to an easement or similar right in favor
of the City, the City shall grant to the Developer an easement, license or other similar rights, in
form and substance acceptable to the Developer in its reasonable discretion, on, under and within
any real property to allow the Developer and the Developer Representatives to use such roadways.

               (b)      The City acknowledges that the Developer will need to rely solely on the
existing roadways and the Roadway Expansion for access to the Property, including during
construction of the Project, and without such access, the Developer would be unable to locate the
Project on the Property. The City shall not abandon, vacate or close any existing City roadways
necessary to provide access to the Property, unless (i) such closure shall be necessary for repair,
upgrade or any other mutually agreed upon requirement, and (ii) the City provides reasonable
alternative access to the Project during such period of closure. In addition, the City shall make
reasonable efforts to ensure that routine maintenance and construction on roadways that serve as
the only public access to the Property are done in a manner as to not unreasonably restrict or delay
access to the Property.

       6.3     Interlocal Agreement.

              (a)      The City acknowledges and agrees that the Property is included within a
housing and transit reinvestment zone (“HTRZ”) pursuant to the approval given by the Housing
and Transit Reinvestment Zone Committee on November 13, 2023 (the “HTRZ Approval”) in
accordance with Utah Code 63N-3-603 in effect as of the date of the HTRZ Approval (the “HTRZ
Act”). The HTRZ is depicted on Exhibit D attached hereto and made a part hereof.

                 (b)    On or around the date hereof, the City and the RDA will enter into an
interlocal agreement (the “RDA Interlocal Agreement”) which complies with the HTRZ Act and
all other applicable laws pursuant to which eighty percent (80%) of the Tax Increment generated
through personal and real property (as defined in the HTRZ Act) generated by the Project will be
paid to the RDA (to be paid to the Developer in accordance with the Participation Agreement,
except as pledged to Project Bonds (defined herein)). In connection with any bonds issued under
the Participation Agreement (including, without limitation, any bonds issued by a PID which has
received an assignment of the rights to receive Tax Increment in accordance with the Participation
Agreement with respect to one or more Phases)(individually and collectively, as the context may
require, the “Project Bonds”), the City will enter into an agreement with the PID or RDA pursuant
to which the City will agree to pledge subordinated sales and use tax increment (subordinated only
to the City’s existing sales tax pledges and subsequent pledges of sales and use taxes for bonds
issued for purposes of paying for City capital improvement projects at the City’s discretion) as
collateral for the Project Bonds. The City’s obligation to pledge sales and use tax as collateral for
Project Bonds from time to time will be conditioned on (i) Developer providing evidence to the
City that either (A) Developer has previously paid for all improvements within a Phase for which

                                                 8
such Project Bonds are being issued, or (B) Developer has obtained financing, or will
simultaneously with the issuance of the Project Bonds be obtaining financing, which, together with
the proceeds of the Project Bonds and capital being contributed by Developer, are sufficient to pay
the constructions costs of one or more Phases for which such Project Bonds are being issued, (ii)
the documents evidencing such Project Bonds establishing a debt service reserve in the amount of
ten percent (10%) of the proceeds of the Project Bonds (the “Debt Service Reserve”), which Debt
Service Reserve will be applied to payments of debt service due under the Project Bonds prior to
the application of sales and use tax, and (iii) the payment schedule of combined principal and
interest payments on any Project Bonds where the City’s sales and use tax is pledged as collateral
shall remain substantially level over the life of such Project Bonds.

                (c)     Prior to any issuance of any Project Bonds, the Developer agrees that City
shall create the PID authorized to charge a property tax against the applicable Phase for which
such Project Bonds are being issued (limited to no more than fifteen (15) mills annually). The PID
shall contractually agree to levy annual property taxes in an amount at least equal to (i) refill any
draw on the Debt Service Reserve and (ii) repay the City for any sales and use taxes used to pay
debt service on the Project Bonds (the “City Funds”). In the event that an annual levy of fifteen
(15) mills is insufficient to fund (i) and (ii) above, such levy shall continue to be levied until (i)
and (ii) are funded, including an amount accruing at an annual interest rate equal to that of the
Project Bonds until funded, beginning January 1 of the year immediately following the use of any
City Funds. So long as the payment schedule of combined principal and interest payments remains
substantially level over the life of any Project Bonds, upon confirmation by the City that the Tax
Increment is sufficient to cover debt service on the Project Bonds by 125% for two consecutive
years, and all City Funds which have been used to pay debt service, if any, plus accrued interest
are paid back, (i) the PID property tax shall no longer be required to be assessed and any pledge
thereof for the Project Bonds shall be released, (ii) the City’s subordinate sales and use tax
guaranty’s shall be released, and (iii) the Debt Service Reserve shall be released to the Developer.

                (d)    In connection with the issuance of Project Bonds, any debt service payments
on the Project Bonds that are not currently paid from the amounts made available under the
Participation Agreement, will be made (i) first, to the extent contemplated by the bond documents
related to the Project Bonds, from reserves created from the proceeds of the Project Bonds, and
(ii) second, from the Debt Service Reserve, (iii) third, from any property tax levy revenues from
the PID as described above, if available; and (iv) finally, from subordinated sales and use tax
pledged by the City or RDA (but subject to reimbursement as provided in subsection (c) above).

                (e)     The RDA Interlocal Agreement will not contain additional restrictions,
conditions or requirements on the payment of Tax Increment to the Developer beyond those set
forth in the HTRZ Approval, provided, however, that so long as the City or the RDA shall apply
the Tax Increment received from time to time by the City or RDA pursuant to the terms of the
RDA Interlocal Agreement there shall be no additional liability to the City or the RDA for such
failures (for example, any late payments, calculation errors, shortages, etc., by the County or any
other party in administering or sending the Tax Increment). In such event, the City and the RDA
shall use good faith efforts in attempting to correct any apparent errors with the Developer.


                                                  9
                                        ARTICLE VII
                                      SALES AND USE TAX

        Developer recognizes and agrees that, subject to the provisions of Section 6.3(b) above,
the Project will create additional costs to the City with regards to providing additional public
services, including, police, fire, public works, administration and other departments whose time
will be utilized by the development. In addition, and subject to the provisions of Section 6.3(b),
the City will utilize the sales and use tax generated by the Project to offset such costs. Therefore,
the Developer acknowledges the reliance by the City on the Project Milestones to accomplish this
objective.

                                         ARTICLE VIII
                                         MORTGAGES

       8.1     Mortgages. This Agreement shall not prevent or limit the Developer from
encumbering the Property or any estate or interest therein, portion thereof, or any improvement
thereon, in any manner whatsoever by one or more Mortgages with respect to the construction,
development, use or operation of the Project or any portion thereof. The City acknowledges that
Mortgagees may require certain interpretations and modifications of this Agreement. Upon the
Developer’s request from time to time, the City shall meet with the Developer and such
Mortgagees to negotiate in good faith any such requests for interpretation or modification. The
City shall not unreasonably withhold its consent to any such requested interpretation or
modification that is consistent with the intent and purposes of this Agreement.

        8.2      Assignment to Mortgagee; Mortgagee Not Obligated. The Developer shall have
the right to assign its rights to develop a Phase to a Mortgagee as collateral for such Phase without
the consent of the City. Notwithstanding the assignment of such rights to a Mortgage, a Mortgagee
shall not have any obligation or duty to perform pursuant to the terms set forth in this Agreement
unless and until such Mortgagee takes title to the Property and delivers notice to the City expressly
assuming the obligations hereunder, and the City shall have no obligation to recognize the rights
of the Mortgagee to develop a Phase hereunder, unless and until the Mortgagee has delivered notice
to the City of Mortgagee’s assumption of the obligations to develop such Phase pursuant to this
Agreement including the obligations related to Project Milestones.

       8.3      Mortgagee Notice and Cure Rights. If requested in writing by a Mortgagee, the
City shall deliver to such Mortgagee any notice of default delivered to the Developer hereunder.
A Mortgagee shall have the right, but not the obligation, to cure such default within thirty (30)
days after such Mortgagee receives such notice, or such longer periods as may be reasonably
necessary for the Mortgagee to exercise its remedies with respect to the Phase(s) subject to the
Mortgage held by such Mortgagee so long as such Mortgage promptly commences the cure of
such default following Mortgage’s obtaining possession of the applicable Phases and diligently
prosecutes the same to completion, during which period the City shall not exercise any remedies
hereunder with respect to the Phase encumbered by such Mortgage.



                                                 10
       8.4     Disaffirmation. If this Agreement is terminated with respect to a portion of the
Property by reason of any default by the Developer or as a result of a bankruptcy proceeding of
the Developer, or if this Agreement is disaffirmed by a receiver, liquidator or trustee for the
Developer or its property, then the City, if requested by a Mortgagee, shall negotiate in good faith,
with the most senior requesting Mortgagee, a new development agreement for the Project as to
such portion of the Property which is encumbered by the Mortgage held by such Mortgagee.

                                           ARTICLE IX
                                             TERM

       The term of this Agreement (the “Term”) shall commence on the Effective Date and
continue for a period of fifty (50) years.

                                       ARTICLE X
                               THIRD PARTY TRANSACTIONS

         10.1 Estoppel Certificate. At any time, and from time to time, either Party may deliver
written notice to the other Party requesting that such other Party certify in writing, to the
knowledge of the certifying Party: (i) that this Agreement is in full force and effect and a binding
obligation of the Parties; (ii) that this Agreement has not been amended or modified, or if amended
or modified, a description of each such amendment or modification; (iii) that the requesting Party
is not then in breach of this Agreement, or if in breach, a description of each such breach; and (iv)
any other factual matters reasonably requested (an “Estoppel Certificate”). The City Administrator,
or such other person(s) authorized by the City Council may execute, on behalf of the City, any
Estoppel Certificate requested by the Developer that is consistent with this Section 8.1. The City
acknowledges that an Estoppel Certificate may be relied upon by transferees or successors in
interest to the Developer and by Mortgagees holding an interest in the Property.

        10.2 No Third-Party Beneficiaries. The only parties to this Agreement are the City and
the Developer. There are no third-party beneficiaries under this Agreement, and except for
assignees and successors-in-interests to either Party, this Agreement shall not be construed to
benefit or be enforceable by any other party whatsoever.

                                       ARTICLE XI
                                  DEFAULT AND REMEDIES

        11.1 Generally. In the event of a default of this Agreement, the non-defaulting Party
may provide written notice of the default to the defaulting Party and specify a period of not less
than fifteen (15) days during which the defaulting Party shall have the right to cure such default;
provided, however, that such cure period may be extended if (i) the default cannot reasonably be
cured within the cure period provided in such notice, (ii) the curing Party notifies the non-
defaulting Party of such fact by no later than the end of the cure period provided in the notice, (iii)
the curing Party has theretofore been diligent in pursuing the cure and (iv) the curing Party in such
extension notice covenants to (and thereafter actually does) diligently pursue the cure to
completion. Without limiting Section 6.3, if the defaulting Party fails to cure the default within

                                                  11
such cure period, the non-defaulting Party may either (a) terminate this Agreement or (b) enforce
this Agreement by the additional remedies set forth below.

        11.2 Developer’s Additional Remedies Upon Default by City. The Developer’s sole and
exclusive remedy under this Agreement for a default by the City shall be specific performance of
the rights granted in this Agreement and City's obligations under this Agreement.

     11.3 CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES. IN NO EVENT SHALL EITHER PARTY BE
LIABLE TO THE OTHER PARTY, ITS SUCCESSORS OR ASSIGNS, FOR ANY INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, PUNITIVE, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING
LOST PROFITS, COSTS OF DELAY, OR LIABILITIES TO THIRD PARTIES.

                                        ARTICLE XII
                                      MISCELLANEOUS

        12.1 Force Majeure. If due to the occurrence of a Force Majeure Event a Party is unable
to meet any obligation hereunder, then the deadline for performing such obligation shall be
automatically extended by one (1) day for each day of such Force Majeure Event; provided that
such Party shall diligently and in good faith act to the extent within its power to remedy the
circumstances of such Force Majeure Event affecting its performance or to complete performance
in as timely a manner as is reasonably possible. The occurrence of a Force Majeure Event shall
not cause any change to or extension of the Construction Schedule, or any portion thereof, or
extend the deadlines, milestones or other dates set forth therein.

       12.2 Recitals. The recitals of this Agreement are material terms hereof and shall be
binding upon the Parties.

        12.3 Notice. Whenever any notice is required or permitted under this Agreement, it shall
be in writing and shall be delivered personally, with acknowledgment of receipt being obtained by
the delivering Party, or by U.S. Certified Mail, return receipt requested, or by overnight delivery
service by a reliable company, such as Federal Express or United States Parcel Service. Until
further notification by written notice in the manner required by this Section 10.3, notices to the
Parties shall be delivered as follows:

                      City:           Lehi City
                                      Attn: City Manager
                                      153 North 100 East
                                      Lehi, Utah 84043

                      Developer:      c/o STACK Real Estate, LLC
                                      4101 North Thanksgiving Way, Suite 300
                                      Lehi, Utah 84048
                                      Attention: Andrew Bybee

                                      and

                                                12
                                         c/o KC Gardner Company, L.C.
                                         201 South Main Street, Suite 2000
                                         Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
                                         Attention: Christian Gardner

        If notice is given by U.S. Certified Mail, then the notice shall be deemed to have been given
on the second (2nd) Business Day after the date the envelope containing the notice is deposited in
the U.S. Mail, properly addressed to the Party to whom it is directed, postage prepaid. Notice
made by personal delivery or overnight delivery shall be deemed given when received.

         12.4 Assignment. The Developer may assign all or a portion of its rights and obligations
under this Agreement (a) without the City’s consent, to any Mortgagee or to any affiliate
controlling, controlled by or under common control with the Developer (and upon such assignment
the assigning entity shall be relieved of its covenants, commitments and obligations hereunder to
the extent of such assignment) or (b) to any subsequent owner of all or any portion of the Property
which is not taking assignment under clause (a) above, provided, any such assignment pursuant to
this clause (b) will be subject to the approval of the City, which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld, conditioned or delayed and shall be deemed granted, if not denied, upon the earlier to
occur of (i) thirty (30) days after the delivery of a request for such approval, or (ii) the City’s failure
to approve or disapprove of such request at the next City Council meeting (provided such request
was made in adequate time to allow such request to be properly noticed). The Parties acknowledge
that the City will consider the financial condition, reputation, and ability to perform under the
terms of this Agreement in determining whether to approve such assignment. If the Developer
sells the Property in its entirety and assigns its rights and obligations hereunder to its successor in
title to the Property, and provided the City consents to such assignment on the terms provided
herein, then the Developer shall be relieved of all of its covenants, commitments and obligations
hereunder. As used in Section 10.4, “control” (including its correlative meanings, “controlled by”
and “under common control with”) means possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct
or cause the direction of management or policies (whether through ownership of voting securities
or partnership or other ownership interests, by contract or otherwise).

        12.5 Run with the Land. This Agreement shall run with the Property and any portion
thereof as it may be subdivided or recombined. The Developer shall record in the Official Records
a memorandum of this Agreement in a form acceptable to the City and the Developer setting forth
the existence of this Agreement.

        12.6 Entire Agreement. This Agreement, including all Exhibits attached hereto,
contains the entire agreement between the Parties regarding the subject matter hereof, and all prior
or contemporaneous communications or agreements between the Parties or their respective
representatives with respect to the subject matter herein, whether oral or written, are merged into
this Agreement and extinguished. Except for the Developer’s right to modify the description of
the Property from time to time as set forth in Section 5.8, no agreement, representation or
inducement shall be effective to change, modify or terminate this Agreement, in whole or in part,
unless in writing and signed by the Party or Parties to be bound by such change, modification or

                                                    13
termination. If any term or provision of this Agreement or any application thereof shall be
unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement and any other application of any such term or
provision shall not be affected thereby, and each provision of this Agreement shall be valid and
enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law. The Parties acknowledge and agree that this
Agreement represents a negotiated agreement, having been drafted, negotiated and agreed upon
by the Parties and their respective legal counsel. Therefore, the Parties agree that the fact that one
Party or the other Party may have been primarily responsible for drafting or editing this Agreement
shall not, in any dispute over the terms of this Agreement, cause this Agreement to be interpreted
against such Party. It is the Parties’ collective intention to encourage, promote and aid the Project
so that the opportunities and positive community impacts of the Project are fully realized by the
City, its citizens and the Developer.

        12.7 Waivers. Neither Party may waive any condition or breach of any representation,
term, covenant or condition of this Agreement, except in a writing signed by the waiving Party
and specifically describing the condition or breach waived. The waiver by either Party of any
condition or breach of any representation, term, condition or covenant contained in this Agreement
shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any other representation, term, condition or covenant or of
any subsequent breach of the same or of any other representation, term, condition or covenant of
this Agreement.

       12.8 Governing Law. This Agreement is governed by and shall be construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Utah.

         12.9 Interpretation. The section headings of this Agreement are for convenience of
reference only and shall not be deemed to modify, explain, restrict, alter or affect the meaning or
interpretation of any provision hereof. Whenever the singular number is used, and when required
by the context, the same includes the plural, and the masculine gender includes the feminine and
neuter genders. All references herein to “Section” or “Exhibit” reference the applicable Section
of this Agreement or Exhibit attached hereto; and all Exhibits attached hereto are incorporated
herein and made a part hereof to the same extent as if they were included in the body of this
Agreement. The use in this Agreement of the words “including”, “such as” or words of similar
import when used with reference to any general term, statement or matter shall not be construed
to limit such term, statement or matter to the specific terms, statements or matters, unless language
of limitation, such as “and limited to” or words of similar import are used with reference thereto.
Rather, such terms shall be deemed to refer to all other items or matters that could reasonably fall
within the broadest possible scope of such term, statement or matter.

       12.10 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in as many counterparts as may be
deemed necessary and convenient, and by the Parties in separate counterparts, each of which, when
so executed, shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts shall constitute one and the
same instrument. A scanned or photocopy signature on this Agreement, any amendment hereto or
any notice delivered hereunder shall have the same legal effect as an original signature.

       12.11 Business Days. As used herein, the term “Business Day” shall mean a day that is
not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in the State of Utah. All other references to “days”

                                                 14
hereunder shall mean calendar days. If the date for the performance of any covenant or obligation
under this Agreement shall fall on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in the State of Utah, then
the date for performance thereof shall be extended to the next Business Day.

        12.12 Effect on Other Vested Rights. This Agreement does not abrogate any rights
established or preserved by any applicable law or by any other agreement or contract executed by
the City and the Developer in connection with the Project, or that have vested or may vest pursuant
to common law or otherwise.

        12.13 Confidential Information. The Developer may designate any trade secrets or
confidential business information included in any report or other writing delivered to the City
pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement by any method that complies with GRAMA
intended to clearly set apart the specific material that the Developer claims to be either its trade
secrets or confidential business information that, if released, would give an advantage to
competitors or result in unfair competitive injury to the Developer (such information, collectively,
“Confidential Business Information”). The City shall redact or delete any Confidential Business
Information from any records it makes available for inspection or of which it provides copies.
Within five (5) Business Days following the City’s receipt of any request to inspect or obtain
copies of public records relating to this Agreement or the Project, the City shall provide written
notice of the same to the Developer, which notice shall include a copy of such request. The City
shall not allow inspection or provide copies of any such records until the Developer shall have had
not less than five (5) Business Days (following and excluding the day on which the Developer
receives such notice) to determine whether to contest the right of any party to inspect or receive
copies of such records. Any such action to enjoin the release of Confidential Business Information
may be brought in the name of the Developer or the City. The costs, damages, if any, and
attorneys’ fees in any proceeding commenced by the Developer or at its request by the City to
prevent or enjoin the release of Confidential Business Information in any public records relating
to this Agreement or the Project shall be borne by the Developer.

        12.14 Attorneys’ Fees. If any action is brought by either Party against the other Party,
relating to or arising out of this Agreement or the enforcement hereof, the prevailing Party shall
be entitled to recover from the other Party the reasonable attorneys’ fees, costs and expenses
incurred in connection with the prosecution or defense of such action, including the costs and fees
incurred in connection with the enforcement or collection of any judgment obtained in any such
proceeding. The provisions of this Section 10.14 shall survive the termination of this Agreement
and the entry of any judgment and shall not merge, or be deemed to have merged, into any
judgment.

       12.15 Mediation. If at any time during the Term of this Agreement, a dispute arises
between the parties regarding the terms of this Agreement or the rights or obligations of the Parties
hereunder, the Parties shall first, prior to engaging in arbitration or litigation, proceed in good faith
to submit the matter to mediation. The Parties agree that any mediation will be conducted by a
single mediator selected by the Parties. If the Parties cannot agree upon a mediator within 15 days
following written notice of the other Party, the Parties shall select a mutually acceptable mediation
provider entity which entity as soon as is reasonably practicable, shall select a mediator who is a

                                                   15
licensed attorney with general knowledge of contract law and has no ongoing relationship with
either Party. The Parties agree that any costs related to mediation shall be mutually shared between
the Parties and that notwithstanding the foregoing, each Party shall retain its rights to proceed to
arbitration or litigation.

         12.16 Further Assurances. Upon the request of the other Party, each Party agrees to
(i) furnish to the other Party such requested information, (ii) execute and deliver to the other Party
such requested documents and (iii) do such other acts and things reasonably required for the
purpose of carrying out the intent of this Agreement. If such information is not generally available
in the normal course of business, the requesting Party shall bear the reasonable costs of preparing
such information.

        12.17 Waiver of Jury Trial. EACH PARTY HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST
EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY CLAIM,
DEMAND, ACTION OR CAUSE OF ACTION (I) ARISING UNDER THIS AGREEMENT OR
(II) IN ANY WAY CONNECTED WITH OR RELATED OR INCIDENTAL TO THIS
AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE TRANSACTIONS RELATED HERETO. EACH PARTY
HEREBY AGREES AND CONSENTS THAT ANY SUCH CLAIM, DEMAND, ACTION OR
CAUSE OF ACTION SHALL BE DECIDED BY A COURT TRIAL WITHOUT A JURY AND
THAT EITHER PARTY MAY FILE A COPY OF THIS AGREEMENT WITH ANY COURT
AS EVIDENCE OF SUCH WAIVER.

                              [Signatures appear on following page]




                                                 16
CITY:

LEHI CITY,
a municipal corporation of the State of Utah


______________________________________
Name:
Title:

ATTEST:

________________________
City Recorder


DEVELOPER:

THANKSGIVING STATION DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS, LLC,
a Utah limited liability company, by its managers

KC Gardner Company, L.C.,
a Utah limited liability company

By:     __________________________________
        Name:
        Its: Manager

STACK Real Estate, LLC,
a Utah limited liability company

By:     ____________________________________
        Name:
        Its: Manager




                             [Signature Page to Development Agreement]
                                        EXHIBIT A

                                        PROPERTY



      Lot 1, Thanksgiving Point Plat ‘G’ Amended, Amending Thanksgiving Point Plat ‘G’,
Commercial Development, as shown on the official plat thereof recorded in the office of the
Utah County Recorder on September 25, 2018, as Entry No. 91822:2018.




                                             A-1
EXHIBIT B

AREA PLAN




   C-1
           EXHIBIT C

DEPICTION OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY




              C-1
           EXHIBIT D

DEPICTION OF BOUNDARIES OF HTRZ




              D-1
