                  EPIPHANY POINT PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION
                                 PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant        Richard Thurman
                         Meeting Date         December 4, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose         Public hearing and approval of a proposed preliminary subdivision
                         Decision Type        Administrative
                              Location        913 and 939 East Cedar Hollow Road
                          Project Area        1.54 acres
                       Existing Zoning        R-1-Flex
                  Number of Units/Lots        3 Lots
              General Plan Designation        Low Density Residential
                    Existing Land Use         Single Family Homes
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North TH-5                      Undeveloped
                                                 South R-1-10/RA-1               Single Family Homes
                                                  East RA-1                      Single Family Homes
                                                  West R-1-8                     Single Family Homes
                    Date of DRC Review        November 19, 2025
                      Assigned Planner        Brittney Harris

                                             REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission        Public hearing and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.080. Preliminary Plat Approval Process.
The review and approval process for a Preliminary Subdivision Plat is identified in the appendix of this code,
including review by the Reviewing Departments, and review and approval by the Planning Commission follow-
ing a public hearing.

Section 11.100. Effect of Preliminary Subdivision Plat Approval.
A preliminary subdivision plat shall not authorize the development of land. After a preliminary subdivision plat
has been approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant may file an application for final subdivision plat
approval.

  PROPERTY HISTORY
February 19, 1986          Property came into the City as part of the Thompson Annexation

March 22, 2022             City Council approved the Thurman General Plan Amendment from VLDR to LDR.

July 12, 2022              City Council approved the Thurman Zone Change from RA-1 to R-1-Flex

November 14, 2024          Planning Commission approved the Thurman Flag Lot Conditional Use

  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Epiphany Point Preliminary Subdivision located at 913 and 939 East Cedar
Hollow Road in the R-1-Flex zone.

A conditional use flag lot was previously approved for this project. This subdivision includes three lots which requires

                                                                                                                      1
a preliminary subdivision review. Lots 1 and 3 have the required frontage and lot size for the R-1-Flex zone. Lot 2
has the required 20-foot-wide flag stem and all of the lots exceed the 8,000 square foot minimum.

The reviewing departments (DRC) had five comments related to updates on the plat or plans.


     SCOPE OF APPROVAL

Preliminary Subdivisions are an administrative item. This means if they meet the Development Code requirements
they must be approved. The Planning Commission can only require items listed in the Code.

The public can give public comments on this item but again only items listed in the Development Code can be required.
The public may bring up code items they think have not met, they also might request the landowner do things, but
they should recognize that it is a request.


     POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or approve with code required additions the proposed prelimi-
nary subdivision. Any motion should include findings. Possible findings include:

1.    The proposed subdivision meet the frontage and size requirements of the R-1-Flex zone and the previously ap-
      proved flag lot.
2.    Additional findings based upon information presented during the public hearing.




                                                                                                                   2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         November 19, 2025

                                                   Epiphany Point Preliminary
                                                    DRC Redline Comments

Richard Thurman- requests preliminary and final subdivision review of the Epiphany Point, a 3-lot residential development
located at 913 and 939 East Cedar Hollow Road in the F-1-Flex zone.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Brittney Harris
Representatives of the Applicant Present: none
Date of Plans Reviewed: 11/10/25
Time Start:
Time End:

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comment. See power design shown on Sht. 1.
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: No comments
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
1. Verify if the detention basin outlet elevation is set to retain the 80th percentile storm (Pg 3)
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
2. Include Zoning on the plat
3. Plat needs to include the buildings that are to remain shown. Required per Lehi City Development Code Section 11.120
    B 17.
4. Remove the extra line on the flag stem of lot 2 on the final plat.
5. Note not on the plat, please add “Existing structures on Lot 2 are to remain and will be considered legal non-
    confirming until such time as a principle residential home can be constructed on Lot 2”

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)

ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:
APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)
3. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
   improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
   supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
   necessary supplies for the development.
5. Incomplete landscaping and/or irrigation plans may require additional comments to be addressed as part of the check-off
   process.
6. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
7. Show lot addresses on the final plat (must coordinate with Planning Division).
1. Submit Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) through ComplianceGo.com for review by Lehi Public
   Works (Submit to lehicitystormwater@gmail.com). More information available at https://www.lehi-
   ut.gov/departments/water/storm-water/



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         November 19, 2025

8.  Schedule a SWPPP inspection through Daniel Hadlock at (801) 836-3523 or Greg Soper at (385) 415-4073). This
    should be the last item completed prior to scheduling a preconstruction meeting.
9. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
    monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
    Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
    Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
10. Address any comments or conditions from Planning Commission approval of the preliminary
11. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled
12. Planner needs to sign off on building plans prior to the precon meeting

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:
1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
4. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.
STAFF
5. Send a digital copy of the plat to the County for review prior to accepting printed mylar.


DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.



THE PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON DECEMBER 4th
AND UPDATED PLANS CAN BE SUBMITTED FOR CHECK-OFFS

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
