                                     BOYD STEWART PLAT A
                    STEWART SUBDIVISION PLAT AMENDMENT
                                PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                             Applicant       Lon Hutchinson
                         Meeting Date        December 4, 2025
             Requested Action/Purpose        Approval of a proposed plat amendment
                              Location       406 West 600 North
     Existing General Plan Designation       MDR
                       Existing Zoning       R-2
                    Existing Land Use        Single family residential
                 Number of Lots/Units        2 lots
        Adjacent Zoning and Land Use            North R-2                   Single family residential
                                                South R-2                   Single family residential
                                                 East R-2                   Single family residential
                                                 West R-2                   Single family residential
                    Date of DRC Review       November 12, 2025
                      Assigned Planner       Jacob Curtis

                                            REQUIRED ACTION
                   Planning Commission       Final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.340. Vacating, Altering, or Amending a Recorded Subdivision Plat. (Amended 01/23/24)

A. The Planning Commission, following review by the Reviewing Departments, shall be the Land Use Authority
for approving any proposed vacation, alteration, or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion of a subdivision
plat, or any road or lot contained in a subdivision plat. The Planning Commission shall follow all requirements and
procedures identified in Utah State Code Section 10-9a-608.


  PROPERTY HISTORY

June 15, 1872              Property was part of the original boundaries of Lehi City.

January 29, 1951           The City Council approved the Stewart Subdivision.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests approval of the Boyd Stewart Plat A, a plat amendment modifying 19 and 20 of the original
Stewart Subdivision plat from 1951. The purpose of the amendment is to reconfigure the lot lines since the existing
home currently is built over the property line. No new lots are being added to the overall subdivision, but the plan
is to fix the lot lines so that a home can be built on the original lot 20.

The Development Review Committee (DRC) reviewed the proposed plat amendment and had nine redline com-
ments that were primarily technical regarding improvements or utilities. These included the following:

    1.   Provide drive approach location on plans for lot 2
    2.   This should be 15 feet as well for the rear set back

Please consider all of the DRC comments in the motion.


 POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may move to approve or deny the proposed plat amendment. Any motion should include
findings. Possible findings include:

    1.   The proposed subdivision meets/does not meet the requirements of the Development Code.
    2.   Other findings based upon information presented at the public meeting.
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         November 12, 2025

                                                Boyd Stewart Plat A Subdivision
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Loney Hutchinson- requests review of the Boyd Stewart Plat A, a 2-lot subdivision with an existing home located at 406
West 600 North.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Jacob Curtis
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Lon Hutchinson, Karolyn Hutchinson
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/29/25
Time Start: 1:06 pm
Time End: 1:15 pm

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments
Brad – Fiber: No comments
Garion – Fire: No comments
Ryan – Water/Sewer: (rallred@lehi-ut.gov)
    1. Provide drive approach location on plans for lot 2
    2. Location of water mains are different from what you are showing. Lehi City can provide you with the GIS location
        of water mains.
James – Parks: No comments
Gary S. – Building/Inspections: No comments
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments
Gary E. – Engineering:
    3. The sewer lateral should not be located in the PUE space
    4. Sump volume does not appear to be equal to the required volume shown in the SD calculations.
    5. It appears you are retaining on site your own storm water and therefore note #2 is not needed. Typical pages 1 and
        2.
    6. If percolation is used for sumps/retention basins, provide the percolation rates as determined by a geotechnical
        engineer with a safety factor or 2. Otherwise, use no discharge.
    7. Relabel: PUE
        (this is not along the roadway)
    8. Add note to plat:
        Each lot is to retain on site their own storm water and is not allowed to run off onto adjacent property.
Luke – Traffic: No comments
Kim – Planning:
    9. This should be 15 feet as well for the rear set back

PRECON MEETING REQUIRED? (FULL)

ITEMS TO COMPLETE PRIOR TO SCHEDULING A PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING:

THE CHECK-OFF PROCESS WILL TAKE AT LEAST A MONTH FROM THE TIME PLANS AND COST
ESTIMATE ARE RECEIVED. IT IS THE APPLICANTS RESPONSIBIILTY TO ALLOCATE AN
APPROPRIATE AMOUNT OF TIME.

APPLICANT
1. For checkoff plans, a full plan submission is required including, where applicable: erosion control plan with BMPS,
   landscape plans, civil plans, building elevations, power plans, etc.
2. Provide an engineer’s cost estimate for the cost of all improvements to Lehi City Engineering. (Stefanie Daggs-
   Sdaggs@lehi-ut.gov or 385-201-2523)



Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 2
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                         November 12, 2025

3. 10% Warranty Escrow Bond or Letter of Credit and Public/Private Improvement Agreement for all public and private
   improvements must be in place (from a financial institution with a branch in Utah).
4. Pay all necessary inspection fees and any up-front supply costs required by the City for power supplies, water system
   supplies, public signs (stop signs, address signs, etc.) and any other associated costs so that the City can order all
   necessary supplies for the development.
5. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the construction drawings.
6. Obtain PLSS (Public Land Survey System) clearance letter from the Utah County Surveyor Office. If there are PLSS
   monuments located on or adjacent to property a monument excavation permit may be required.
   Per Utah Code 17-23-14 and 17-23-15. Contact info. Email surveyor@utahcounty.gov Address 2855 South State
   Street, Provo, UT 84606 (801) 851-8671 or (801) 851-8669.
STAFF
7. Plans need to be signed by Community Development Director and Public Works Director before precon can be scheduled

PRIOR TO RECORDING OF PLAT:

1. Provide a Mylar of the final plat for recording with the owners notarized signature(s).
2. Include surveyor’s and engineer’s stamps and signatures on the plat.
3. Submit a title report to the planner over the project for review.
4. Provide a signed easement verification sheet (for proposed public utility easements on the plat).
5. All City utilities/infrastructure has been accepted and signed off by all Lehi City Inspectors.
STAFF
6. Send a digital copy of the plat to the County for review prior to accepting printed mylar.

DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. On the power, developer will install conduit; Lehi City Power will install all other required power infrastructure shown
   on the plans and charge the developer for the costs. These costs are separate from power impact fees that are paid with
   the building permit.
2. Developer is responsible to purchase, move or remove any existing RMP facilities.
3. Developer is responsible to furnish adequate rights of way or easements for construction of off-site power line extensions.
4. Once approved by the Planning Commission or City Council (whichever is applicable) plans may be submitted for check-
   off. Check-off plans consist of one 24x36 set of plans submitted to the Planning Department. When changes need to be
   made to a check-off set, revise the affected sheets only. Each new submittal will require a revision date on each new
   sheet.
5. Prior to the pre-construction meeting, Lehi City Staff will make copies of plans for the meeting from the check-off set
   and the developer will pay fees for the copies.
6. All signage will require a separate review and approval process
7. All required private improvements (except private landscaping) shall be completed prior to the certificate of occupancy
   being granted.
8. The approval of a development shall be effective for a period of two (2) years from the date the development is approved
   by the Planning Commission or City Council, whichever is applicable.
9. Approved vehicle access for firefighting shall be provided to all construction or demolition sites. Vehicle access shall
   be provided to within 100 feet of temporary or permanent fire department connections. Vehicle access shall be
   provided by either a twenty (20) foot minimum width temporary or permanent road, capable of supporting vehicle
   loading under all weather conditions. Vehicle access shall be kept clear of all fencing, barricades, dumpsters, vehicles,
   construction materials and debris and maintained until permanent fire apparatus access roads are available.

THIS ITEM WILL BE SWITCHED TO AN AMENDMENT TO THE STEWART SUBDIVISION PLAT. IT WILL BE
SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON DECEMBER 4, 2025.

PLANNER REMEMBER TO SEND PLAN SET TO POWER




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                2 of 2
