                             FINAL SPUR RANCH CONCEPT PLAN
                                  PLANNING COMMISSION REPORT
                              Applicant        Jensen Davis
                          Meeting Date         December 4th, 2025
              Requested Action/Purpose         Review and consideration
                         Decision Type         Administrative
                               Location        2424 West 900 North
                           Project Area        7.17 acres
                        Existing Zoning        TH-5
      General Plan Land Use Designation        Very Low-Density Residential Agriculture (VLDRA)
         Adjacent Zoning and Land Use             North R-1-22          Colledge Farms Subdivision
                                                  South R-1-22          Colledge Farms Subdivision
                                                   East R-1-22          Single-family residential
                                                   West R-1-22          Colledge Farms Subdivision
                      Date of DRC Review       November 5, 2025
                        Assigned Planner       Katie Bussell

                                              REQUIRED ACTION
                     Planning Commission       Public hearing, review, and final approval


  APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENT CODE REGULATIONS

Section 11.010. Concept Plan – Applicability:
The Concept Plan gives the applicant, staff, Planning Commission and City Council an opportunity to discuss the
project in the conceptual stage. The applicant can use the Concept Plan meeting to receive direction on project layout
as well as discuss the procedure for approval, the specifications and requirements that may be required for layout of
streets, drainage, water, sewerage, fire protection, and similar matters prior to the preparation of a more detailed
preliminary subdivision plat.


  REPORT ANALYSIS

The applicant requests review of the Final Spur Ranch Concept Plan. This concept plan is for a 14-lot single-family
residential subdivision located at 2424 West 900 North. The applicant is looking for feedback on the layout and lot
sizes of the subdivision. This report will go over the current zoning and general plan designation, and the DRC
comments.

Zoning
The current zoning of this property is TH-5. A zone change and water dedication would be required before any
development can occur on the property. The current General Plan designation on the property is Very Low-Density
Residential Agriculture (VLDRA). This designation would only allow for the R-1-22 zone, which would be 22,000
square foot lots.

The applicant believes this zoning designation would be too restrictive for development and would be out of place
with the surrounding subdivision. The proposed concept plan, therefore, matches the existing development pattern,
and would not meet the zoning requirements of the R-1-22 zone. The applicant is aware of this and is planning to
apply for a General Plan Amendment in February, but wanted feedback from the Planning Commission and City
Council on the layout of the subdivision.

The layout of the subdivision meets the zoning designation of the RA-1 zone. The smallest lot is 15,000 square feet,
and the largest is around 25,000 square feet. There will be road connections to the existing road stubs from the




Final Spur Ranch Concept Plan
Colledge Farms subdivision.

The layout closely matches the existing property lines of the surrounding homes in the Colledge Farms subdivision.
Colledge Farms is a Planned Residential Development, so they were given flexibility in their lot sizes in exchange
for ten percent of the total project area being set aside as open space. The applicant explored created a PRD for this
subdivision as well, but as the project area is less than ten acres it would have been difficult to set aside a portion of
the property as open space. The applicant has instead chosen to pursue a General Plan Amendment and subsequent
zone change with the proposed layout.

DRC Comments
There were eight redline comments from the DRC, including:
1. New roads should conform to the City standards of 60’ ROW with 32’ asphalt, 5’ walks, and 7’ planters.
2. The general layout of the concept plan looks good as far as street connections. However several of the lots
    cannot be approved in this layout because they don't conform to the minimum lot size of 22,000 sq. ft. under the
    Very Low Density Residential/Agricultural General Plan designation. Unless the City Council chooses to amend
    the General Plan or change the zone, this layout does not meet the standards of the Development Code.

Please consider all DRC comments in your motion.


  SCOPE OF APPROVAL

As a concept plan this is an administrative item. This concept plan cannot be approved according to the current
zoning. However, the applicant desires feedback on the concept plan from the Planning Commission and City
Council.

This is a public hearing item. Comments focused on specific concerns and ways to mitigate them are the most
beneficial.


  POSSIBLE MOTIONS AND FINDINGS

The Planning Commission may approve, approve with modifications, or deny the proposed concept plan. Any motion
should include findings. Possible findings include:

    1. The proposed concept is/is not consistent with the Lehi City Development Code.
    2. The proposed concept does/ does not conform to the goals and policies of the General Plan.
    3. Other findings based upon information presented at the public hearing.




Final Spur Ranch Concept Plan
Lehi City Development Review Committee                                                                          November 5, 2025

                                                Final Spur Ranch Concept Plan
                                                   DRC Redline Comments

Jaren Davis – requests review of the Final Spur Ranch concept plan for a 14-lot single-family residential subdivision
located on 7.17 acres at 2424 West 900 North.

DRC Members Present: Glade Kirkham, Garion Rowett, Ryan Allred, Shelbey Brewer, Kim Struthers, Gary Smith, Gary
    Ellis, James Farnsworth, Luke Seegmiller, Brad Wilbur
Assigned Planner: Katie Bussell
Representatives of the Applicant Present: Terry Bishop, Jaren Davis
Date of Plans Reviewed: 10/28/25
Time Start: 1:45 PM
Time End: 2:00 PM

DRC REDLINE COMMENTS:
Glade – Power: No comments.
Brad – Fiber: No comments.
Garion – Fire: No comments.
Ryan – Water/Sewer:
1. 6'' culinary main, 8'' pi main, 15'' stormdrain, 8'' sewer main in Colledge Drive.
2. 6'' culinary main and 8'' pi main. NO sewer or storm drain in 2550 west.
James – Parks: No comments.
Gary S. – Building/Inspections:
3. A soil report will be required if this moves past concept.
Shelbey – Public Works: No comments.
Gary E. – Engineering:
4. New roads should conform to the City standards of 60' ROW with 32' asphalt, 5' walks and 7' planters.
5. At time of final site plan, provide the location of the storm water retention basin(s) or detention basin(s) retaining the
    80th percentile storm
6. Lot frontages along 900 North will need to be installed as part of this project.
Luke – Traffic: No comments.
Kim – Planning:
7. Recommend including the original base density with the 12 lots to showcase the difference.
8. The general layout of the concept plan looks good as far as street connections. However several of the lots cannot be
    approved in this layout because they don't conform to the minimum lot size of 22,000 sq. ft. under the Very Low
    Density Residential/Agricultural General Plan designation. Unless the City Council chooses to amend the General
    Plan or change the zone, this layout does not meet the standards of the Development Code.



DRC GENERAL COMMENTS:
1. The concept plan shall not constitute a development permit. (Does not vest).

THIS ITEM IS/IS NOT REQUESTING AN EXCEPTION.
(An exception requires stamped addressed envelopes for public noticing if the project proceeds to Planning Commission)

THIS ITEM WILL BE SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ON DECEMBER 11TH.




Note: This list of corrections and deficiencies should not be considered as an all-inclusive or final list. The items listed need to be
corrected and resolved and a new set of information submitted for review by the DRC. Further corrections and deficiencies may
still be noted as the DRC further reviews the resubmitted information.

                                                                1 of 1
