                               West Jordan city
Who is filling out this report?
Larry D Gardner
City Planner
larry.gardner@westjordan.utah.gov
801-569-5067

Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element:


Link to adoption resolution or ordinance:
"C:\Users\larry.gardner\OneDrive - City of West Jordan\GENERA~2\PLANNI~1\`USERS~1\-
PROJE~1\GENERA~1\2022MO~1\ORDINA~1.PDF"


Link to general plan, moderate income housing element:
https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/westjordanut/latest/westjordan_genplan/0-0-0-668

You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting.
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting AND our implementation plan or strategies were updated or
amended during the reporting period between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.




                                                                                         1221
   We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting AND our implementation
    plan or strategies were updated or amended during the
  reporting period between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.

2-5 YEAR REPORTING WITH NEW STRATEGIES OR AMENDMENTS The following section
is for communities who have amended their strategies or plans while in years 2-5 of reporting.
You will first provide the new strategies you have adopted or changed. Afterward, you will report
on the previous progress made with your old strategies. Note that if you amend or adopt new
strategies during the reporting period (Aug 1, 2024–July 31, 2025), you must report on the
progress of the original strategies (e.g., you previously pursued strategy A, but switched to
strategy B on January 1. You would provide the new information about your plan to pursue
strategy A, then report on the progress made on strategy B from August to January 1).


STRATEGY SELECTION & PLANNING
Select which strategy from Utah Code that you included in your moderate-income housing
element. (For the list of strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code
Section 10-9a-403 for municipalities, and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
E
G
T
U

For that strategy, list each benchmark and the planned implementation timeline(s). A
benchmark is a key task(s) to advance this strategy and should be specific and measurable.
Timelines should be time bound (e.g., annually, quarterly; Q1, Q2; 2025, 2026, 2027; specific
dates; etc.)

E
Strategy 10-9A-403(2)(b)(iii)(E) Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal or
detached accessory dwelling units in residential zones.Strategy. Strategy type One
time1.Timeline: Reduce regulations related to internal or detached accessory dwelling units in
residential zones by December 31, 2026.a.Measure: Identify regulations that are impeding
development of internal and detached accessory dwelling units.i.Complete strategy 2a by
December 31, 2025.b.Measure: Draft ordinance text and present to City Council, Committee of
the Whole.i.Complete strategy 2b by December 31, 2025.c.Measure: Draft ordinance
text.d.Hold Planning Commission public hearing.e.Hold City Council public hearing.f.Adopt
ordinance amendment reducing regulations related to internal or detached accessory dwelling
units in residential zones.i.Complete measures 2 c-f by December 31, 2026.




                                                                                                1222
G
Strategy 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii) (G) Amend land use regulations to allow for higher density or new
moderate income residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit
investment corridors. Strategy type one time.Analysis of Strategy: The current City Center
ordinance does not mention the creation of moderate income housing within the CC district. The
CC ordinance could be modified to require with any new development in the CC zone that
moderate income housing be a percentage of and a component of CC
development.Implementation Plan for this Strategy1. Timeline: Modify City Center (CC) land
use regulation by December 31, 2026A.Measure: Analyze City Center zone ordinance and
determine percentage of and qualifications for new moderate income housing
development.B.Measure: Determine how moderate income housing should be integrated into
CC zones.i.Benchmark: Complete Measure a and b by December 31, 2025.C.Measure: Identify
how new moderate income housing will be subsidized.D.Measure: Analyze potential RDA
housing set aside for new moderate income housing development in CC zone.i.Benchmark:
Complete measures c and d by May 31, 2026.E.Measure: Start process to amend CC zone
language.F.Hold Planning Commission public hearing(s).G.Hold City Council public
hearing(s).i.Benchmark: Complete measures e through g by October 31, 2026H.Measure: Final
revisions.i.Benchmark adopt by December 31, 2026.

T
(V) Strategy 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii) (T) Develop a moderate income housing project for residents
who are disabled or 55 years old or older;Analysis of Strategy: This strategy will analyze and
possibly build a moderate income housing development, possibly on city owned property.
1.Timeline: Complete MIH project by May 31, 2031a.Measure: Identify potential
locations.b.Measure: Identify potential funding sources.c.Measure: Identify and interview
potential partners.i.Benchmark: Complete measures a, b and c by May 31, 2026.d.Measure:
Determine development partners.e.Measure: Determine city involvement in MIH
project.f.Measure Determine funding sources.i.Benchmark: Complete measures d through f by
December 31, 2026.g.Measure: Analysis of proposed land uses and utility constraints with each
MIH project.h.Measure: Analysis of proposed connectivity improvements.i.Measure: Analysis of
proposed MIH residential density of each MIH project. i.Benchmark: Complete measures g
through i by December 31, 2027.j.Measure: Develop concept plan and make necessary
revisions.k.Measure: Entitlement process.l.Measure: Amend land use map.m.Measure: Amend
zoning map.i.Benchmark: Complete j through m by December 31, 2028.n.Measure: Preliminary
plan completion and review.i.Benchmark: Complete by July 31, 2029.o.Measure: Final plan and
revisions.i.Benchmark approval by December 31, 2029.a.Measure: Construction
phase.i.Benchmark: Construction complete by May 31, 2031.

U
(V) Strategy 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii) (U) Develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with
Section 10-9a-403.1. Analysis of Strategy: This is a requirement of state law because West
Jordan has six TRAX stations. Planning has been done in the past in all station areas and the
new plans will update and identify needed changes.1.Timeline: Adopt four station area plans by
December 31, 2025. (Complete)a.Measure: Identify the four station areas to be planned.1.Task:




                                                                                           1223
Apply for Technical Assistance by July 15, 2022 (Complete)b.Measure: Complete existing
conditions analysis of the four station areas.i.Benchmark: Complete Measure a and b by August
31, 2022. (Complete)c.Measure: Identify stakeholders.1.Task: Identify stakeholders by July 1,
2022 (Complete)d.Interview Stakeholders.1.Task: Interview stakeholders by December 31,
2022 (Complete)e.Meet with adjacent jurisdictions.1.Task: Meet with adjacent jurisdictions by
August 1, 2022(Complete)f.Hold public meetings.i.Benchmark: Complete measures c through f
by December 31, 2023. (Complete)g.Measure: Analysis of proposed land uses in each station
area.h.Measure: Analysis of proposed connectivity improvements.i.Measure: Analysis of
proposed residential density in each station area, including moderate income
housing.i.Benchmark: Complete measures g through i by July 31, 2024.(Complete)j.Measure:
Concept plan and revisions.i.Benchmark: Complete measure j by December 31, 2024.
(Complete)k.Measure: Preliminary plan completion and review.i.Benchmark: Complete by July
31, 2025(Complete)l.Measure: Final plan and revisions.i.Benchmark adopt by December 31,
2025. (Complete)2.4th Station Area Plan adopted in accordance with Section 10-9a-403.1
March 25, 20253.Revised Timeline: Adopt the fifth and sixth Station Area Plan by December
31st 2026.a.Measure: Identify the fifth and sixth station areas to be planned.i.Task: Apply for
Technical Assistance by May 1, 2025 (Done)b.Measure: Identify Stakeholders.i.Task: Identify
Stakeholders by July 1, 2025c.Measure: Interview Stakeholders.i.Task: Interview Stakeholders
by August 1, 2025d.Measure: Hold Public Meetingsi.Task: Complete by March 1,
2026e.Measure: Analysis of Proposed Land Use in Each Station Areaf.Measure: Analysis of
proposed connectivity improvementsg.Measure: Analysis of proposed residential density in
each station, area, including moderate income housingi.Benchmark: Complete measures e
through g by December 1, 2025h.Measure: Concept Plan and revisionsi.Task: Complete by July
31, 2026i.Measure: Final Plan and Revisions adopted by City Councili.Task: Complete by
December 31, 2026




ZONING MAP
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map.
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances.
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial
Resource Center.


Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov.
Uploaded

When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur?
25-May




                                                                                            1224
ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. Do not include any parcels or
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it
in this data. If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your
report.


Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a
building permit.
8426

Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that
have NOT pulled a building permit.
950

Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions,
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building
permit.
7998

From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units,
parcels, or lots.
8426

Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc.




                                                                                              1225
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to
support the data reported above.
Water infrastructure is currently being developed. Could be a lag time of 5-8 years for
approximately 1500 units

Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.).
West Jordan City has two large developments tat make up 5940 of the 8624 Units. Terraine
West Bench and Jones Ranch. Terraine is fully serviceable and Jones Ranch is only partially
serviceable as of 2024. Both projects are on a 20+ year build out.




ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external,
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date.


How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units?
(select one)
Count of business licenses or permits to rent issued

Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission
date:
110



Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
35


Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
110


Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please
provide the count and type of permit or license issued)
0




                                                                                            1226
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report.

1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. (For the list of
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
A
B
F
J
M
O
T
V


2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is
still helpful to making progress on the strategy.
A
Strategy 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii) (A) Rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of
moderate income housing. Strategy type ongoing.Analysis of strategy: The Interchange Overlay
Zone (IOZ) was adopted in December 2020 by the City Council and is a tool that the city can
use to create compatible neighborhoods adjacent to the Mountain View Corridor. The reason
the IOZ was adopted was to create more desirable development patterns adjacent to the
Mountain View Corridor and to support residential uses and densities anticipated by the General
Plan. The IOZ ordinance allows the City Council the discretion to set the density for the
properties located in the IOZ, after receiving recommendation from the Planning Commission.
The IOZ is a perfect tool to create additional moderate income housing in the City because of
anticipated increased densities and because the use and density can be controlled by a master
development agreement mandating a certain percentage of the development, as determined by
the Council, be developed as moderate income housing.Implementation Plan for this Strategy
1. Timeline: Rezone all qualifying properties to the Interchange Overlay Zone (IOZ) by
December 31, 2025.         A. Measure: Identify the areas that qualify for the IOZ.   B.
Measure: Complete existing conditions analysis of the areas.          i. Benchmark: Complete




                                                                                            1227
Measure a and b by May 31, 2023.         C. Measure: Identify utility constraints of each area and
plot timeframe of utility development.     D. Measure: Identify transportation constraints of each
area and plot timeframe of transportation development.        E. Measure: Conduct analysis of
potential residential density in each IOZ area, including recommended percentage of moderate
income housing.          i. Benchmark: Complete measures c through e by December 31, 2023.
F. Meet with property owners to determine feasibility.         i. Benchmark: Complete measure f
by March 31, 2024.         G. Measure: Update Future Land Use Map in each IOZ area to reflect
future rezone to IOZ.i.Benchmark: Complete measure g by July 31, 2024 October 31, 2025.
(Strategy amended by West Jordan City Council adopting Ordinance 25-24 on June 10, 2025.
Ordinance Attached)(Land use map amended by West Jordan City Council adopting Ordinance
25-26 on June 24, 2025. Ordinance Attached)          H. Measure: Determine if master
development agreement (MDA) is required prior to rezone to IOZ.          I. Measure: Identify
components of MDA.i.Benchmark: Complete measure h and i by December 31, 2024 October
31, 2025.(Master Development Agreement approved by West Jordan City Council adopting
Ordinance 25-25 on June 24, 2025. Ordinance Attached)            J. Measure: Start process to
rezone areas to IOZ.        K. Hold Planning Commission public hearing(s).        L. Hold City
Council public hearing(s).        i. Benchmark: Complete by July 31, 2025(Zoning Map
amended by West Jordan City Council adopting Ordinance 25-25 on June 24, 2025. Ordinance
Attached)     M. Measure: Final revisions.         i. Benchmark adopt by December 31, 2025.
N. Measure: Record plat for first IOZ development          i.Benchmark: June 1, 2026(Strategy
amended by West Jordan City Council adopting Ordinance 25-24 on June 10, 2025. Ordinance
Attached)

B
Strategy 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii) (B) Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation or expansion of
infrastructure that facilitates the construction of moderate income housing. Strategy type on-
going.Analysis of Strategy: West Jordan City is actively expanding its water and sewer
infrastructure. Two new water reservoirs will serve Dry Creek and the housing associated with
the Southwest Quadrant. Dry Creek Highlands has a master development agreement that
requires between 5% and 10% of the unit count to be moderate income housing. A component
of the Southwest quadrant will be for “workforce” housing, housing that will be in the moderate
income range. Both development areas are in the beginning phases of construction in 2022 and
will be under development for the next twenty plus years. The investment in new water and
sewer infrastructure will serve the moderate income component of both developments for the
foreseeable future.Implementation Plan for this Strategy 1. Timeline: Demonstrate nexus by
July 31, 2024.         i. Benchmark: If feasible, establish nexus and potential rehabilitation of
and/or the creation of MIH by July 31, 2024.As a local municipality, the City of West Jordan is
responsible for constructing and maintaining infrastructure for water (culinary and secondary),
sewer, storm water and roads. This infrastructure forms a city-wide network that services all
forms of residential housing, including moderate-income housing. Due to the regionally
interconnected and interdependent nature of these systems and the myriad of land uses that
they service, it is difficult to associate a particular part of the system with a specific type of land
use such as moderate income housing. However, the City has identified specific infrastructure
projects within the boundaries of the Jones Ranch planned community, Terrane planned




                                                                                                   1228
community and the Southwest Quadrant that will service both moderate income housing and
other land uses. These projects involve water, sewer, storm water, and road infrastructure
improvements.a.Measure: Identify areas where infrastructure improvements will result in
preservation of and/or the creation of MIH.How decision supports implementation of MIH.
Despite the inherent difficulty in identifying specific infrastructure improvements that will affect
moderate income housing specifically, the City of West Jordan has identified 3 large areas that
will have the greatest potential for moderate income housing. These areas include Jones
Ranch, a planned community on the west end of the city comprising 592 acres, and the
Southwest Quadrant, which is a 959-acre area designated for a mix of industrial, commercial
and residential land uses and Terraine a mix use community 675 acres in are at the northwest
portion of West Jordan. All of these areas are required to have a percentage between 5% and
10% moderate income housing. This is agreed to and enforced by development agreements.
All of these areas are on the west side of the city where water infrastructure is currently lacking,
but actively being developed, the exception is Terraine where water and sewer are adequate
and are provided by Kearns Improvement.West Jordan City water Pressure Zones 5, 6 and 7
cover both Jones Ranch and the SWQ areas and are poised to be improved with 5 water tanks,
4 booster stations, and several miles worth of transmission line, as designated by the 2022
West Jrdan City Water Master Plan. These are City-initiated capital improvement projects and
do not include planned transmission lines within Jones Ranch that will be constructed by the
developer. Many of the main lines in the Southwest Quadrant are planned transmission lines
also and will be installed by future developers.All of the City-initiated sewer capital improvement
projects are located outside of the Jones Ranch and Southwest Quadrant areas per the 2019
Sewer Master Plan. While new network of 10” and 12” main lines are planned in these areas,
these lines will be constructed by future developers as these areas develop.The 2023
Stormwater Master Plan has planned for 2 regional detention basins within Jones Ranch, along
with a main line along 9000 South and a few culverts along Barney’s Creek. The Southwest
Quadrant is planned to have a new main line sections along State Highway U-111, 9400 South
and 6800 West. A few culverts are also planned for Barney’s Wash.Some of the planned roads
within Jones Ranch are already under construction, namely the extensions of 8600 South and
9000 South out to State Highway U-111. 9000 South will eventually extend beyond U-111 to the
city’s western boundary, and 7200 South will be extended south to the future 9000 South
extension. Other improvements in Jones Ranch include 2 signal intersections on 9000 South, 2
signal intersections on U-111, and 3 new roundabouts.Within the Southwest Quadrant, 2 new
signal intersections will be built on New Bingham Highway and new collector roads at 8000
West and 9400 South. State Highway U-111 is also planned to be widened to 5 lanes, from the
north border of the city to New Bingham Highway.b.Measure: Determine cost of infrastructure
improvements.The city-initiated stormwater and road improvements within Jones Ranch will
total $57,622,000. All sewer improvements within Jones Ranch will be installed by the
developer, so there is no City funding for such improvements. The water improvements will
affect both Jones Ranch, the Southwest Quadrant and, by extension, the entire city as a whole,
and total $75,991,000. Some of the road improvements also benefit both regions, which total
$71,970,000. Again, these costs reflect city-initiated capital improvement projects and do not
include planned infrastructure to be constructed within future developments.i.Benchmark:
Complete Measure a, b and c by July 31, 2023.c.Measure: If feasible, identify potential




                                                                                                1229
preservation of or creation of MIH because of infrastructure investment.Market response. The
previously discussed master planned water, sewer, storm water and road system improvements
will be constructed within the boundaries of Jones Ranch, Terraine and the Southwest Quadrant
while the improvements will service not only these developments but to the entire city-wide
utility network the improvements will also result in the development of moderate income units. At
present Jones Ranch and Terraine are required, based on a development agreement, to
construct between 5% and 10% moderate income housing throughout the development. The
maximum units that can be constructed in Jones Ranch is 2940 units therefore the range is
between 147 and 294 units of moderate income housing. Jones Ranch has commenced
construction, and 170 building permits have been issued with 4 units being in the moderate
income range. Neither Jones Ranch as a whole nor the moderate income hosing would be
constructed without investment in critical infrastructure. The Southwest Quadrant and Terraine
will follow the same Jones Ranch model as this development area becomes entitled. It is
anticipated that for both areas discussed several hundred moderate income units will be
constructed all because of investment in critical infrastructure. d.Measure: Establish nexus
between investment in infrastructure and creation of MIH.The link between critical infrastructure
investment and development of moderate income housing is undeniable. Yes, market rate
housing will also be constructed but because of awareness on the need for moderate income
housing, careful planning and decision making by the city council and the funding of
infrastructure hundreds of units of housing in the moderate income range will also be
constructed in Jones Ranch and the Southwest Quadrant. i.Benchmark: If feasible establish
nexus and potential rehabilitation of and/or the creation of MIH by July 31, 2024.

F
Strategy 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii) (F) Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income
residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment
corridors, commercial centers, or employment centers. Strategy type ongoing.Analysis of
Strategy: The Residential Overlay District (ROD) is a tool that the city can use to promote and
facilitate the redevelopment of large, underutilized, retail commercial properties with an influx of
new residential and mixed-use development. The purpose of the ROD is to promote and
maintain the viability of commercial retail shopping areas. The ROD will also reduce traffic
congestion, air pollution and commutes to already existing shopping and entertainment areas. It
is the intent of these districts to generally:• Encourage flexibility in the redevelopment and
reinvestment in retail and entertainment based properties.• Encourage the use of innovative
approaches to redevelopment that utilize sustainable development practices.• Encourage and
promote pedestrian activity and reduce vehicle miles traveled. This goal includes consideration
of off-site activities.• Facilitate the redevelopment, and use of properties in West Jordan where
public infrastructure is already in place.• The ROD is not intended as a development tool on
undeveloped property. However, the ROD may be overlayed on remnant properties that
currently exist within retail and entertainment developments that were intended to be but have
not been developed in SC-2 and SC-3 Zones.The residential density in the ROD shall be a
minimum of forty five (45) dwelling units per acre up to a maximum of seventy five (75) dwelling
units per acre. Density is a function of site, landscaping and parking requirements.A minimum
moderate income housing percentage should be required at entitlement and enforced through a




                                                                                                1230
master development agreement.Implementation Plan for this Strategy 1. Timeline: Rezone all
qualifying properties, approved by the City Council, to the Residential Overlay District (ROD) by
December 31, 2025.       A. Measure: Identify the areas that qualify for the ROD.        B.
Measure: Complete existing conditions analysis of potential ROD areas.          i. Benchmark:
Complete Measure a and b by March 31, 2023.         C. Measure: Identify utility constraints of
each area and plot timeframe.      D. Measure: Identify transportation constraints of each area
and plot timeframe.     E. Measure: Conduct analysis of potential residential density in each
ROD area, including recommended percentage of moderate income housing.                i.
Benchmark: Complete measures c through e by September 30, 2023.             F. Meet with property
owners to determine feasibility.      i. Benchmark: Complete measure f by December 31,
2023.     G. Measure: Update Future Land Use Map in each ROD area to reflect future rezone
to ROD.       i. Benchmark: Complete measure g by July 31, 2024. Land use map amendment
approved by Ordinance 24- 55 on December 4, 2024. Ordinance 24-55 attached.                  H.
Measure: Determine if master development agreement (MDA) is required prior to rezone to
ROD.      I. Measure: Identify components of MDA.          i. Benchmark: Complete measure h
and i by December 31, 2024.It has been determined that development on the property will
require a master development agreement because of utility constraints and because
development in the Residential Overlay District requires an MDA. However, discussion points
for the MDA could not be determined because the property owner is no longer interested in
developing the site. This strategy is being replaced as described in Ordinance 25-24 which is
attached.      J. Measure: Start process to rezone areas to ROD.        K. Hold Planning
Commission public hearing(s).      L. Hold City Council public hearing(s).        i. Benchmark:
Complete measures j through l by July 31, 2025       M. Measure: Final revisions.           i.
Benchmark adopt by December 31, 2025.West Jordan City will not be rezoning the property
because the property owner is no longer interested in developing the site. This strategy is being
replaced as described in Ordinance 25-24 which is attached.

J
Strategy 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii) (J) Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new
developments. Strategy type ongoing.Analysis of Strategy: The city is currently in process to
adopt the Integrated Housing Ordinance (IHD). This proposed ordinance will allow a density
increase in the overall development if the applicant agrees to construct moderate income
housing. The ordinance requires a minimum of 3% of the project be moderate income housing
and allows the density increase beyond the minimum. The integrated housing ordinance
requires integration of multi-family with single family units. Any development using the IHD will
be new development up to 90 acres in area.Implementation Plan for this Strategy 1. Timeline:
Implement Integrated Housing Ordinance (IHD) by December 31, 2024. A. Adopt Integrated
Housing Ordinance.        i. Benchmark: Complete measure a by September 30, 2022.              B.
Measure: Identify the areas that could be used for the IHD.       C. Measure: Complete existing
conditions analysis of each area.      D. Measure: Identify utility constraints of each area and
plot timeframe.     E. Measure: Identify transportation constraints of each area and plot
timeframe.     F. Measure: Conduct analysis of potential residential density in each IHD area,
including recommended percentage of moderate income housing.               i. Benchmark:
Complete Measure b through f by December 31, 2022.             G. Meet with property owners/




                                                                                              1231
developers to determine feasibility.     i. Benchmark: Complete measure g by March 31,
2023.       H. Measure: Update Future Land Use Map in each IHD area to reflect future rezone
to IHD.        i. Benchmark: Complete measure h by July 31, 2023.     I. Measure: Determine
if master development agreement (MDA) is required prior to rezone to IHD.     J. Measure:
Identify components of MDA.         i. Benchmark: Complete measure i and J by October 31,
2023.It was determined that a mater development agreement is required and was adopted with
Ordinance 24-23. Attached       K. Measure: Start process to rezone areas to IHD.     L. Hold
Planning Commission public hearing(s).Planning Commission public hearing was held on April
16, 2024. M. Hold City Council public hearing(s).          i. Benchmark: Complete measures
k through m by July 31, 2024City Council Public Hearing was held on May 22, 2024.      N.
Measure: Final revisions.      i. Benchmark adopt by December 31, 2024.Integrated housing
ordinance was approved for the property on July 31, 2024 by Ordinance 24-24. Attached.
1.Timeline: Implement Integrated Housing Ordinance (IHD) approved in 2024. a.Measure:
Approve First IHD Plati.Benchmark: Complete measure by October 31st 2025b.Measure: Build
first ten income-restricted Moderate Income Dwelling Uniti.Benchmark: Complete measure by
December 31, 2026

M
Strategy 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii) (M) Demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community land
trust program for moderate income housing. Strategy type one time.Analysis of Strategy: The
city is currently in process to adopt the Integrated Housing Ordinance (IHD). This proposed
ordinance will allow a density increase in the overall development if the applicant agrees to
construct moderate income housing. The IHD anticipates that the moderate income housing
would be held in a community land trust. West Jordan has not participated in a community land
trust (CLT) before. The purpose of this strategy would be to explore the possibility of partnering
with a community land trust for moderate income housing.Implementation Plan for this
StrategyExplore participation in a community land trust program for moderate income housing.
1. Timeline: Determine feasibility by July 31, 2024.        A. Measure: Identify potential CLT
partners.     B. Measure: Determine city involvement.            i. Benchmark: Complete Measure
a and b by May 31, 2023.        C. Measure: If feasible start process for city involvement in CLT.
D. Measure: Determine how city will be involved and requirements of CLT.             E. Measure:
Select CLT partner.        F. Measure: Complete required documents for CLT partnership.             i.
Benchmark: Complete measures c through f by December 31, 2023.               G. Hold City Council
public hearing(s).        i. Benchmark: Complete measures g by March 31, 2023.           H.
Measure: Final revisions.i.Benchmark if feasible adopt by July 31, 2023.West Jordan has
determined that this strategy is not a feasible at this time. A new strategy will be adopted prior to
the 2025 reporting period. i. Benchmark if feasible adopt by July 31, 2024.It has been
determined that this strategy is not feasible based on lack of willing CLT partners.

O
Strategy 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii) (O) Apply for or partner with an entity that applies for state or
federal funds or tax incentives to promote the construction of moderate income housing, an
entity that applies for programs offered by the Utah Housing Corporation within that agency's




                                                                                                  1232
funding capacity, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by the Department
of Workforce Services, an entity that applies for affordable housing programs administered by an
association of governments established by an interlocal agreement under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal
Cooperation Act,an entity that applies for services provided by a public housing authority to preserve and
create moderate income housing, or any other entity that applies for programs or services that promote
the construction or preservation of moderate income housing. Strategy Type one time. Analysis of
Strategy: The City Council is desirous to explore the possibility of applying for funding sources to create
moderate income housing and/or partnering with an experienced entity that will assist in this effort.
Implementation Plan for this Strategy 1. Timeline: Complete MIH project by December 31, 2028. A.
Measure: determine potential MIH projects, including potential locations. B. Measure: Identify potential
funding sources. C. Measure: Identify and interview potential partners. i. Benchmark: Complete Measure
a, b and c by December 31, 2023. D. Measure: Determine development partners. E. Measure: Determine
city involvement in MIH project. F. Measure: Determine funding sources. i. Benchmark: Complete
Measure d through f by July 31,2024. In August 2022, staff made contact with J Fisher Company (“JFC”),
a non-profit multi-family housing developer at the Utah Housing Matters Conference in Midway, Utah. On
October 10, 2022 Larry Gardner, City Planner, Chris Pengra, Economic Development Director, and Lisa
Elgin,Associate Planner met with representatives from JFC to determine what types of products they
could provide in West Jordan, and what a non-profit builder needs from a municipal partner to develop
moderate-income housing. On December 7, 2022 Lisa Elgin, and Chris Pengra met with representatives
of J Fisher Company on-site at a recently completed project in Midvale. They brought pictures back to
share with staff, including Larry Gardner, Scott Langford, Community Development Director, and Jamie
Davidson, Assistant City Manager. Several meetings were held between WJ City staff and JFC with one
more scheduled for July 25, 2023. At that time JFC will present to staff a presentation that has been
developed to provide information to elected officials regarding the details of process, funding and
management of low- and moderate-income housing. It is anticipated that soon after this meeting, JFC will
present to City of West Jordan City Council. This presentation will provide City Council with the
information necessary to determine their level of support for financing and building multi-family affordable
housing. A potential moderate-income housing project has been identified near the light-rail TRAX
Station at 2700 W Sugar Factory Road. JFC performed some early research and estimates to provide
low/mod housing on the site. Although JFC indicated the City donating the land is the most significant
piece of the capital stack the City could contribute, the site was too small, requiring too much podium
parking for a housing project to be feasible for them. They indicated that they typically look for sites in
Qualified Census Tracts which allows more tax credits to add to their capital stack. Potential funding
sources include RDA Affordable Housing Funds, CDBG, HOME,Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund, West
Jordan General Fund, and tax credits. G. Measure: Analysis of proposed land uses and utility constraints
with each MIH project. H. Measure: Analysis of proposed connectivity improvements. I. Measure:
Analysis of proposed MIH residential density of each MIH project. J. Apply for or partner with the
identified entity that applies for funding, programs or incentives. i. Benchmark: Complete measures g
through j by December 31, 2024. It was determined that utility constraints, lack of available partners and
the lack of available property have made this strategy unfeasible. This strategy will be replaced. K.
Measure: Concept plan and revisions. L. Measure: Entitlement. i. Benchmark: Complete k and l by July
31,2025. M. Measure: Preliminary plan completion and review. i. Benchmark: Complete by December 31,
2025 N. Measure: Final plan and revisions. i. Benchmark: approval by May 31, 2026. O. Measure:
Construction phase. i. Benchmark: Construction complete by December 31, 2028.



Strategy 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii) (T) Ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local political
subdivision for the purpose of combining resources to acquire property for moderate income
housing. Strategy Type one time. Analysis of Strategy: The City Council is desirous to explore


                                                                                                       1233
the possibility of partnering with either the school district or another partner to build moderate income
housing or partnering with another agency in purchasing property solely for moderate income housing.
Implementation Plan for this Strategy 1. Timeline: Ratify partnership and acquisition agreement by
December 31,2025. A. Measure: Identify potential Moderate Income Housing locations. B. Measure:
Identify potential funding sources. C. Measure: Identify and interview potential partners. i. Benchmark:
Complete Measure a, b and c by October 31, 2023. D. Measure: Determine partners. E. Measure:
Determine city involvement in MIH project. F. Measure: Determine funding sources. i. Benchmark:
Complete Measure d through f by July 31, 2024. G. Measure:Analysis of proposed land uses and utility
constraints with each MIH project. H. Measure: Analysis of proposed connectivity improvements. I.
Measure:Analysis of proposed MIH residential density of each MIH project. J. Measure: Work with
appropriate city departments and complete a comprehensive legal analysis of all required contracts,
purchase agreements and other documents. K. Measure: Determine all relevant 2009 City Code
sections that require amendment. i. Benchmark: Complete measures g through k by May 31, 2025.
Originally, we were looking into properties that have code enforcement issues that the City could
potentially purchase and build MIH. However, we have shifted to either property the City already owns
or where the City has already been in contact with property owners. The following properties have
been explored: 1431, 1423, 1415, 1407 W Bridgeport Way: The City already owns these properties.
However, 7000 South is master planned to widen to a 106-foot cross section (although the exact width
is undetermined until an Environmental Impact Study is performed). There will also be a pedestrian
bridge built across 7000 South that will encroach on these properties. After these improvements, it is
unlikely that houses built here will be able to meet setback requirements. 1439, 1449, 1459, 1469,
1477,1485 W Bridgeport Way: Four out of six of the owners of these lots have expressed a willingness
to sell to the City, and the City already owns 1469 W Bridgeport Way. These lots would also be
reduced in size due to the widening of 7000 South, and it would need to be confirmed that the lots
could still meet setback requirements after their reduction in size. 8490 & 8516 South 2700 West: The
owners of these properties have previously expressed a possible willingness to sell to the City.
However, the West Jordan City Manager has expressed these properties should be left off the MIH
plan right now.4654 West 7800 South: This property was donated to the City with a Parks & Recreation
restriction in the contract. Therefore, currently the City could only use this property for Parks &
Recreation purposes. However, there could be an option for the City to release the property back to the
previous owner with a MIH restriction to ensure the property could only be used for MIH. The City
Manager has also expressed that this property should be left off the MIH plan for now. b. Measure:
Identify potential funding sources. Funding: Two potential funding sources we have identified are the
West Jordan Redevelopment Agency’s affordable housing fund, and the Salt Lake County HOME
consortium. Redevelopment Agency: These funds can be used fort he acquisition, construction, or
rehab of housing within Salt Lake County, and the fund currently has a balance of $476,938.98,
although this amount changes every year. This balance is only current for 2024 and is subject to
change. HOME: The Salt Lake County HOME consortium receives the City’sshare of HOME funds and
can be used for construction or rehab of income targeted housing within the County. The application
period for these funds is typically from late January to mid-February every year and is extremely
competitive. Single-family projects may be unlikely to be funded as multi-family projects are far more
cost efficient, but this could possibly represent a potential source of funding. c. Measure: Identify and
interview potential partners. i. Benchmark: Complete Measure a, b and c by October 31, 2023. d.
Measure: Determine partners. Partners: In December 2023, we attended a meeting with the Jordan
Academy for Technology and Careers (JATC) which is a Career and Technical Education (CTE) school
through the Jordan School District(JSD). JATC is restarting a Construction Management program, and
this meeting was attended by professionals in the construction field to advise on curriculum
development for the new program. We originally had the idea that West Jordan City could potentially
partner with JATC and have their Construction Management students build MIH on land in the City. In
this meeting, we learned that the high school students are likely only equipped to build smaller projects
such as tiny homes rather than typical single-family homes.
                                                                                                            1234
Therefore, partnering with JATC would likely only be plausible if theCity is interested in a tiny home project.
There is a question of if JSD would be able to contribute funds to acquire property, or if the City would need
to beable to provide the property for JATC to then build upon, and if this meets the criteria of the strategy.
From this meeting with JATC, we learned of theSLCC and UVU Construction Management programs. The
following people have been contacted from each: SLCC: Dave James, Associate Dean,Apprenticeship and
Construction Related Technologies. Has responded and would be open to discussing a partnership. UVU:
Robert Warcup,Department Chair – Construction Technologies. Has not yet responded. Tracy Eubanks,
Admin. Support III – Construction Technologies. Has not yetresponded. These higher education programs
may be more equipped to build single-family homes as opposed to high school students. Additionally,
wehave reached out to Meggie Troili who oversees Midvale City’s MIH plan, and although they did not
choose Strategy T as one of their strategies, shewould be open to further discussing a potential partnership.
e. Measure: Determine city involvement in MIH project. f. Measure: Determine fundingsources. City
Involvement: City Involvement at this time has not been determined. L. Measure: Complete all required code
amendments and all requiredlegal documents. M. Present to City Council and hold required public hearings.
i. Benchmark: Ratify partnership with another local political subdivision forthe purpose of combining
resources to acquire property for moderate income housing by December 31, 2025. It has been determined
that this strategy isnot feasible due to lack of partners and this strategy has been replaced.

V
Strategy 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii) (V) Develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with Section
10-9a-403.1. Strategy type ongoing. Analysis of Strategy: This is a requirement of state law because West
Jordan has six TRAX stations. Planning has been done in the past in all station areas and the new plans will
update and identify needed changes. Implementation Plan for this Strategy 1. Timeline: Adopt four station
area plans by December 31, 2025.          A. Measure: Identify the four station areas to be planned.         1.
Task: Apply for Technical Assistance by July 15, 2022        B. Measure: Complete existing conditions
analysis of the four station areas.      i. Benchmark: Complete Measure a and b by August 31, 2022.
C. Measure: Identify stakeholders.           1. Task: Identify stakeholders by July 1, 2022      D. Interview
Stakeholders.           1. Task: Interview stakeholders by December 31, 2022          E. Meet with adjacent
jurisdictions.        1. Task: Meet with adjacent jurisdictions by August 1, 2022        F. Hold public
meetings.         i. Benchmark: Complete measures c through f by December 31, 2023.             G. Measure:
Analysis of proposed land uses in each station area. H. Measure: Analysis of proposed connectivity
improvements. I. Measure: Analysis of proposed residential density in each station area, including moderate
income housing. Benchmark: Complete measures g through i by July 31, 2024. J. Measure: Concept plan
and revisions. i. Benchmark: Complete measure j by December 31, 2024. K. Measure: Preliminary plan
completion and review. i. Benchmark: Complete by July 31, 2025 L. Measure: Final plan and revisions.
Benchmark adopt by December 31, 2025.


3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the
strategy.
A
i. Benchmark: Complete measure g by July 31, 2024 October 31, 2025. (Strategy amended by West Jordan
City Council adopting Ordinance 25-24 on June 10, 2025. Ordinance
Attached)(Land use map amended by West Jordan City Council adopting Ordinance 25-26 on June 24,
2025. Ordinance Attached)      H. Measure: Determine if master development agreement (MDA) is required
prior to rezone to IOZ.




                                                                                                       1235
I. Measure: Identify components of MDA. i. Benchmark: Complete measure h and i by December 31,
2024 October 31, 2025.(Master Development Agreement approved by West Jordan City Council
adopting Ordinance 25-25 on June 24, 2025. Ordinance Attached) J. Measure: Start process to rezone
areas to IOZ. K. Hold Planning Commission public hearing(s). L. Hold City Council public hearing(s). i.
Benchmark: Complete by July 31, 2025(Zoning Map amended by West Jordan City Council adopting
Ordinance 25-25 on June 24, 2025. Ordinance Attached) M. Measure: Final revisions. i. Benchmark
adopt by December 31, 2025. N. Measure: Record plat for first IOZ development. i. Benchmark: June 1,
2026(Strategy amended by West Jordan City Council adopting Ordinance 25-24 on June 10, 2025.
Ordinance Attached)




B
Strategy 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii) (B) Demonstrate investment in the rehabilitation or expansion of
infrastructure that facilitates the construction of moderate income housing. Strategy type on-
going.Analysis of Strategy: West Jordan City is actively expanding its water and sewer infrastructure.
Two new water reservoirs will serve Dry Creek and the housing associated with the Southwest
Quadrant. Dry Creek Highlands has a master development agreement that requires between 5% and
10% of the unit count to be moderate income housing. A component of the Southwest quadrant will be
for “workforce” housing, housing that will be in the moderate income range. Both development areas are
in the beginning phases of construction in 2022 and will be under development for the next twenty plus
years. The investment in new water and sewer infrastructure will serve the moderate income component
of both developments for the foreseeable future.Implementation Plan for this Strategy 1. Timeline:
Demonstrate nexus by July 31, 2024.             i. Benchmark: If feasible, establish nexus and potential
rehabilitation of and/or the creation of MIH by July 31, 2024.As a local municipality, the City of West
Jordan is responsible for constructing and maintaining infrastructure for water (culinary and secondary),
sewer, storm water and roads. This infrastructure forms a city-wide network that services all forms of
residential housing, including moderate-income housing. Due to the regionally interconnected and
interdependent nature of these systems and the myriad of land uses that they service, it is difficult to
associate a particular part of the system with a specific type of land use such as moderate income
housing. However, the City has identified specific infrastructure projects within the boundaries of the
Jones Ranch planned community, Terrane planned community and the Southwest Quadrant that will
service both moderate income housing and other land uses. These projects involve water, sewer, storm
water, and road infrastructure improvements.a.Measure: Identify areas where infrastructure
improvements will result in preservation of and/or the creation of MIH.How decision supports
implementation of MIH. Despite the inherent difficulty in identifying specific infrastructure improvements
that will affect moderate income housing specifically, the City of West Jordan has identified 3 large areas
that will have the greatest potential for moderate income housing. These areas include Jones Ranch, a
planned community on the west end of the city comprising 592 acres, and the Southwest Quadrant,
which is a 959-acre area designated for a mix of industrial, commercial and residential land uses and
Terraine a mix use community 675 acres in are at the northwest portion of West Jordan. All of these
areas are required to have a percentage between 5% and 10% moderate income housing. This is
agreed to and enforced by development agreements. All of these areas are on the west side of the city
where water infrastructure is currently lacking, but actively being developed, the exception is Terraine
where water and sewer are adequate and are provided by Kearns Improvement.West Jordan City water
Pressure Zones 5, 6 and 7 cover both Jones Ranch and the SWQ areas and are poised to be improved
with 5 water tanks, 4 booster stations, and several miles worth of transmission line, as designated by the
2022 West Jrdan City Water Master Plan. These are City-initiated capital improvement projects and do
not include planned transmission lines within Jones Ranch that will be constructed by the developer.
Many of the main lines in the Southwest Quadrant are planned transmission lines
                                                                                                         1236
also and will be installed by future developers.All of the City-initiated sewer capital improvement
projects are located outside of the Jones Ranch and Southwest Quadrant areas per the 2019
Sewer Master Plan. While new network of 10” and 12” main lines are planned in these areas,
these lines will be constructed by future developers as these areas develop.The 2023
Stormwater Master Plan has planned for 2 regional detention basins within Jones Ranch, along
with a main line along 9000 South and a few culverts along Barney’s Creek. The Southwest
Quadrant is planned to have a new main line sections along State Highway U-111, 9400 South
and 6800 West. A few culverts are also planned for Barney’s Wash.Some of the planned roads
within Jones Ranch are already under construction, namely the extensions of 8600 South and
9000 South out to State Highway U-111. 9000 South will eventually extend beyond U-111 to the
city’s western boundary, and 7200 South will be extended south to the future 9000 South
extension. Other improvements in Jones Ranch include 2 signal intersections on 9000 South, 2
signal intersections on U-111, and 3 new roundabouts.Within the Southwest Quadrant, 2 new
signal intersections will be built on New Bingham Highway and new collector roads at 8000
West and 9400 South. State Highway U-111 is also planned to be widened to 5 lanes, from the
north border of the city to New Bingham Highway.b.Measure: Determine cost of infrastructure
improvements.The city-initiated stormwater and road improvements within Jones Ranch will
total $57,622,000. All sewer improvements within Jones Ranch will be installed by the
developer, so there is no City funding for such improvements. The water improvements will
affect both Jones Ranch, the Southwest Quadrant and, by extension, the entire city as a whole,
and total $75,991,000. Some of the road improvements also benefit both regions, which total
$71,970,000. Again, these costs reflect city-initiated capital improvement projects and do not
include planned infrastructure to be constructed within future developments.i.Benchmark:
Complete Measure a, b and c by July 31, 2023.c.Measure: If feasible, identify potential
preservation of or creation of MIH because of infrastructure investment.Market response. The
previously discussed master planned water, sewer, storm water and road system improvements
will be constructed within the boundaries of Jones Ranch, Terraine and the Southwest Quadrant
while the improvements will service not only these developments but to the entire city-wide
utility network the improvements will also result in the development of moderate income units. At
present Jones Ranch and Terraine are required, based on a development agreement, to
construct between 5% and 10% moderate income housing throughout the development. The
maximum units that can be constructed in Jones Ranch is 2940 units therefore the range is
between 147 and 294 units of moderate income housing. Jones Ranch has commenced
construction, and 170 building permits have been issued with 4 units being in the moderate
income range. Neither Jones Ranch as a whole nor the moderate income hosing would be
constructed without investment in critical infrastructure. The Southwest Quadrant and Terraine
will follow the same Jones Ranch model as this development area becomes entitled. It is
anticipated that for both areas discussed several hundred moderate income units will be
constructed all because of investment in critical infrastructure. d.Measure: Establish nexus
between investment in infrastructure and creation of MIH.The link between critical infrastructure
investment and development of moderate income housing is undeniable. Yes, market rate
housing will also be constructed but because of awareness on the need for moderate income
housing, careful planning and decision making by the city council and the funding of
infrastructure hundreds of units of housing in the moderate income range will also be




                                                                                               1237
constructed in Jones Ranch and the Southwest Quadrant. i.Benchmark: If feasible establish
nexus and potential rehabilitation of and/or the creation of MIH by July 31, 2024.

F
i. Benchmark: Complete measure g by July 31, 2024. Land use map amendment approved by
Ordinance 24- 55 on December 4, 2024. Ordinance 24-55 attached.             H. Measure:
Determine if master development agreement (MDA) is required prior to rezone to ROD.         I.
Measure: Identify components of MDA.          i. Benchmark: Complete measure h and i by
December 31, 2024.It has been determined that development on the property will require a
master development agreement because of utility constraints and because development in the
Residential Overlay District requires an MDA. However, discussion points for the MDA could
not be determined because the property owner is no longer interested in developing the site.
This strategy is being replaced as described in Ordinance 25-24 which is attached.       J.
Measure: Start process to rezone areas to ROD.        K. Hold Planning Commission public
hearing(s).     L. Hold City Council public hearing(s).      i. Benchmark: Complete measures
j through l by July 31, 2025    M. Measure: Final revisions.        i. Benchmark adopt by
December 31, 2025.West Jordan City will not be rezoning the property because the property
owner is no longer interested in developing the site. This strategy is being replaced as
described in Ordinance 25-24 which is attached.

J
It was determined that a mater development agreement is required and was adopted with
Ordinance 24-23. Attached       K. Measure: Start process to rezone areas to IHD.  L. Hold
Planning Commission public hearing(s).Planning Commission public hearing was held on April
16, 2024.      M. Hold City Council public hearing(s).     i. Benchmark: Complete measures
k through m by July 31, 2024City Council Public Hearing was held on May 22, 2024.   N.
Measure: Final revisions.      i. Benchmark adopt by December 31, 2024.Integrated housing
ordinance was approved for the property on July 31, 2024 by Ordinance 24-24. Attached.
1.Timeline: Implement Integrated Housing Ordinance (IHD) approved in 2024. a.Measure:
Approve First IHD Plati.Benchmark: Complete measure by October 31st 2025b.Measure: Build
first ten income-restricted Moderate Income Dwelling Uniti.Benchmark: Complete measure by
December 31, 2026

M
H. Measure: Final revisions.i.Benchmark if feasible adopt by July 31, 2023.West Jordan has
determined that this strategy is not a feasible at this time. A new strategy will be adopted prior to
the 2025 reporting period. i. Benchmark if feasible adopt by July 31, 2024.It has been
determined that this strategy is not feasible based on lack of willing CLT partners.

O
i. Benchmark: Complete measures g through j by December 31, 2024.It was determined that
utility constraints, lack of available partners and the lack of available property have made this
strategy unfeasible. This strategy will be replaced.




                                                                                                 1238
T
i. Benchmark: Ratify partnership with another local political subdivision for the purpose of
combining resources to acquire property for moderate income housing by December 31, 2025.It
has been determined that this strategy is not feasible due to lack of partners and this strategy
has been replaced.

V
Strategy 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii) (V) Develop and adopt a station area plan in accordance with
Section 10-9a-403.1. Strategy type ongoing.Analysis of Strategy: This is a requirement of state
law because West Jordan has six TRAX stations. Planning has been done in the past in all
station areas and the new plans will update and identify needed changes.Implementation Plan
for this Strategy1.Timeline: Adopt four station area plans by December 31, 2025.a.The City of
West Jordan has adopted Four (4) Station Area Plansi.Bingham Junction Station (3 Station
Plan)ii.Gardner Station (3 Station Plan)iii.West Jordan City Center (3 Station Plan)iv.5600 West
Old Bingham Highway (5600 West Old Bingham Highway SAP)                A. Measure: Identify the
four station areas to be planned.          1. Task: Apply for Technical Assistance by July 15,
2022      B. Measure: Complete existing conditions analysis of the four station areas.         i.
Benchmark: Complete Measure a and b by August 31, 2022.             C. Measure: Identify
stakeholders.          1. Task: Identify stakeholders by July 1, 2022      D. Interview
Stakeholders.          1. Task: Interview stakeholders by December 31, 2022          E. Meet with
adjacent jurisdictions.         1. Task: Meet with adjacent jurisdictions by August 1, 2022       F.
Hold public meetings.        i. Benchmark: Complete measures c through f by December 31,
2023.      G. Measure: Analysis of proposed land uses in each station area.         H. Measure:
Analysis of proposed connectivity improvements.        I. Measure: Analysis of proposed
residential density in each station area, including moderate income housing.•5600 West Old
Bingham Highway has a proposed unit count of 3,000 Dwelling Units •Historic Gardner Station
has a goal of 10% affordable housing and 27 du/ac for the residential portion of the SAP•West
Jordan City Center also has a 10% affordable housing goal and with densities up to 60 DU/AC it
is a candidate for HTRZ funding•Bingham Junction has a goal of 20% affordable housing with a
35 DU/AC densityi.Benchmark: Complete measures g through i by July 31, 2024.a.Proposed
land uses in the station area plans are as follows:i.5600 West Old Bingham Highway1.315,000
SF Retail2.1,300,000 SF Office3.600,000 SF Entertainment4.Hospitality: 1,200
Rooms5.Industrial: 100,000 SF6.Residential: 3,000 DUii.Bingham Junction 1.73 Dwelling Units
(new, area is already heavily residential)2.77,000 SF of Commercial Area3.336,000 SF
Officeiii.Historic Gardner Station1.778 Multifamily Dwellings2.139 Single-family
Dwellings3.5,000 SF Institutional Usesiv.West Jordan City Center Station1.2,000 Dwelling
Units2.566,000 SF Commercial Uses3.2,100,000 SF Office Uses4.Hospitality: 150
Rooms5.116,000 SF Entertainment and Parksb.All four station area plans look at increasing
connectivity in the Station Areas. i.Bingham Junction ii.Historic Gardner iii.West Jordan City
Center iv.5600 West Old Bingham Highway c.In addition to the four complete station area plans,
the City has recently been awarded TAP funds and has selected a design consultant to assist
with the preparation of station area plans for:i.Jordan Valley Stationii.Sugar Factory Road
Stationd.The city is targeting adoption of these two stations in Early 2026     J. Measure:
Concept plan and revisions.         i. Benchmark: Complete measure j by December 31,




                                                                                                1239
2024.Complete, Station Area Plans have been completed for 4 stations, 2 additional stations
are now underway         K. Measure: Preliminary plan completion and review.      i.
Benchmark: Complete by July 31, 2025Complete, Station Area Plans have been completed for
4 stations, 2 additional stations are now underway     L. Measure: Final plan and revisions.
Benchmark adopt by December 31, 2025.Complete, Station Area Plans have been completed
for 4 stations, 2 additional stations are now underway




4.       Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy.
A
i. Benchmark: Complete measure g by July 31, 2024 October 31, 2025. (Strategy amended by
West Jordan City Council adopting Ordinance 25-24 on June 10, 2025. Ordinance
Attached)(Land use map amended by West Jordan City Council adopting Ordinance 25-26 on
June 24, 2025. Ordinance Attached)      H. Measure: Determine if master development
agreement (MDA) is required prior to rezone to IOZ.    I. Measure: Identify components of
MDA.i.Benchmark: Complete measure h and i by December 31, 2024 October 31, 2025.(Master
Development Agreement approved by West Jordan City Council adopting Ordinance 25-25 on
June 24, 2025. Ordinance Attached)      J. Measure: Start process to rezone areas to IOZ.
K. Hold Planning Commission public hearing(s).      L. Hold City Council public hearing(s).
i. Benchmark: Complete by July 31, 2025(Zoning Map amended by West Jordan City Council
adopting Ordinance 25-25 on June 24, 2025. Ordinance Attached)        M. Measure: Final
revisions.      i. Benchmark adopt by December 31, 2025.       N. Measure: Record plat for
first IOZ development      i.Benchmark: June 1, 2026(Strategy amended by West Jordan City
Council adopting Ordinance 25-24 on June 10, 2025. Ordinance Attached)

B
None

F
i. Benchmark: Complete measure g by July 31, 2024. Land use map amendment approved by
Ordinance 24- 55 on December 4, 2024. Ordinance 24-55 attached.

J
It was determined that a mater development agreement is required and was adopted with
Ordinance 24-23. Attached      K. Measure: Start process to rezone areas to IHD.   L. Hold
Planning Commission public hearing(s).Planning Commission public hearing was held on April
16, 2024.     M. Hold City Council public hearing(s).     i. Benchmark: Complete measures
k through m by July 31, 2024City Council Public Hearing was held on May 22, 2024.   N.
Measure: Final revisions.     i. Benchmark adopt by December 31, 2024.Integrated housing
ordinance was approved for the property on July 31, 2024 by Ordinance 24-24. Attached.
1.Timeline: Implement Integrated Housing Ordinance (IHD) approved in 2024. a.Measure:




                                                                                         1240
Approve First IHD Plati.Benchmark: Complete measure by October 31st 2025b.Measure: Build
first ten income-restricted Moderate Income Dwelling Uniti.Benchmark: Complete measure by
December 31, 2026

M
None

O
None

T
None

V
1.Timeline: Adopt four station area plans by December 31, 2025.a.The City of West Jordan has
adopted Four (4) Station Area Plansi.Bingham Junction Station (3 Station Plan)ii.Gardner
Station (3 Station Plan)iii.West Jordan City Center (3 Station Plan)iv.5600 West Old Bingham
Highway (5600 West Old Bingham Highway SAP)            A. Measure: Identify the four station
areas to be planned.          1. Task: Apply for Technical Assistance by July 15, 2022        B.
Measure: Complete existing conditions analysis of the four station areas.         i. Benchmark:
Complete Measure a and b by August 31, 2022.          C. Measure: Identify stakeholders.
1. Task: Identify stakeholders by July 1, 2022      D. Interview Stakeholders.            1. Task:
Interview stakeholders by December 31, 2022         E. Meet with adjacent jurisdictions.          1.
Task: Meet with adjacent jurisdictions by August 1, 2022      F. Hold public meetings.         i.
Benchmark: Complete measures c through f by December 31, 2023.              G. Measure: Analysis
of proposed land uses in each station area.      H. Measure: Analysis of proposed connectivity
improvements.        I. Measure: Analysis of proposed residential density in each station area,
including moderate income housing.•5600 West Old Bingham Highway has a proposed unit
count of 3,000 Dwelling Units •Historic Gardner Station has a goal of 10% affordable housing
and 27 du/ac for the residential portion of the SAP•West Jordan City Center also has a 10%
affordable housing goal and with densities up to 60 DU/AC it is a candidate for HTRZ
funding•Bingham Junction has a goal of 20% affordable housing with a 35 DU/AC
densityi.Benchmark: Complete measures g through i by July 31, 2024.a.Proposed land uses in
the station area plans are as follows:i.5600 West Old Bingham Highway1.315,000 SF
Retail2.1,300,000 SF Office3.600,000 SF Entertainment4.Hospitality: 1,200 Rooms5.Industrial:
100,000 SF6.Residential: 3,000 DUii.Bingham Junction 1.73 Dwelling Units (new, area is
already heavily residential)2.77,000 SF of Commercial Area3.336,000 SF Officeiii.Historic
Gardner Station1.778 Multifamily Dwellings2.139 Single-family Dwellings3.5,000 SF Institutional
Usesiv.West Jordan City Center Station1.2,000 Dwelling Units2.566,000 SF Commercial
Uses3.2,100,000 SF Office Uses4.Hospitality: 150 Rooms5.116,000 SF Entertainment and
Parksb.All four station area plans look at increasing connectivity in the Station Areas. i.Bingham
Junction ii.Historic Gardner iii.West Jordan City Center iv.5600 West Old Bingham Highway c.In
addition to the four complete station area plans, the City has recently been awarded TAP funds
and has selected a design consultant to assist with the preparation of station area plans




                                                                                                1241
for:i.Jordan Valley Stationii.Sugar Factory Road Stationd.The city is targeting adoption of these
two stations in Early 2026      J. Measure: Concept plan and revisions.         i. Benchmark:
Complete measure j by December 31, 2024.Complete, Station Area Plans have been
completed for 4 stations, 2 additional stations are now underway       K. Measure: Preliminary
plan completion and review.         i. Benchmark: Complete by July 31, 2025Complete, Station
Area Plans have been completed for 4 stations, 2 additional stations are now underway         L.
Measure: Final plan and revisions. Benchmark adopt by December 31, 2025.Complete, Station
Area Plans have been completed for 4 stations, 2 additional stations are now underway




5.      What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers
were experienced, write "None."
A
None

B
Cost of infrastructure.

F
No developer.

J
None

M
It has been determined that this strategy is not feasible based on lack of willing CLT partners.

O
It was determined that utility constraints, lack of available partners and the lack of available
property have made this strategy unfeasible. This strategy will be replaced.

T
It has been determined that this strategy is not feasible due to lack of partners and this strategy
has been replaced.

V
None




                                                                                                   1242
6.      Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy
(e.g., units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.).
A
No change.

B
Unknown

F
No change.

J
Unknown.

M
No change

O
No change.

T
No change.

V
No change




7.     Links to supporting documentation (Optional)

A

B

F

J

M

O




                                                                                              1243
T

V


      Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional)

A
F_332oUr3gCLc9IWC
ORDINA~1.PDF
29391861
application/pdf

B

F
F_2tstye669UhtMkr
Ordinance No. 25-24 Amd to GP-2025 Moderate Income Housing - signed.pdf
1569092
application/pdf

J
F_3s0rrXtustfjxif
Ordinance No. 24-24 Oneleven GPLUM Amd - signed.pdf
5354246
application/pdf

M

O

T

V
F_3QMoDkaMRFmaNIA
WFRC Certification Resolution 5600 W.pdf
348759
application/pdf




                                                                          1244
FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply)
Housing supply data,Housing needs data,Planning technical assistance,Model
ordinances.,Case studies for strategies,Reporting technical assistance,Guidebooks for planning
and reporting

Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A)



If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following:
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your
community a written certification of compliance.
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov.
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10).


Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report.




                                                                                                  1245
