> Source: (not recorded — see minutes_index.csv)
> Meeting date: 2020-05-28
> Format: ocr

---

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 1 
The City Council met in Work Session on Thursday, May 28, 2020, in 
an Electronic Meeting, pursuant to Salt Lake City Emergency 
Proclamation No. 2 of 2020(2)(b). 
 Attendance: Council Members Chris Wharton, Analia Valdemoros, 
Daniel Dugan, Andrew Johnston, Amy Fowler, James Rogers, and Darin 
Mano. 
 Staff in Attendance: Cindy Gust-Jenson, Council Executive 
Director; Erin Mendenhall, Mayor; Jennifer Bruno, Council 
Executive Deputy Director; Russell Weeks, Council Senior Advisor; 
John Vuyk, Budget Director; Marcia White, Public Services 
Director; Allison Rowland, Council Public Policy Analyst; Sam 
Owen, Council Public Policy Analyst; Benjamin Luedtke, Council 
Public Policy Analyst; Mary Beth Thompson, Chief Financial 
Officer; Laura Briefer, Public Utilities Director; Lisa McCarver, 
Finance Revenue & Collections Director; Lisa Shaffer, Mayor’s 
Deputy Chief of Staff; Jennifer McGrath, Community & Neighborhoods 
Deputy Director; Nole Walkingshaw, Public Services Deputy 
Director; Matt Kammeyer, Golf Division Director; Jonathan 
Pappasideris, Senior City Attorney; Katherine Lewis, City 
Attorney; David Salazar, Human Resource Program Manager; Jaysen 
Oldroyd, Senior City Attorney; Mark Kittrell, Deputy City 
Attorney; Megan DePaulis, Senior City Attorney; Lehua Weaver, 
Council Associate Deputy Director; Daniel Rip, Housing & 
Neighborhood Development Policy & Program Manager; Kristin Riker, 
Public Lands Deputy Director; Lorna Vogt, Public Services Deputy 
Director; Robert Nutzman, Council Administrative Assistant; Cindy 
Lou Trishman, Council Office Policy Analyst; Rachel Otto, Mayor’s 
Chief of Staff; and Scott Crandall, Deputy City Recorder 
participated electronically. 
 Guests in Attendance: Blake Perez, Central Wasatch Commission 
Deputy Director (Item #2). 
 
 Councilmember Wharton presided at and conducted the meeting. 
 
The meeting was called to order at 2:07 p.m. 2:07:41 PM 
 AGENDA ITEMS 
 #1.2:09:33 PM (2:14) UPDATE FROM THE ADMINISTRATION ABOUT THE MAYOR’S EMERGENCY DECLARATIONS RELATING TO COVID-19 (CORONAVIRUS)

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 2 
AND THE MARCH 18TH EARTHQUAKE IN THE SALT LAKE VALLEY. As part of 
the update, the Council may discuss public health and other public 
safety, policy and budget issues stemming from the emergency 
declarations. The Council may also receive information or updates 
from organizations or experts related to the emergency responses 
and coordination, including but not limited to earthquake damage 
to City, the functioning of the Emergency Operations Center (EOC), 
City response and aid, and the status of City buildings. 
 
 No discussion was held. 
 #2.2:10:09 PM (2:43) BRIEFING REGARDING A PROPOSAL TO AMEND THE CENTRAL WASATCH INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT, INCLUDING THE ADMISSION OF THE TOWN OF BRIGHTON. The proposed amendment includes changes to 
criteria for membership, various structural changes to the 
commission, and to include the newly incorporated Town of Brighton, 
among other changes. The Central Wasatch Commission (CWC) is 
charged with implementing the Mountain Accord, and, in particular 
the major values of environment, recreation, transportation, and 
economy that are inherent in the Central Wasatch Mountains. The 
Mountain Accord was a several-year negotiation about the future of 
the Central Wasatch Mountains that was approved in 2017. View Attachment 
 Sam Owen provided an overview of the CWC, including: CWC being 
an interlocal agency charged with implementing the Mountain 
Accord, Salt Lake City among the commissions for founding partners 
(along with Sandy City, Salt Lake County, and Cottonwood Heights), 
commission proposing an amendment bringing the voting members of 
the board to nine (with the addition of the town of Brighton), the 
town of Alta, Millcreek, Park City and Summit County also currently 
have voting seats on the board, CWC having 4 full-time employees 
(FTEs)/one intern, fiscal year (FY) 2021 proposed expense budget 
was $702,000, revenue proposal for FY21 was $654,000 based on the 
May 1st proposed budget which had yet to be adopted. He added that 
the Council was set to take action on June 2, 2020. 
 Laura Briefer provided information regarding: stakeholders 
looking to find long-term solutions around transportation/ 
environmental protection/recreational use of the canyons and the 
economic benefits of those canyons, Mountain Accord required the 
need to form a government agency in order to implement the 
agreement of the accord (agency being formed in 2017), funding for

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 3 
CWC provided primarily through commission membership, Mayor Erin 
Mendenhall representing Salt Lake City on the CWC, and the town of 
Brighton being newly created and surrounded by the CWC study area. 
 Blake Perez provided information regarding: the addition of 
the town of Brighton to the CWC (as well as added ex officios) 
would assist with development/planning, clean-up of the membership 
was to occur with the elimination of the term “Wasatch Back” – new 
criteria being added to the agreement, Mayor Erin Mendenhall was 
currently serving as the treasurer and assisted with the approval 
for funding of recent projects through the Wasatch front, a 
Mountain Transportation Initiative was being developed that would 
connect to the regional transportation system (meeting the 
objectives and challenges within the mountains), and continuing to 
pursue the Recreational Conservation Area Act with congressional 
delegation and members from the Utah State Legislature. 
 
Councilmember Rogers requested clarification regarding 
upcoming amendments to add other cities in the future. Mr. Perez 
offered clarification regarding the ex officio status and said 
cities previously a part of the Mountain Accord may have interest 
in participating in the future, but noted it was not foreseen that 
within the next year any full-time additional members would be 
added. 
 #3.2:20:22 PM (12:55) BRIEFING REGARDING AN ORDINANCE THAT WOULD AMEND THE FINAL BUDGET OF SALT LAKE CITY, INCLUDING THE EMPLOYMENT STAFFING DOCUMENT, FOR FISCAL YEAR 2019-2020. Budget amendments 
happen several times each year to reflect adjustments to the City’s 
budgets, including proposed project additions and modifications. 
The proposed amendment includes $2 million to repair damage to 
City-owned buildings caused by the 5.7 earthquake series and $1.5 
million from the Volkswagen diesel emissions settlement to replace 
11 of the City’s diesel trucks, among other changes. (Budget 
Amendment No. 6). View Attachment 
 Benjamin Luedtke provided information regarding: public 
hearing was scheduled for June 2, 2020, Council scheduled to take 
action June 9, 2020, budget amendment contained 18 adjustments 
totaling $7.2 million in expenses requested by the Administration, 
a proposal to use money from the General Fund’s Fund Balance 
totaling $57,500 for eight new items, and updated revenue 
projections were $8.3 million less than projections in Budget

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 4 
Amendment No. 5 (received back in March). Lisa McCarver briefed the Council regarding revenue 
projections, including: Property Tax Actuals were at budget and 
expected to continue, the Sales & Use Tax was being monitored 
closely (projection was $1 million short of budget), Franchise 
Taxes continuing to be an issue as they were running below budget, 
Intergovernmental Revenue was showing under-budget, Interest 
income was running $900,000 under budget, Fines & Forfeiture area 
was experiencing significant downturn as a result of COVID-19, 
parking ticket/moving violation/Justice Court fines were down in 
revenue (parking meter collection was down with less travel and 
free parking because of the pandemic), Charges & Services area was 
down $613,000 due to recreational fees and special events not 
occurring, Miscellaneous Revenue category contained collections 
revenue and was down due to the moratorium (there was positive 
variance due to a payment received by The Leonardo), the Interfund 
Reimbursement area contained a positive variance as well due to 
the Fire Service reimbursement received from the Salt Lake City 
International Airport, transfers were slightly below budget based 
on transfers from Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) and the 
Arts Council (coming in lower than budget), and Sales & Use Tax – 
County Option was currently trending above budget. 
 
 Mary Beth Thompson briefed Council regarding: 2020 Fund 
Balance Projections, revenue and expenditure adjustments for all 
Budget Amendments, and revenue forecast change (currently at 
14.46%). 
 
Councilmember Wharton reviewed each of the titles for 
amendments in the budget, as follows: 
• Section A 
o Item A-1: Parks and Public Lands Office Expansion (CIP) in 
the amount of $338,310 
o Item A-2: Open Space Property Acquisition, Parks Impact 
Fees in the amount of $350,00 
o Item A-3: 911 Dispatch Center Cost Reimbursement from the 
General Fund in the amount of $72,331 
o Item A-4: Police Department Revenue and Expense for U.N. 
Conference from the General Fund in the amount of $94,249 
o Item A-5: Fire Department Cost Recovery from the General 
Fund in the amount of $20,000 
o Item A-6: Utah Communications Authority Donation in the

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 5 
amount of $328,598 
o Item A-7: Fairpark/Rose Park Family Learning Center from 
the General Fund in the amount of $57,500 and Fleet Fund 
in the amount of $55,000 
o Item A-8: Earthquake Damage Repair (CIP) in the amount of 
$2 million 
• Section D: Housekeeping 
o Item D-1: Move Economic Development Loan Fund Class 78 
(Accounting adjustment) (Housing and Other Loan Fund - 
$2,753,077) 
o Item D-2: Rooftop Solar Asset Donation (Refuse Fund - 
$486,962) 
o Item D-3: Gallivan Utah Center Owners Association (GUCOA) 
Cost Increase – (Donation Fund - $62,302) 
o Item D-4: GAAP Accounting for Key Security Lease for IMS 
(IMS Fund - $1,889,636) 
o Item D-5: Police Recognizing Revenue from Natural 
Resources Contract (General Fund - $115,000) 
o Item D-6: Police Recognizing Revenue from Salt Lake County 
Contract for COVID-19 Response in Parks (General Fund - 
$134,400) 
o Item D-7: Housing Stability Programs (Reallocation) 
(Housing Trust Fund - $1.1 million) 
 
 Cindy Gust-Jenson informed the Council regarding: the 
Administration proposal for funds to be repurposed for housing 
stability with part of the funds going to rental assistance 
(provided by community partners that had existing programs in 
place) and needed additional funds in order to come closer to 
meeting the need, $100,000 of the funds would go to rapid re-
housing for getting people out of the shelter and into housing 
(with the remaining going to a mortgage assistance program), and 
a proposal from the Administration to utilize the revolving housing 
loan fund (HTF) with multiple sources up for consideration, 
including: 
• Funding from the Community Land Trust (appropriated in 
2018/2019) of $500,000. 
• COVID-19 funding received from the federal government through 
the County (handled similarly to sales tax or property tax), 
specifically to help communities affected by the COVID-19 
crisis. 
• Use of the HTF Revolving Loan Program, expressing intent to 
replenish the program to full capacity when other funds were

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 6 
identified. 
• Utilize funds from the Judgement Levy (having ample funding 
for the program). Mayor Mendenhall noted that the need in the community was 
consistent with the policy, national data was being coupled with 
local data and assessed for the greatest need, and it was known 
that federal funds were on their way. 
 Rachel Otto said research was being conducted to determine 
how to immediately meet the needs of the community while the 
Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES) funding 
was being deployed, 49% of the City’s residents were employed 
within industries that were susceptible to layoffs (relaying the 
importance of this goal), and the need not decreasing with the 
first $5.8 million of federal funds, including: 
• Section E: Grants requiring no new staff resources 
(descriptions were included in the Administration’s 
transmittal) 
o Item E-1: Volkswagen Eligible Mitigation Action Funding 
Agreement – Misc. Grant in the amount of $1,554,615 
• Section G: Council Consent Agenda – Grant Awards 
o Item G-1: One Utah Child Care System, State of Utah 
Department of Workforce Services (DWFS) – (Misc. Grant 
$160,000) 
o Item G-2: Utah Department of Heritage & Arts, Division 
of State History, Certified Local Government (CLG) 
Program 2020-2021 – (Misc. Grant - $9,100) 
• Section I: Council Added Items 
o Item I-1: Release $150,000 from Holding Account for 2020 
Jurisdictions with Halfway House and Parole Violator 
Centers Grant 
 
Councilmember Fowler proposed a straw poll for Item D7 (Housing 
Stability Programs) requesting Council staff review alternative 
funding, by putting the $1.1 Million into the program proposed by 
the Administration, not using the Housing Trust Fund money, and 
have staff review the alternative funding sources. Council Members 
Johnston, Fowler, Valdemoros, Dugan, Rogers were in favor of the 
straw poll. Councilmembers Wharton and Mano requested additional 
clarification; particularly on replenishment of the funding. 
Councilmember Wharton closed the straw poll noting the majority 
preferred staff review alternatives.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 7 
 #4.3:31:12 PM (1:23:43) BRIEFING REGARDING THE PROPOSED GOLF FUND BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020-2021. View Attachment Allison Rowland provided budget figures within the Mayor’s 
recommended budget for 2021, noting they predated the pandemic, 
expenses for the Golf Fund were fixed, the recommended budget 
proposed the General Fund continue to fund at approximately the 
same amount it did last year, Finance had increased accounting 
transparency (including temporary support to the debt incurred as 
a result of the irrigation upgrade), and noted the Councils guiding 
policy principals are in the attachments. 
 Nole Walkingshaw shared most cities did not have an extensive 
public Golf system, no other system charged administrative fees to 
Golf, all but one was operating within a deficit, and described 
the Key Council Guiding Policy Principles for Golf Fund, as 
follows: 
• Neighborhood quality of life was enhanced by adjacent open 
space, regardless of use, and therefore should be protected. 
• Commercial development on open space should be avoided 
wherever possible, but more diverse opportunities were to be 
discussed. 
• Any re-purposing of golf courses should add value for the 
neighborhood and its residents, and benefit residents through 
high quality amenities. 
 Matt Kammeyer briefed the Council on FY19-FY20 data, 
including: over 1,000 acres of open space was currently maintained 
at seven courses, currently staffed with 34 full-time employees 
(FTEs) and roughly 200 part-time/seasonal employees to assist with 
maintenance, 13 free practice areas were available for members of 
the community (with leagues currently on hold with the hope to 
offer again soon), customer email database and a golf-app with 
over 16,000 downloads, COVID-19 responses included: golfers were 
booking and paying online (providing a safe environment and 
continuance of offering of amenities), May rounds and revenue 
surpassed original projection at this point (currently a 73% rate 
of online booking, helping with collection of customer data to 
communicate to and maintain customers), 13,000 customers had been 
added to the database since the beginning of the pandemic, golf 
carts were not available during the month of April, but were now 
available to single riders only, an increase of intervals between 
tee times showing an increase of the pace of play (seen favorable

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 8 
with customers). FY19-20 Key Implementations were reviewed, 
including: 
• As part of a multi-year plan to upgrade vital maintenance 
equipment at all courses, the Golf Division spent $214,112 in 
FY21 to purchase additional used equipment (usually lease-
return equipment from high-end private courses) 
• Completion of clubhouse bathroom renovations and shop 
improvements at all courses (2-year process). 
• Controller upgrade to Mountain Dell irrigation system. 
• Course superintendent re-assignment at five courses. 
• Secured new concessionaire contract at five courses. 
• Implemented new point-of-sale/reservation system. 
• Implemented new centralized retail purchase order and 
inventory tracking system. 
 
FY20-21 Key Implementations: 
• As part of a multi-year plan to upgrade vital maintenance 
equipment at all courses, the Golf Division would be using 
$264,317 in FY21 to purchase additional used equipment 
(usually lease-return equipment from high-end private 
courses). 
• Implementing online individual lesson scheduling and payment 
processing. 
• Purchasing new range ball dispensers ($106,900) at all 
driving ranges that accepted payment at dispenser and a full 
integration into point-of-sale software system eliminating 
use of range tokens and providing better compliance with 
COVID-19 safety guidelines (allowing safer range use during 
heightened risk phases). 
• Adjusting existing lesson policy to include new lesson 
initiatives and audit controls. 
• Introducing new “Game Pack” electronic punch pass programs at 
all courses. Councilmember Valdemoros requested information regarding 
budget from previous FY, the proposed budget, and how much money 
came from the General Fund. Ms. Rowland said the budget figure was 
$23,000 less than $8.5 million recommended for FY21, the 
reimbursement of fees paid by IMS was scheduled to be $200,000 for 
FY21, the reimbursement of other administrative fees paid to the 
General Fund was proposed to be $306,000 (up from FY20), the 
General Fund subsidy to the Golf Fund was proposed at $565,000

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 9 
(previously limited to two years), and total subsidies for FY21 
were $1.7 million (and debt could not be transferred out of the 
Golf Fund into the General Fund). 
 #5.4:36:15 PM (2:29:34) BRIEFING REGARDING THE PROPOSED NON-DEPARTMENTAL FUND BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020-2021, WHICH ACCOUNTS FOR TRANSFERS TO OTHER FUNDS, GRANTS AND OTHER SPECIAL REVENUE FUNDS THAT DO NOT BELONG TO PARTICULAR CITY DEPARTMENTS. View Attachment 
 Russell Weeks provided an introduction and detailed the 
following information: non-departmental overview could be found on 
pages E85-E90, the proposed budget was 1% more than the current FY 
(at $186 million the non-departmental budget was one of the 
largest), $83 million was allocated for General Fund items, the 
Municipal Contributions and Civic Support section contained 
proposed allocations for city memberships and financial support 
for non-profit organizations, the City Program Support section 
included approximately ten items that were the same amount as the 
current FY (including allocation for legal defenders, the Rape 
Recovery Center, and YWCA Family Justice wrap-around service), 
non-allocation of $200,000 to the department of Public Utilities 
was being considered in the next FY as well as non-allocation of 
$35,000 for the Jazz festival, a 40% increase in funding was 
proposed for Tracy Aviary, and inflationary increase for the Sugar 
House Park Authority at approximately $25,0000. 
 Councilmember Johnston requested more information about the 
inflationary increase for the Sugar House Park Authority and if 
this was scheduled to be reviewed again since the original request 
was submitted before the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. John Vuyk said that a request was received from the Sugar 
House Park Authority that mentioned the County had increased their 
contribution, so a request for an increase for the City came in as 
well and was set to be followed up with the County. 
 #6. TENTATIVE BREAK 
 #7.5:09:15 PM (2:38:21)BRIEFING REGARDING THE CITY'S CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (CIP) WHICH INVOLVES THE CONSTRUCTION, PURCHASE OR RENOVATION OF BUILDINGS, PARKS, STREETS OR OTHER PHYSICAL STRUCTURES. Generally, projects have a useful life of

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 10 
five or more years and cost $50,000 or more. The Council approves 
debt service and overall CIP funding in the annual budget process, 
while project-specific funding is approved by September 1 of the 
same year. View Attachment 
 Mayor Mendenhall presented and reviewed the 2019 CIP Process 
as well as the 2020 CIP Process, including: in 2019 there were 50 
City applications, 14 constituent applications, and $21,291,884 
funded, in 2020 there were 18 City applications, zero constituent 
applications, and $11,789,180 of available funds. She said issues 
had been identified with the current process and remedies being 
proposed at this time in conjunction with the Council were as 
follows: 
• Update the City’s 10-Year Capital Facilities Plan 
• Hiring of a new CIP manager to enforce and implement the 
improved process as well as manage/update the Impact Fees 
Facilities Plans (IFFP) 
• Create and codify Administrative Policy that aligned with 
Resolution 20 of 2017, facilitating a more efficient CIP Process 
• Identify a CIP model/structure and continue to implement into 
City’s process. 
• Create standardized format and spreadsheet for tracking CIP 
through the entire process. 
• Implement a working database to track and account for CIP 
projects, providing metrics for data analysis. 
• Develop a CIP process to run concurrent with and be submitted 
as part of the Mayor’s annual budget 
• Development of a more complete and equitable process to improve 
constituent driven requests which should follow the 10-Year CFP 
and/or an established community Master Plan. 
 Councilmember Wharton inquired when discussions about not 
including applications began and requested a copy of the letter 
sent out in December. 
 Marcia White said the process began in September and citizens 
were informed in December 2019. She noted this was discussed with 
the Council in October of 2019. 
 Councilmember Fowler inquired about the unmanageability of 
the CIP process, and requested clarification. Ms. White said there 
was no one in place to manage the application process (either the

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 11 
constituent applications or the internal applications). 
 
 Councilmember Johnston asked for clarification regarding the 
current open position and if there was a contingency plan in place 
to ensure the position was filled and requested a time frame on 
getting this resolved. Ms. White said there was Staff in place 
working on policies and tracking reporting systems closely. 
 #8.5:56:03 PM (3:24:21) BRIEFING REGARDING UNRESOLVED ISSUES RELATING TO THE PROPOSED BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020-2021. View Attachment Jennifer Bruno said the following issues needed to be 
resolved before the budget could be adopted: 
 
A. The Administration did not receive information from the County 
in time to budget for the Judgement Levy, the Council could 
not do a Judgment Levy any higher than what was authorized by 
the County, there was $1.3 million that could be levied in this 
category, and final property tax information would be available 
June 8, 2020. 
 
B. The Redevelopment Agency (RDA) was collecting tax increments 
through the North Temple Viaduct CDA and for many years the 
amount was small, but was still transferred to the General 
Fund, in the process of investigating how much money has been 
used to offset debt service, the General Fund had not used the 
money the way it was intended due to lack of automatic 
application of the money to the debt service, there was 
currently a balance of $1.7 million in the account that could 
only be used for debt service on the North Temple Viaduct 
bonds, the Council could use up to the total amount of the debt 
service in FY21 from the account (freeing up more money for 
CIP or General Fund), totaling $996,000, and should there be 
a decrease in the North Temple Viaduct bond it would end up 
leaving the General Fund responsible (leaving $700,000 in 
reserve). 
 
C. Capturing funds not expended or encumbered from FY19 or FY20 
in the Funding our Future line items (amount TBD) 
o The Administration was proposing to re-allocate unspent 
Funding our Future dollars from FY19 and FY20 as one-
time revenue to help balance the budget. 
o The Mayor’s recommended budget included an addition of

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 12 
$500,000 for the Community Land Trust, which would 
bring the total in this account to $1.25 million 
dollars. 
 
D. Budget & Policy direction for potential future CARES Act 
funding 
o The Council may wish to hold a policy discussion with 
the Administration about policy goals for potential 
future CARES Act funding, and if there were specific 
areas of the budget the Council would like to target. 
 Ms. Bruno also address options to discuss regarding 
expenses: 
 
 A. Fund that lapses to Fund Balance vs. capital accounts; 
discussions with the Administration on whether funds should lapse 
to Fund Balance or be treated like “capital” accounts (accumulating 
year to year), with the goal to increase visibility of all City 
funds to the Mayor and Council so all funding could be evaluated 
each year to maximize efficiencies. 
 
B. Attorney’s Office - Council Members expressed interest for 
the addition of staff; one option available was to restore the 
vacancy savings of $31,000, allowing for the hiring of an 
assistant, and costs were provided should the Council consider 
adding an FTE. 
 
C. Community and Neighborhoods – previous Council discussion 
on Community and Neighborhoods identified several follow-up items 
(one being funding for the Inn Between), with some needing to be 
addressed prior to budget adoption, and some needing more time. 
 
 D. Staff Notes: If the Administration did not elect to 
identify an option, Council Staff could be asked to identify an 
account within Housing & Neighborhood Development (HAND) that had 
remaining funds. 
 
 E. Transportation Funding from the County – Council Members 
indicated an interest in understanding how the specific projects 
proposed in this fund were selected and vetted, and how they would 
be implemented throughout the City on an equitable basis. 
 
F. Revolving Housing Trust Fund dollars for development – the

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 13 
Council indicated interest in formalizing all loan repayments from 
development or loans to the Housing Trust Fund be transferred to 
the RDA Housing Development Trust Fund for the purpose of 
developing affordable housing. 
 
G. Funding for Homelessness and Camp Cleanup – the Council 
may wish to discuss setting aside funding for either camp cleanup 
or larger homeless issues. The Administration indicated that 
shifting funds towards keeping people in housing was part of the 
City’s strategy in this process. 
 Ms. Bruno addressed Funding our Future Dollar adjustments: 
 H. 911 Communications Bureau – 32-hour work week program 
was not a part of the Mayor’s current proposed budget but could 
be recommended later. 
 
 I. Police Department – Additional Mobile Surveillance 
Cameras (one-time fund), additional Victim Advocate position, 
and additional funding for overtime. 
 
 J. Public Services – A desire to increase funding for 
maintenance was expressed. Gallivan Staff concerns were 
addressed as well. 
 Other Fund Unresolved Issues: 
o Public Utilities (moved to a different discussion) 
o Contingent Appropriation Ideas (Attachment 3), with a 
review of contingent appropriation to occur. 
o Legislative Intents - Council Staff tracking potential 
legislative intents and will be provided in an upcoming 
briefing. STANDING ITEMS #9. REPORT OF THE CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR. Item not held. #10. REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, INCLUDING A REVIEW OF COUNCIL INFORMATION ITEMS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS. The Council may give 
feedback or staff direction on any item related to City Council 
business, including but not limited to scheduling items.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 14 
 Item not held. 
 #11.6:58:00 PM CONSIDER A MOTION TO ENTER INTO CLOSED SESSION, IN KEEPING WITH UTAH CODE §52-4-205 FOR ANY ALLOWED PURPOSE. 
 
Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Johnston 
seconded to enter into Closed Session to discuss the purchase, 
exchange, or lease of real property pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-
205(l)(d), collective bargaining pursuant to Utah Code §52 -4-
205(1)(b), and advice of Counsel pursuant to Utah Code §78B-1-137, 
and for other lawful purposes that satisfy the pertinent 
requirements of the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act. A roll call 
vote was taken. Council Members Johnston, Wharton, Valdemoros, 
Rogers, Fowler, Dugan, and Mano voted aye. See File M 20-1 for 
Sworn Statement. Attendance: Council Members Johnston, Wharton, Valdemoros, Rogers, 
Fowler, Mano, and Dugan. 
 Others in Attendance: Cindy Gust-Jenson, Benjamin Luedtke, 
Katherine Lewis, Jennifer Bruno, Lisa Shaffer, Rachel Otto, David 
Salazar, Jaysen Oldroyd, Marcia White, John Vuyk, Jonathan 
Pappasideris, Mark Kittrell, Lehua Weaver, Allison Rowland, Mary 
Beth Thompson, Daniel Rip, Kristin Riker, Lorna Vogt, Megan 
DePaulis, Robert Nutzman, Jennifer McGrath, and Scott Crandall. 
 
The Work Session adjourned at 6:59 p.m. 
 
 The Closed Session meeting adjourned at 7:42 p.m. 
 
Minutes Approved: Tuesday, March 16, 2021 
 
 
_______________________________ 
COUNCIL CHAIR 
 
 
_______________________________ 
CITY RECORDER 
 
 This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript 
as other items may have been discussed; please refer to the audio 
or video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203(2)(b). 
Chris Wharton (Mar 30, 2021 19:53 MDT)
Cindy Trishman (Mar 30, 2021 21:59 MDT)

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING THURSDAY, MAY 28, 2020 
 
 
 20 - 15 
 
 This document along with the digital recording constitute the 
official minutes of the City Council Work Session meeting held May 
28, 2020. 
 
sc/kt

05-28-20 Work Session Meeting Minutes
(approved 03-16-21)
Final Audit Report 2021-03-31
Created:2021-03-18
By:Kory Solorio (kory.solorio@slcgov.com)
Status:Signed
Transaction ID:CBJCHBCAABAAWr9nNmLOebl4aR9ewnLapr3g-sctwi-z
"05-28-20 Work Session Meeting Minutes (approved 03-16-21)" 
History
Document created by Kory Solorio (kory.solorio@slcgov.com)
2021-03-18 - 5:38:15 PM GMT- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document emailed to Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-03-18 - 5:39:27 PM GMT
Email viewed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
2021-03-31 - 1:53:11 AM GMT- IP address: 73.63.28.254
Document e-signed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-03-31 - 1:53:19 AM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 73.63.28.254
Document emailed to Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-03-31 - 1:53:21 AM GMT
Email viewed by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
2021-03-31 - 3:58:44 AM GMT- IP address: 136.60.227.10
Document e-signed by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-03-31 - 3:59:42 AM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 136.60.227.10
Agreement completed.
2021-03-31 - 3:59:42 AM GMT
