SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 951

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 7, MODERATE INCOME HOUSING OF THE EASTERN SUMMIT
COUNTY GENERAL PLAN

PREAMBLE

WHEREAS, Utah Code Annotated (“UCA”) § 17-27a-401. Requires that each county.prepare and
adopt a comprehensive, long-range general plan: for present and future needs of the county and for
growth and development of all or any part of the land within the unincorporated portions of the
county.

WHEREAS, during the 2022 legislative session, the Utah State Legislature adopted amendments to
(“UCA”) § 17-27a-401 that requires Summit County to adopt a moderate-income housing element
that provides a realistic opportunity to meet the need for additional moderate-income housing
within the next five years, selects three or more moderate income housing strategies for
implementation and includes an implementation plan for each strategy; and

WHEREAS these amendments to the General Plan must be completed by October 1, 2022, or the
County could lose important funding for transportation and other projects, and,

WHEREAS, providing reasonably priced housing for Summit County residents that is near.their_._
workplaces will reduce drive times, reduce traffic, and cut energy use and pollution; and,

WHEREAS, providing affordable housing within our community will promote economic and social
diversity within our communities that will provide for the needs of all residents, and create a

vibrant, diverse group of residents; and,

WHEREAS providing affordable housing will give local businesses easier access to workers and
ensure that working families remain in our community; and

WHEREAS the Eastern Summit County Planning Commission held a public hearing and
recommended adoption of the amended sections of the Eastern Summit County Development Code
on August 18, 2022; and

WHEREAS the Summit County Council held a public hearing on September 19, 2022; and,

NOW, THEREFORE, the County Council of the County of Summit, State of Utah, ordains as follows:

Section 1. The Eastern Summit County General Plan is amended as depicted in Exhibit A.

Section 2. Effective Date: This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after publication.


Enacted this 19th day of September 2022,

COUNTY COUNCIL
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH

Chris Robinson, Chair

Councilmember Robinson voted
Councilmember Clyde voted
Councilmember Armstrong voted
Councilmember Wright voted
Councilmember Stevens voted

ATTEST:

Aye
Absent
Aye
Aye
Aye

«

Evelyn Furse, County Clerk, Summit County, Utah

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

pmenmnt saree,

Jo. S Dy 3.

Dave Thomas, Chief Civil Deputy Attorney, Summit County, Utah


EXHIBIT A
Amendments to Chapter 7 of the Eastern
Summit County General Plan


Chapter 7

Moderate Income Housing

INTRODUCTION

Rather than being monolithic, moderate-income housing is a multifaceted challenge for
Summit County. It is tied closely to a variety of challenges including extremely high
median housing costs; traffic congestion and legacy transportation issues; availability of
sufficient local laborers; business challenges due to lack of access fo labor; an
increasingly non-diverse community; a shrinking number of full-time residents with long-
term community and generational ties; increasing environmental degradation due to
increasing development pressures; concerns about sustainability of air, land, and water
natural resources; and the critical need to manage and limit rapid growth in a County that
seeks to preserve open spaces, agricultural and cultural heritage (collectively, “Critical
Concerns”). Accordingly, creating standards and strategies concerning moderate-income
housing in this Chapter would be incomplete, ineffective, and potentially harmful to the
vision and goals of this General Plan as well as the County Council’s vision, values, and
strategic goals without carefully evaluating the impacts of any such standards and
strategies on the Critical Concerns to determine if they will aggravate or mitigate and
provide solutions to those Critical Concerns. All such standards and strategies and the
Critical Concerns should continually be evaluated given the dynamic nature of growth in
and on the borders of the County.

The Summit County Manager, relevant staff as determined by the County Manager, and
the County Council should regularly assess the County’s moderate-income housing
needs and seek to articulate where such housing is most appropriate and for whom the
need is greatest at any given moment always taking into careful consideration the Critical
Concerns (“Moderate-Income Housing Assessment’). A priority of any such assessment
should seek to identify if housing challenges are creating significant labor shortages in
critical areas such a law enforcement, emergency medical services, education, doctors
and nurses and other health care professionals, and local government workforce. In
addition, the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment should examine the needs of long-
term resident seniors seeking to age in place in the County as well as the County's tourism
industry’s workforce. With respect to tourism workforce, any strategies developed in this
Chapter 7 should seek to require major employers to bear some of the burden of providing
employees with housing opportunities as well as reasonable wages that consider the high
housing costs in resort counties much like the difference in wages paid in rural Utah
compared to San Francisco, California.

External influences also need to be part of the Moderate-iIncome Housing Assessment,
such as whether nightly rentals are removing long-term housing from the. available
housing capacity with a result of hollowing out formerly well-established neighborhoods,
particularly outside of resort cores. Such assessment should consider any moderate-
income housing permitted, platted, commenced and/or built since the prior Moderate-
Income Housing Assessment. Careful consideration of where to locate housing is a
fundamental question the Moderate-income Housing Assessment needs to examine in

each instance with a focus on the Critical Concerns. For example, building or incentivizing
4

affordable housing in the Snyderville Basin for County workforce that work primarily in
County offices in Coalville requires commuting, which the moderate-income housing plan
should seek to reduce. In addition, approving a large ratio of market rate housing to obtain
a smaller ratio of affordable housing exacerbates the dearth of affordable housing given
the additional services and workers required to service the market rate housing, and
should be avoided.

' The critical questions of each Moderate-Income Housing Assessment should include for
whom, ideal location(s), transit and transportation access, trails access, and access to
services to reduce commuting and car trips, as well an assessment of the state of each
of the Critical Concerns. Those preparing the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment
need to include specific metrics that are transparent, effective, and easy to understand
that can be used to provide of positive or negative impacts that may be used by the
County to adjust the goals and strategies contained in this Chapter 7.

With respect to all analyses and changes to land use regulations contained in this
Chapter 7, the County should carefully consider the positive and negative impacts on
each of the Critical Concerns to make sure any such changes are likely to reduce deficits
identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment and do not result in unintended
consequences that negatively impact the Critical Concerns.

Moderate income housing is defined as: “Housing occupied or reserved for
occupancy by households with a gross household income equal to or less than
80% of the median gross income for households of the same size in the county in
which the housing is located.” However, given that the median gross income for
the County is substantially higher than the national average, consideration should
be given to requiring moderate-income housing that is targeted to lower median
gross income depending upon the intended solutions sought as identified in the
Moderate-income Housing Assessment.

GOAL: Provide moderate-income housing opportunities that address the
moderate-income housing needs identified in the Moderate-Income Housing
Assessment, as updated in accordance with the introduction of this Chapter. Due
to already aggressive market rate housing growth pressures, it is essential that
moderate-income housing does not come as a trade-off for additional market rate
housing that may ultimately increase the moderate-income housing deficit due to
the additional impacts created by the market rate housing and coincident
infrastructure, services, and other needs that generate requirements for additional
workforce. The primary goal should be meaningful reductions in existing deficits
identified in the Moderate-income Housing Assessment.

OBJECTIVE A: Develop strategies to facilitate an adequate supply of moderate-
income housing to reduce the identified deficits of housing in Eastern Summit
County for various moderate- and low-income groups. living, working, or desiring
to work in Summit County, all as identified and prioritized in the Moderate-Income
Housing Assessment, as updated, while minimizing negative impacts on the
Critical Concerns.

The County shall measure demand and the County’s progress toward meeting
such demand through annual reporting, consistent with the requirements of Utah
law.

STRATEGY A: Demonstrate implementation of any other program or
strategy to address the housing needs of residents of the County who earn
less than 80% of the area median income, including the dedication of a
local funding source to moderate income housing or the adoption of a land
use ordinance that requires 10% or more of new residential development
in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate income housing (Utah Code
§ 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(W)).

Implementation Measure 7.1: Within two years of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, the County Council should, amend
the Development Code to provide incentives for a developer
who agrees to include moderate income housing units in a
project. Incentives could include, but are not limited to,
additional units as part of the Master Planned Development
Deed Restricted Open Space Land Calculation Process, or as
a negotiated component of the Village Overlay process.

STRATEGY B: Identify possible changes to land use regulations
including, Development Code amendments and zoning changes
including, rezones and the creation of new zones, all narrowly tailored
to further the purposes of this Chapter. All such changes should be
targeted to creating appropriate densities necessary to facilitate the
production of moderate-income housing to reduce housing deficits
identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment, as modified,
while minimizing negative impacts on Critical Concerns. All such
strategies should include well-crafted, understandable, and enforceable
deed restrictions to ensure that all such moderate-income housing
meets the goals of this Chapter over the long term.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(A))

Implementation Measure 7.2: Summit County shall facilitate
an annual review of the Annexation Declaration Area overlays
with local municipalities to ensure on-going communication
and cooperation on matters related ‘to moderate income
housing. In trying to identify the most appropriate locations for
moderate income housing, decision makers should consider
land use; transportation/mobility; infrastructure; water
resource protection; and open space.

Implementation Measure 7.3: Identify appropriate locations
for moderate income units, multifamily residential, and mixed-
use developmenis through the Village Overlay process.

Implementation Measure 7.4: Within one year of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, the Planning Commission should
review and, if necessary, update existing infrastructure,
transportation, and water quality studies.

implementation Measure 7.5: Within two years of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, the Planning Commission should,
use existing infrastructure, transportation, and water quality
studies to create a Future Land Use Map in the General Plan
that identifies potential locations for multifamily residential and
mixed-use developments.

Implementation Measure 7.6: After the creation of the Future
Land Use map, create multifamily and mixed-use zoning
districts in the Development Code. These zoning districts
would be eligible only in areas identified on the Future Land
Use Map as mixed-use areas.

Implementation Measure 7.7: Within two years of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, amend the Development Code to
create a process and definitions to allow duplex and triplex
dwelling units in the AG-2.5, C, and VO zones.

STRATEGY C: Identify and utilize county general fund subsidies or other sources
of revenue to waive construction related fees that are otherwise generally imposed
by the county for the construction or rehabilitation of moderate-income housing
(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(D)).

Implementation Measure 7.8: Within two years of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, the County Council should, amend
the Development Code to make deed restricted moderate
income units eligible for waivers from Building and Planning
Department application and permit fees. Ensure that the
waivers apply only to moderate income units and not to
market rate units and/or lots in a development containing
moderate income units.

implementation Measure 7.9: Annually review, and amend
as necessary, the Summit County Transportation Impact Fee
waiver for moderate income housing as set forth in Summit
County Code, Title 9, Chapter 2C.

STRATEGY D: Create or allow for, and reduce regulations


related to, internal and detached accessory dwelling units in
residential zones (Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(E)).

Implementation Measure 7.10: Within two years of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, amend the Development Code to
reduce regulations related to accessory dwelling units.

Implementation Measure 7.11: Within two years of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, amend the Development Code to
make accessory dwelling units an allowed use in the AG-2.5,
AG-5, AG-10, AG-20, AG-40, AG-80, VO, and C zones.

Implementation Measure 7.12: Clarify accessory dwelling
unit regulations to ensure that fee waivers, or other benefits
apply only to deed-restricted long-term moderate-income
housing units.

STRATEGY E: Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in
new developments (Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(J)).

Implementation Measure 7.13: Within two years of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, amend Development Code
language in the Village Overlay (VO) and Commercial (C)
zones to incentivize the creation of moderate-income housing
units. Incentives may include:

e increased building height
e expedited building permit reviews
e building and planning department fee waivers

implementation Measure 7.14: Within one year of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Pian by the State of Utah, amend the Development Code to
incentivize the creation of deed restricted affordable senior
living communities for residents that are 55 years old or older.

STRATEGY F: Demonstrate creation of, or participate in, a community
land trust program for moderate income housing (Utah Code § 17-27a-
403(2)(b)ii(M)).

Implementation Measure 7.15: Within two years of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, study and implement the creation
of a Summit County Housing Authority and/or regional

housing authority.

Implementation Measure 7.16: Annually meet with focal
non-profit organizations who support the creation of and
intend to ensure the long-term affordability of moderate-
income housing to establish on-going cooperation and
coordination and to maintain public/private partnerships.

Implementation Measure 7.17: Within one year of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, establish a stakeholder committee
comprised of local governments, community housing
agencies, and residents to establish numerical goals and
associated milestones to track and monitor progress of
creating moderate income housing and to uncover shortfalls.



