EASTERN SUMMIT 
COUNTY 
GENERAL PLAN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AMENDED AUGUST 13, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
CHAPTER 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  
 
PAGE 
1 Mission Statement & Vision 1 
2 Land Use 2 
3 Infrastructure and Transportation 4 
4 Economic Diversity / Development 5 
5 Natural Resources / Environmental Quality 6 
6 Municipal Coordination and Cooperation 7 
7 Moderate Income Housing 8 
8 Community Planning Process 9 
 Resources 10 
1  
Chapter 1 – Mission Statement and Vision 
 
 
MISSION STATEMENT 
 
To enhance the quality of life in Eastern Summit County through responsible growth that fosters 
stewardship of the land and natural resources while balancing private property rights and 
respecting our rural and agricultural foundation. 
 
 
VISION FOR EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY 
 
Eastern Summit County is shaped by a unique mix of rural agriculture, scenic landscape, natural 
resources, people, and economic trends. The way of life that has sustained Eastern Summit 
County in the past is evolving and changing. Farming, ranching, timber and mining, although 
still important, are no longer the primary activities. 
 
Growth is occurring; increasing population and the residential and commercial development that 
goes with it has created opportunities and challenges that include things such as water and sewer 
issues, traffic congestion, rural atmosphere, and incompatible uses. As population increases, 
there will be a need for improved infrastructure and services. There will also be a need for 
coordination between development in the municipalities and the unincorporated areas. 
 
With all of this change it is imperative that Eastern Summit County create a “road map” that will 
help guide land use and development, as well as help preserve the quality of life and maintain the 
unique Eastern Summit County identity. It is our challenge to understand the impacts of growth 
and make decisions to create the most positive outcome for the future. 
 
The goal of this General Plan is to provide an advisory guide to help direct decisions that will 
affect development, land use patterns, and lifestyles while maintaining the unique identity and 
rural atmosphere of Eastern Summit County. The goals and desired actions set forth in this 
document aim to achieve development that matches the available and/planned infrastructure, that 
permits historic and new land uses to coexist, and that maintains the open country and 
opportunities that have become the hallmark of Eastern Summit County living. The plan further 
seeks to set forth land use and administrative changes that create greater predictability and 
accountability in the development process. 
 
The Development Code and Zoning Maps will be used to implement this General Plan in a 
manner that minimizes inappropriate land uses, that prevents over extension of County services, 
that increases predictability in development, and that helps preserve or protect natural resources 
as well as scenic and environmentally sensitive areas. 
2  
Chapter 2 - Land Use 
 
2.1 GOAL: Develop land use codes which balance the diversity of desires of Eastern 
Summit County residents, including private property rights. 
 
a. Work to ensure that new development is suitably located to minimize impacts to 
surrounding areas. 
 
b. Ensure that all new development has adequate resources and infrastructure to support 
the proposed intensity of use, and work to ensure that the infrastructure costs of new 
development are proportionally borne by the developer. 
 
c. Work to ensure that single-family residential development minimizes disturbance, 
and is clustered where appropriate. 
 
d. Encourage new agricultural and residential development that is consistent with the 
immediate surrounding area. Large agriculture buildings and high-impact animal 
production operations should not be placed in residential areas; consider the 
development of a residential zone and other zones as appropriate to separate 
agricultural and residential uses in locations where higher density development may 
be appropriate. 
 
e. Identify existing land uses, land use patterns, agricultural lands, environmental 
constraints, and other factors as appropriate to aid in land use decisions. 
 
f. Develop provisions in the Development Code that will allow simple, single lot, land 
divisions while controlling larger subdivision developments in a way that protects the 
property rights of the landowners as well as the surrounding neighbors. 
 
g. Enact ordinances, resolutions, codes and other forms of land use controls to reduce 
nuisances and land use incompatibilities. 
 
h. Create, modify, and maintain appropriate zone districts to accommodate a variety of 
uses while recognizing and respecting existing land use patterns. 
 
i. Create appropriate and predictable development procedures in the Development Code 
to ensure that all land use and development is adequately reviewed and determined to 
be consistent with the goals of this Plan before any approvals are granted. 
 
j. Proactively forecast the impact of the existing development code and new 
amendments to understand their impact upon the future buildout of Eastern Summit 
County. 
 
2.2 GOAL: Acknowledge the historic rural and agricultural character of Eastern 
Summit County. 
3  
a. Recognize agricultural operations as a significant and important use of the land. 
 
b. Consider those land use patterns and strategies that support and protect existing and 
future agricultural operations; support the development of tools and programs to 
allow the preservation of productive agricultural lands. Among others these may 
include agricultural preservation areas, plat notes and other methods to educate new 
residents of the agricultural nature of the area, cooperative agreements with 
landowners, and a program to transfer density from agriculturally productive lands. 
 
c. Implement “Agricultural Protection and Right to Farm” strategies, and require all 
non-agricultural activities to develop in a manner that is harmonious with nearby 
agricultural operations. 
 
d. Reevaluate and possibly amend the Development Code to streamline the process for 
designating and modifying Agricultural Protection / Preservation areas. 
 
e. Coordinate with the Eastern Summit County Agriculture and Open Space Committee 
(ESAP) and the affected municipalities in the acquisition of conservation easements 
and/or restrictions to preserve agricultural lands and open space. 
 
2.3 GOAL: Coordinate with the Summit County Landmarks & Heritage Commission 
on the preservation of cultural resources and heritage. 
 
a. Provide for the revision of existing and development of new inventories of culturally 
significant structures, sites, and landmarks within Eastern Summit County. 
 
b. Consider development of a heritage preservation plan. 
 
c. Evaluate the need to adopt a local ordinance that would require, at a minimum, 
documentation prior to demolition or alteration of any structures, sites or landmarks 
identified in the heritage preservation inventory. If measures beyond documentation 
are implemented, consider development of funding sources and/or incentives for 
preservation. 
4  
Chapter 3 - Infrastructure / Transportation 
 
3.1 GOAL: Establish level of service expectations that are compatible with the County’s 
ability to serve different areas of Eastern Summit County, especially the more 
remote areas. 
 
a. Educate existing and future residents regarding service and infrastructure 
expectations and limitations in Eastern Summit County. 
 
b. Provide a means by which existing and future residents understand the levels of 
service that will be provided by the County and other service providers in each zone 
district or geographic area of Eastern Summit County. 
 
c. Work with service providers to apply reasonable infrastructure guidelines to be 
utilized by the County during the development review process, and to forecast future 
infrastructure needs. 
 
d. Identify alternate locations for a future landfill and other appropriate County 
facilities. 
 
e. Nuclear waste storage facilities and transfer facilities, either wholly or partially within 
Eastern Summit County, are not appropriate. 
 
3.2 GOAL: Create and implement transportation strategies to address current and 
future needs. 
 
a. Adopt the Eastern Summit County Transportation Master Plan, as amended, to 
continue to develop a transportation system that supports the goals of the Eastern 
Summit County General Plan. 
 
b. Investigate potential methods to bring existing Eastern Summit County roads up to 
County standards. 
 
c. Periodically review the Transportation Master Plan to ensure that the plans addresses 
the needs of residents including multiple modes of transportation, with focus on 
safety, infrastructure, and appropriate infrastructure size/width. 
 
d. Monitor the potential for public transit opportunities. 
5  
 
Chapter 4 - Economic Diversity / Development 
 
4.1 GOAL: Support economic development and diversity to strengthen the economic 
base of Eastern Summit County, promote the social and economic well-being of the 
residents, and build community with a strong, diversified, year-round economy. 
 
a. Where appropriate, permit recreational opportunities that will enhance the quality of 
life in Eastern Summit County and provide economic development opportunities. 
 
b. Encourage businesses and activities to provide a range of jobs and opportunities, 
including those that pay a living wage that can support permanent resident 
households. 
 
c. Promote the development of small home based businesses or clean cottage type 
industries in the Development Code. 
 
d. Guide growth in a manner that promotes economic development and efficient use of 
services and permits economically beneficial use of land. 
e. Coordinate with economic development groups as appropriate. 
 
f. Investigate potential development strategies and possible locations for neighborhood 
commercial uses. 
6  
Chapter 5 - Natural Resources / Environmental Quality 
 
5.1 GOAL: Develop codes and policies that promote proper stewardship of natural 
resources and address environmental issues of Eastern Summit County. 
 
a. Ensure that development occurs in a manner and location that protects natural 
resources, including but not limited to pollution prevention, erosion prevention, 
national forests, crucial wildlife habitat and corridors, agricultural lands, fisheries, 
water quality, wetlands, scenic view sheds, riparian areas, wildlife and clean air. 
 
b. Implement strategies to ensure that there is adequate quality and quantity of water for 
all new development, and require water conservation and quality plans. 
 
c. Preserve and create appropriate motorized and non-motorized trails and access to 
public land in conjunction with the municipalities and US Forest Service. The 
intention is not to require property owners who live adjacent to the National Forest to 
provide public access. 
 
d. Cooperate with State and Federal public land use agencies and other jurisdictions. 
 
e. Require long-term management plans for all designated open space areas. Pursue an 
aggressive weed control program that addresses noxious weeds. 
 
f. Consider the creation of a night-sky ordinance. 
 
g. Ensure that land is appropriately reclaimed and restored following the conclusion of 
disruptive activities. 
 
5.2 GOAL: Implement measures designed to promote energy conservation and the 
development of renewable energy in Eastern Summit County. 
 
a. Encourage development of renewable resources as a substitute for oil, natural gas, 
and other limited energy supplies used for electricity generation, and to reduce 
consumption of these supplies. 
 
b. Work with appropriate public agencies to permit and approve development of 
alternative energy. 
 
c. Consider incentives to encourage green building practices such as LEED or 
EnergySTAR certification and use of recycled materials. 
7  
Chapter 6 - Municipal Coordination and Cooperation 
 
6.1 GOAL: Provide consistent communications and coordination with each 
municipality in Eastern Summit County to encourage all development, whether 
within the municipality or within the County, to be appropriately managed. 
 
a. Encourage cooperative land use planning efforts between Eastern Summit County 
and the municipalities. 
 
b. Improve communications between the municipalities and Eastern Summit County 
by implementing a communication plan. 
 
c. Encourage development within established annexation overlay areas to conform 
to the development standards of the declarant municipality as applicable. 
 
d. Establish policies that encourage growth within declared annexation overlay areas 
to maximize existing services and infrastructure. 
 
e. Work jointly with the municipalities to determine if appropriate locations and 
services are available for industry and business within or adjacent to those 
municipalities. 
8  
Chapter 7 - Moderate Income Housing 
 
7.1 GOAL: Promote a mix of housing types and availability. 
 
a. Periodically review and update the Housing Needs Assessment (technical appendix) 
to ensure that housing needs are identified as they change over time. 
 
b. Consider mechanisms to provide a realistic opportunity to meet estimated housing 
needs within Eastern Summit County, including a variety of housing types and 
affordability. 
 
c. Consider incentives such as fee-waivers and density increases to encourage private 
sector development of moderate income housing. 
 
d. Encourage moderate income housing development close to existing services and 
infrastructure. 
 
e. Clarify the intention and development standards for seasonal dwelling units in the 
Development Code. 
 
f. Ensure that housing is affordable to households earning 80% of the median income 
for Eastern Summit County, not the median income as affected by the Snyderville 
Basin and Park City. 
 
g. Incorporate the definition of “Middle Income Housing” in the Development Code 
and other policy documents.  
 
h. Explore a Fee Deferral Program and/or other incentives for Deed-Restricted 
ADUs. 
 
i. Examine any potential programs or partnerships with the Mountainlands 
Association of Governments (MAG) for the creation of moderate-income housing 
opportunities.  
 
 
Chapter 7   
Moderate Income Housing  
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Rather than being monolithic, moderate -income housing is a multifaceted challenge for Summit 
County. It is tied closely to a variety of challenges including extremely high median housing costs; 
traffic congestion and legacy transportation issues; availabil ity of sufficient local laborers; 
business challenges due to lack of access to labor; an increasingly non- diverse community; a 
shrinking number of full -time residents with long -term community and generational ties; 
increasing environmental degradation due to increasing development pressures; concerns about 
sustainability of air, land, and water natural resources; and the critical need to manage and limit 
rapid growth in a County that seeks to preserve open spaces, agricultural and cultural heritage 
(collectively, “Critical Concerns”). Accordingly, creating standards and strategies concerning 
moderate-income housing in this Chapter would be incomplete, ineffective, and potentially 
harmful to the vision and goals of this General Plan as well as the County Council’s vision, values, 
and strategic goals without carefully evaluating the impacts of any such standards and strategies 
on the Critical Concerns to determine if they will aggravate or mitigate and provide solutions to 
those Critical Concerns. All such stan dards and strategies and the Critical Concerns should 
continually be evaluated given the dynamic nature of growth in and on the borders of the County.  
 
The Summit County Manager, relevant staff as determined by the County Manager, and the 
County Council should regularly assess the County’s moderate-income housing needs and seek to 
articulate where such housing is most appropriate and for whom the need is greatest at any given 
moment always taking into careful consideration the Critical Concerns (“Moderate -Income 
Housing Assessment”). A priority of any such assessment should seek to identify if housing 
challenges are creating significant labor shortages in critical areas such a law enforcement, 
emergency medical services, education, doctors and nurses and other health care professionals, 
and local government workforce. In addition, the Moderate -Income Housing Assessment should 
examine the needs of long-term resident seniors seeking to age in place in the County as well as 
the County’s tourism industry’s workforce. With respect to tourism workforce, any strategies 
developed in this Chapter 7 should seek to require major employers to bear some of the burden 
of providing employees with housing opportunities as well as reasonable wages that consider the 
high housing costs in resort counties much like the difference in wages paid in rural Utah 
compared to San Francisco, California.  
 
External influences also need to be part of the Moderate -Income Housing Assessment, such as 
whether nightly rentals are removing long-term housing from the available housing capacity with 
a result of hollowing out formerly well -established neighborhoods, particularly outside of resort 
cores. Such assessment should consider any moderate -income housing permitted, platted, 
commenced and/or built since the prior Moderate -Income Housing Assessment. Careful 
consideration of where to locate housing is a fundamental question the Moderate -Income 
2 
 
Housing Assessment needs to examine in each instance with a focus on the Critical Concerns. For 
example, building or incentivizing affordable housing in the Snyderville Basin for County 
workforce that work primarily in County offices in Coalville requires commuting, which the 
moderate-income housing plan should seek to reduce. In addition, approving a large ratio of 
market rate housing to obtain a smaller ratio of affordable housing exacerbates the dearth of 
affordable housing given the additional services and workers required to service the market rate 
housing, and should be avoided.   
 
The critical questions of each Moderate -Income Housing Assessment should include for whom, 
ideal location(s), transit and transportation access, trails access, and access to services to reduce 
commuting and car trips, as well an assessment of the state of each of the Critical Concerns. 
Those preparing the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment need to include specific metrics that 
are transparent, effective, and easy to understand that can be used to provide of positive or 
negative impacts that may be used by the County to adjust the goals and strategies contained in 
this Chapter 7. 
 
With respect to all analyses and changes to land use regulations contained in this Chapter 7, the 
County should carefully consider the positive and negative impacts on each of the Critical 
Concerns to make sure any such changes are likely to reduce deficits identified in the Moderate-
Income Housing Assessment and do not result in unintended consequences that negatively 
impact the Critical Concerns. 
 
 
Moderate income housing is defined as: “Housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by 
households with a gross household income equal to or less than 80% of the median gross 
income for households of the same size in the county in which the housing is located.” 
However, given that the median gros s income for the County is substantially higher than the 
national average, consideration should be given to requiring moderate -income housing that 
is targeted to lower median gross income depending upon the intended solutions sought as 
identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment. 
 
GOAL: Provide moderate -income housing opportunities that address the moderate -income 
housing needs identified in the Moderate -Income Housing Assessment, as updated in 
accordance with the Introduction of this Chapter. Due to already aggressive market rate 
housing growth pressures, it is essential that moderate -income housing does not come as a 
trade-off for additional market rate housing that may ultimately increase the moderate -
income housing deficit due to the additional impacts created by the market rate housing and 
coincident infrastructure, services, and other needs that generate requirements for additional 
workforce. The primary goal should be meaningful reductions in existing deficits identified in 
the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment. 
   
 
 
3 
 
7.1 GOAL: Promote a mix of housing types and availability. 
 
Policy 7.1.1: Periodically review and update the Housing Needs Assessment (technical 
appendix) to ensure that housing needs are identified as they change over time.  
 
Policy 7.1.2:  Consider mechanisms to provide a realistic opportunity to meet estimated 
housing needs within Eastern Summit County, including a variety of housing types and 
affordability.  
 
Policy 7.1.3: Incorporate the definition of “Middle Income Housing” in the Development 
Code and other policy documents. 
 
Policy 7.1.4: Examine any potential programs or partnerships with the Mountainlands 
Association of Governments (MAG) for the creation of moderate-income housing 
opportunities.  
 
Policy 7.1.5: Encourage moderate income housing development close to existing 
services and infrastructure. 
 
Policy 7.1.6: Clarify the intention and development standards for seasonal dwelling units 
in the Development Code. 
 
GOAL 7.2: Consider incentives such as fee-waivers and increased density to encourage private 
sector development of moderate-income housing. 
 
Policy 7.2.1: Explore a Fee Deferral Program and/or other incentives for Deed-
Restricted ADUs. 
 
Policy 7.2.2: Identify and utilize county general fund subsidies or other sources of 
revenue to waive construction related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by 
the county for the construction or rehabilitation of moderate-income housing (Utah 
Code § 17-27a- 403(2)(b)ii(D)). 
 
Implementation 7.2.2a: Within two years of the approval of the Summit County 
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, the County Council should, 
amend the Development Code to make deed restricted moderate-income units 
eligible for waivers from Building and Planning Department application and 
permit fees. Ensure that the waivers apply only to moderate income units and 
not to market rate units and/or lots in a development containing moderate 
income units. 
 
4 
 
Implementation 7.2.2b: Annually review, and amend as necessary, the Summit 
County Transportation Impact Fee waiver for moderate income housing as set 
forth in Summit County Code, Title 9, Chapter 2C. 
 
GOAL 7.3:  Ensure that housing is affordable to households earning 80% of the median 
income for Eastern Summit County, not the median income as affected by the Snyderville 
Basin and Park City. 
 
Policy 7.3.1: Staff has adopted this as part of the 5-year housing needs assessment, 
summit county shall include calculations based on median household income for 
Eastern Summit County in addition to Area Median Family Income for Summit County 
 
GOAL 7.4: Demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the 
housing needs of residents of the county who earn less than 80% of the area median income, 
including the dedication of a local funding source to moderate income housing or the 
adoption of a land use ordinance that requires 10% or more of new residential development 
in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate income housing (Utah Code § 17-27a-
403(2)(b)ii(W)). 
 
Policy 7.4.1: Create or allow for, or incentivize, development of moderate-income 
housing integrated within existing market rate housing development in Eastern Summit 
County.  
 
Implementation 7.4.1a: Within two years of the approval of the Summit County 
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, the County Council should, 
amend the Development Code to provide incentives for a developer who agrees 
to include moderate income housing units in a project. Incentives could include, 
but are not limited to, additional units as part of the Master Planned 
Development Deed Restricted Open Space Land Calculation Process, or as a 
negotiated component of the Village Overlay process. 
 
Goal 7.5 Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal and or detached 
accessory dwelling units in residential zones (Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(E)). 
 
Policy 7.5.1: Ensure regulations related to internal or detached accessory dwelling units 
in residential units are reviewed and clarified to reduce barriers to development.  
 
Implementation 7.5.1a: Within two years of the approval of the Summit County 
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, amend the Development 
Code to reduce regulations related to accessory dwelling units. 
 
Implementation 7.5.2b: Within two years of the approval of the Summit County 
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, amend the Development 
5 
 
Code to make accessory dwelling units an allowed use in the AG-2.5, AG-5, AG-
10, AG-20, AG-40, AG-80, VO, and C zones. 
 
Implementation 7.5.2c: Within two years of the approval of the Summit County 
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, begin to track ADUs 
approved through the Summit County Building Department.  
 
Policy 7.5.2: Clarify accessory dwelling unit regulations to ensure that fee waivers, or 
other benefits apply only to deed-restricted long-term moderate-income housing units. 
 
Goal 7.6:  Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new developments 
(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(J)). 
  
Policy 7.6.1: Utilize opportunities with the Village Overlay (VO) and Commercial (c) to 
encourage the development of moderate-income housing.  
 
Implementation 7.6.1a: Within two years of the approval of the Summit County 
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, amend Development Code 
language in the Village Overlay (VO) and Commercial (C) zones to incentivize the 
creation of moderate-income housing units. Incentives may include: 
 
 increased building height 
 expedited building permit reviews 
 building and planning department fee waivers 
 
Implementation 7.6.2b: Within one year of the approval of the Summit County 
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, amend the Development 
Code to incentivize the creation of deed restricted affordable senior living 
communities for residents that are 55 years old or older. 
 
Goal 7.7: Demonstrate creation of, or participate participation in, a community land trust 
program for moderate income housing (Utah Code § 17- 27a-403(2)(b)ii(M)). 
 
Policy 7.7.1: Continue to provide support to local non-profit organizations in Summit 
County and explore new ways to participate in the development of moderate-income 
housing.  
 
Implementation 7.7.1a: Within two years of the approval of the Summit County 
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, study and implement the 
creation of a Summit County Housing Authority.  
 
Implementation 7.7.2b: Annually meet with local non-profit organizations who 
support the creation of and intend to ensure the long-term affordability of 
6 
 
moderate- income housing to establish on-going cooperation and coordination 
and to maintain public/private partnerships. 
 
Implementation 7.7.3c: Within one year of the approval of the Summit County 
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, establish a stakeholder 
committee comprised of local governments, community housing agencies, and 
residents to establish numerical goals and associated milestones to track and 
monitor progress of creating moderate income housing and to uncover 
shortfalls. 
 
  
 
 
9  
Chapter 8 – Community planning process 
 
8.1 GOAL: Ensure that the Eastern Summit County General Plan is adaptable and 
balances the needs of property owners and residents. 
 
a. Provide for the regular review of the General Plan, to occur at a minimum once a 
calendar year. 
 
b. Work with residents and property owners to further understand their values and 
needs. Find new creative ways to solicit input and participation on the general plan, 
development code, and land use issues from the public at-large. 
 
c. Plan for orderly and logical growth by utilizing long and short-term studies to predict 
transportation and infrastructure requirements for the future including general plans 
for sewage, water, waste disposal, drainage, public utilities and other public services. 
 
 
Figure 1: Community Planning Process 
 
10  
Resources 
 
Maps: 
1. 2013 - Zone Map 
2. 2013 - Existing Land Uses (to be adopted at a later date) 
3. 2013 - Municipality Annexation Declaration Areas 
 
Technical Appendices 
1. 2012 - Affordable Housing Needs Assessment 
2. 2013 - Eastern Summit County Transportation Master Plan 