eX

SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 962

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE SNDERVILLE BASIN AND EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY MODERATE

INCOME HOUSING PLANS
PREAMBLE

WHEREAS, Utah Code Annotated (“UCA”) § 17-27a-401 requires that each county prepare and
adopt a comprehensive, long-range general plan for present and future needs of the county and for
growth and development of all or any part of the land within the unincorporated portions of the
county; and

WHEREAS, House Bill 462, Utah Housing and Affordability Amendments was approved during the
2022 legislative session and required Summit County to adopt a moderate-income housing element
that provides a realistic opportunity to meet the need for additional moderate-income housing
within the next five years; and

WHEREAS, the Snyderville Basin and Eastern Summit County moderate income housing plans were
approved by the Summit County Council, via Ordinances 950 and 951 on September 19, 2022; and

WHEREAS, On October 1, 2022, jurisdictions were required to submit their annual report to the
State Housing and Community Development Division; and

WHEREAS, Summit County submitted the report and was provided a letter dated November 30,
2092, with a Notice of Compliance which states: “Summit County has met the necessary requirement
for 17-27a-408(5)(a}{ii) and is eligible for Priority Consideration in the 2024 fiscal year for
Transportation Commission funding for transportation projects with the County and Governor's
Office of Planning and Budget Covid-19 Local Assistance Matching Grant Program.” It goes on to say:
“The Division of Housing and Community Development did identify some deficiencies which the
County should address prior to submitting the report in 2023. In the Snyderville Basin Plan, strategies
A, F, E, |, M, and T do not match the strategy language included in the State Statute. Strategies F and
M are minor typos in the text of the strategy... Strategies F, |, and W in the Snyderville Basin plan
require additional detail in the implementation plan.”; and

WHEREAS, Staff amended the Snyderville Basin Moderate Income Housing Element so that each
strategy matches the language in the State Statute and added additional details for implementation
for Strategies F, |, and W; and

WHEREAS, On July 11, 2023, the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission conducted a public hearing
and voted to forward a positive recommendation to the SCC; and

WHEREAS, The Notice of Compliance did not state changes were necessary to the Eastern Summit
County Moderate Income Housing Plan; however, Staff amended the language in the Plan to match
that in the State Statute to ensure consistency between the Snyderville Basin and Eastern Summit
County Planning Districts; and ‘


WHEREAS, On July 20, 2023, the Eastern Summit County Planning Commission conducted a public
hearing and voted to forward a positive recommendation to the SCC; and

WHEREAS the Summit County Council held a public hearing on July 26, 2023; and,

NOW, THEREFORE, the County Council of the County of Summit, State of Utah, ordains as follows:
Section1. The Snyderville Basin General Plan is amended as depicted in Exhibit A.

Section 2. The Eastern Summit County General Plan is amended as depicted in Exhibit B.

Section 3. Effective Date: This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after publication.

fn
Enacted this 26 day of Sy sg ; 2023.

ATTEST: VOTING OF COUNTY COUNCIL:

Councilmember Stevens hye
Councilmember Robinson hy rd
Councilmember Harte Pry ©
Councilmember Armstrong

~

Councilmember Hanson

it

. \
uNry COUNCIL
Roger Atmstrong; Chair

J

Evelyn Purse

Summit County Clerk

ROVED AS TO FORM
\ Ja} 2A Th.

David Thomas
Deputy County Attorney


EXHIBIT A

Chapter 6.1

Moderate Income Housing Element

INTRODUCTION

Rather than being monolithic, moderate-income housing is a multifaceted challenge for
Summit County. It is tied closely to a variety of Snyderville Basin challenges including
extremely high median housing costs; traffic congestion and legacy transportation
issues; availability of sufficient local laborers; business challenges due to lack of
access to labor; an increasingly non-diverse community; a shrinking number of full-
time residents with long-term community and generational ties; increasing
environmental degradation due to increasing development pressures; concerns about
sustainability of air, land, and water natural resources; and the critical need to manage
and limit rapid growth in a County that seeks to preserve open spaces, agricultural and
cultural heritage (collectively, “Critical Concerns”). Accordingly, creating standards and
strategies concerning moderate-income housing in this Chapter would be incomplete,
ineffective, and potentially harmful to the vision and goals of this General Plan as well
as the County Council’s vision, values, and strategic goals without carefully evaluating
the impacts of any such standards and strategies on the Critical Concerns to
determine if they will aggravate or mitigate and provide solutions to those Critical
Concerns. All such standards and strategies and the Critical Concerns should
continually be evaluated given the dynamic nature of growth in and on the borders of
the County.

The Summit County Manager, relevant staff as determined by the County Manager,
and the County Council should regularly assess the County’s moderate-income
housing needs and seek to articulate where such housing is most appropriate and for
whom the need is greatest at any given moment always taking into careful
consideration the Critical Concerns (“Moderate-Income Housing Assessment”). A
priority of any such assessment should seek to identify if housing challenges are
creating significant labor shortages in critical areas such as law enforcement,
emergency medical services, education, doctors and nurses and other health care
professionals, and local government workforce. In addition, the Moderate-Income
Housing Assessment should examine the needs of long-term resident seniors seeking
to age in place in the County, vulnerable populations, as well as the County’s tourism
industry’s workforce. With respect to tourism workforce, any strategies developed in
this Chapter 6.1 should seek to require major employers to bear some of the burden of
providing employees with housing opportunities as well as reasonable wages that take
into account the high housing costs in resort counties much like the difference in
wages paid in rural Utah compared to San Francisco, California.

External influences also need to be part of the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment,
such as whether nightly rentals are removing long-term housing from the available
housing capacity with a result of hollowing out formerly well-established
neighborhoods, particularly outside of resort cores. Such assessment should consider

60 North Main’ P.O. Box 128° Coalville, UT 84017
Phone (435) 336-3123

any moderate-income housing permitted, platted, commenced and/or built since the
prior Moderate-Income Housing Assessment. Careful consideration of where to locate
housing is a fundamental question the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment needs
to examine in each instance with a focus on the Critical Concerns. For example,
building or incentivizing affordable housing in the Snyderville Basin for County
workforce that work primarily in County offices in Coalville requires commuting, which
the moderate-income housing plan should seek to reduce. In addition, approving a
large ratio of market rate housing to obtain a smaller ratio of affordable housing
exacerbates the dearth of affordable housing given the additional services and workers
required to service the market rate housing, and should be avoided.

The critical questions of each Moderate-Income Housing Assessment should include:
for whom, ideal location(s), transit and transportation access, trails access, and
access to services to reduce commuting and car trips, as well an assessment of the
state of each of the Critical Concerns. Those preparing the Moderate-Income
Housing Assessment need to include specific metrics that are transparent, effective,
and easy to understand that can be used to provide of positive or negative impacts
that may be used by the County to adjust the goals and strategies contained in this
Chapter 6.1.

With respect to any and all analyses and changes to land use regulations contained
in this Chapter 6.1, the County should carefully consider the positive and negative
impacts on each of the Critical Concerns to make sure any such changes are likely to
reduce deficits identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment and do not
result in unintended consequences that negatively impact the Critical Concerns.

Moderate income housing is defined as: “Housing occupied or reserved
for occupancy by households with a gross household income equal to
or less than 80% of the median gross income for households of the
same size in the county in which the housing is located.” However,
given that the median gross income for the County is substantially
higher than the national average, consideration should be given to
requiring moderate-income housing that is targeted to lower median
gross income depending upon the intended solutions sought as
identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment.

GOAL: Provide moderate-income housing opportunities that address the
moderate-income housing needs identified in the Moderate-Income
Housing Assessment, as updated in accordance with the Introduction of
this Chapter. Due to already aggressive market rate housing growth
pressures, it is essential that moderate-income housing does not come
as a trade-off for additional market rate housing that may ultimately
increase the moderate-income housing deficit due to the additional
impacts created by the market rate housing and coincident
infrastructure, services, and other needs that generate requirements for
additional workforce. The primary goal should be meaningful reductions
in existing deficits identified in the Moderate-Income Housing

Assessment.

OBJECTIVE A: Develop strategies to facilitate an adequate supply of
moderate-income housing to reduce the identified deficits of housing in
the Snyderville Basin for various moderate and low income groups
living, working, or desiring to work in the Snyderville Basin, all as
identified and prioritized in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment,
as updated, while minimizing negative impacts on the Critical Concerns.

The County shall measure demand and the County’s progress toward
meeting such demand through annual reporting, consistent with the
requirements of Utah law.

STRATEGY A: Rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the
production of moderate income housing.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(A))

Implementation Measure 6.1.1: Annually review, and amend
as necessary, the Development Code moderate-income
housing provisions relating to the Neighborhood Mixed Use
Zone, Town Center Zone, and Resort Center Zone as
necessary to meet the goals and strategies of this Chapter.

Implementation Measure 6.1.2: Commence a study to
determine the suitability of using some or a portion of various
County owned properties for moderate-income housing, to
meet specific needs and deficits identified in the Moderate-
Income Housing Assessment. Such study should take into
consideration the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment as
well as other important County needs and uses for such
properties. Properties found suitable and appropriate for
moderate-income housing development should be considered
for moderate-income housing to meet deficits identified in the
Moderate-Income Housing Assessment but in all instances
any study must make findings concerning the impacts on
Critical Concerns. No County property acquired as public open
space or on which conservation easements have been
granted shall be considered for the purposes contemplated

herein.

Implementation Measure 6.1.3: Review the current mixed-use
zoning and density to determine whether the Moderate-Income
Housing Assessment indicates that additional zones or rezones for
higher density or moderate-income residential development in
commercial or mixed use zones, commercial centers, or
employment centers are required to achieve the purposes of this
Section 6.1.

Implementation Measure 6.1.4: Within a year of the approval of
the Summit County Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of
Utah, the Planning Commission should:

6.1.4.1 : Review the General Plan to identify, plan, and
possibly create additional neighborhood master planned
development and/or redevelopment areas, if and as
necessary, to relieve deficits identified in the Moderate-
Income Housing Assessment, as updated, in accordance
with this Chapter 6.1, and thereafter amend the General
Plan accordingly. Note that such review should take into
account such areas that the County has already identified in
the Snyderville Basin as well as in Eastern Summit County;
and

6.1.4.2 : Review the Future Land Use Maps in Chapter
9 of the General Plan to identify and define specific
densities that would be appropriate in mixed use areas
to facilitate the deficits identified in the Moderate-
Income Housing Assessment with careful consideration
of negative and positive impacts on the Critical
Concerns.

Implementation Measure 6.1.5: Within two years of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, the Planning Commission should
prepare and submit to the County Council an analysis of the
benefits of creating a moderate-income housing zone district
to address the deficits identified in the Moderate-Income
Housing Assessment, with careful consideration of negative
and positive impacts on the Critical Concerns as a critical part
of such analysis.

Implementation Measure 6.1.6: Zone or rezone for higher density
or moderate income residential development in commercial or
mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors,
commercial centers, or employment centers.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(F))

Timeline: Upon completion of “Our Summit’, a community visioning
project, to be completed in 2023, the Planning Commission will review and
update, if necessary, the General Plan Future Land Use Maps and identify
specific rezone areas as well as opportunities to create additional mixed
use zones.

Implementation Measure 6.1.7: Continue to regularly review, and

amend as necessary, the comprehensive long range Snyderville
Basin Transportation Master Plan.

Implementation Measure 6.1.8: Create or allow for, and reduce
regulations related to, internal or detached accessory dwelling
units in residential zones.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(E))

Implementation Measure 6.1.9: Amend the Development Code,
within one year, to require adequate bicycle parking requirements.

Implementation Measure 6.1.10: Amend the Development Code
in 2024 to allow for the development of Single Room Occupancy
(SRO) housing, group homes, community housing, emergency
shelter and transitional housing, and supported living facilities for
the elderly and persons with special housing needs in residential
zone districts, taking into consideration the proximity to public
transportation, shopping, medical services, and other essential
support services.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(|))

STRATEGY B: Identify and utilize county general fund subsidies or other
sources of revenue to waive construction related fees that are otherwise
generally imposed by the County for the construction or rehabilitation of
moderate-income housing.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(D))

Implementation Measure 6.1.11: Maintain, and annually review,
and amend as necessary, Development Code provisions regarding
fee waivers for moderate-income housing units.

Implementation Measure 6.1.12: Maintain, and annually review,
and amend as necessary, the fee in lieu of constructing moderate-
income housing established in the Development Code.

Implementation Measure 6.1.13: Amend the Development Code,
within one year, to allow fees in lieu that have been collected to

subsidize construction related fees for moderate-income housing
on private property.

STRATEGY C: Implement zoning incentives for moderate-income units in
new developments.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(J))

Implementation Measure 6.1.14: Amend the Development Code,
within two years, to incentivize the creation of moderate-income
housing units such as increased building height, reduced setbacks,

reduced parking standards, and expedited building permit reviews.

Implementation Measure 6.1.15: Maintain the incentive
community benefit criteria for incentive zoning for deed restricted
moderate-income housing in the Town Center and Resort Center
zone districts.

Implementation Measure 6.1.16: Amend the Development Code,
within two years, to incentivize the creation of deed restricted
affordable senior living communities for residents that are 55 years
old or older.

STRATEGY D: Develop and implement measures that hold developers
of moderate-income housing strategies accountable for the
implementation of their strategies, actions, and results. Monitoring
must be transparent with clear, easily understood metrics that enable
the developers, elected officials, and the public to easily understand if
and how progress is being made in implementing the strategy.

Implementation Measure 6.1.17: Require developers of
moderate-income housing to file annual reports with reasonably
detailed criteria that reports the compliance with applicable deed
restrictions; create penalties for failure to comply with such deed
restrictions and related enforcement mechanisms.

Implementation Measure 6.1.18: Create land use regulations
that prohibit nightly rentals of any housing units that are created
using any moderate-income housing incentives or pursuant to
land use regulations created, amended, or modified to facilitate
the creation of moderate-income housing.

Implementation Measure 6.1.19: Following receipt of the
Annual Moderate Income Housing Reporting Form, establish a
stakeholder committee that meets annually with the purpose of
adopting and monitoring specific measures to be used when
evaluating moderate-income housing projects.

Implementation Measure 6.1.20: Develop and implement a
public engagement program to communicate, educate, and
collaboratively problem solve issues related to creating
moderate-income housing in appropriate areas.

Implementation Measure 6.1.21: Annually report the
County’s progress toward meeting the moderate-income
housing demand as required by Utah law.

implementation Measure 6.1.22: Annually review the

number of moderate-income units entitled, permitted, and
constructed against the Moderate-Income Housing
Assessment, as updated.

STRATEGY E: Demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a
community land trust program for moderate-income housing.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(M))

Implementation Measure 6.1.23: Study and implement the
creation of a Summit County Housing Authority and/or regional
housing authority, within one year.

Implementation Measure 6.1.24: Annually meet with local non-
profit organizations who support the creation of and intend to
ensure the long-term affordability of moderate-income housing to
establish on-going cooperation and coordination and to maintain
public/private partnerships.

Implementation Measure 6.1.25: Establish a stakeholder
committee, within one year, comprised of local governments,
community housing agencies, and residents to establish numerical
goals and associated milestones to track and monitor progress of
creating moderate-income housing and to uncover shortfalls.

STRATEGY F: Ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local
political subdivision for the purpose of combining resources to acquire
property for moderate income housing.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(T))

Implementation Measure 6.1.26: Facilitate discussions with local
political subdivisions to enter into a joint agreement within two
years.

Implementation Measure 6.1.27: Within two years, coordinate
with local political subdivisions to accurately assess regional
moderate-income housing needs, including a regional employment

study.

Implementation Measure 6.1.28: Within one year, coordinate with
local political subdivisions in the development and implementation of
regional moderate-income housing strategies.

Implementation Measure 6.1.29: Within one year, coordinate with
local political subdivisions to identify local, state, and federal funding
sources to create moderate-income housing through a regional
housing authority or other forms of cooperation.

STRATEGY G: Demonstrate implementation of any other program or
strategy to address the housing needs of residents of the county who
earn less than 80% of the area median income, including the dedication
of a local funding source to moderate-income housing or the adoption of a
land use ordinance that requires 10% or more of new residential
development in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate-income
housing.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(W))

Implementation Measure 6.1.30: Annually review the Affordable
Housing chapter of the Snyderville Basin Development Code and
amend, if necessary, to ensure affordable housing best practices
are implemented. Maintain the requirement that all new residential
development be required to develop or ensure the development of
moderate income housing at a rate of twenty percent (20%) of the
units in a development. The moderate income housing obligation
shall continue to be met concurrently with the construction of
market rate units.

STRATEGY H: Create a housing and transit reinvestment zone (HTRZ)
pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part 6, Housing and Transit
Reinvestment Zone Act.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(Q))

Implementation Measure 6.1.31: Hold community public hearings
to acquire input in the criteria that the County should consider in
selecting a HTRZ within one year.

Implementation Measure 6.1.32: Amend the General Plan and
Development Code to codify HTRZ criteria and establish zones
where HTRZs are allowed within one year after the community

public hearings are closed.

Implementation Measure 6.1.33: Establish a development permit
application process for projects in the HTRZ within one year after
the community public hearings are closed.

EXHIBIT B

Chapter 7

Moderate Income Housing

INTRODUCTION

Rather than being monolithic, moderate-income housing is a multifaceted challenge for
Summit County. It is tied closely to a variety of challenges including extremely high
median housing costs; traffic congestion and legacy transportation issues; availability of
sufficient local laborers; business challenges due to lack of access to labor; an
increasingly non-diverse community; a shrinking number of full-time residents with long-
term community and generational ties; increasing environmental degradation due to
increasing development pressures; concerns about sustainability of air, land, and water
natural resources; and the critical need to manage and limit rapid growth in a County that
seeks to preserve open spaces, agricultural and cultural heritage (collectively, “Critical
Concerns”). Accordingly, creating standards and strategies concerning moderate-income
housing in this Chapter would be incomplete, ineffective, and potentially harmful to the
vision and goals of this General Plan as well as the County Council’s vision, values, and
strategic goals without carefully evaluating the impacts of any such standards and
strategies on the Critical Concerns to determine if they will aggravate or mitigate and
provide solutions to those Critical Concerns. All such standards and strategies and the
Critical Concerns should continually be evaluated given the dynamic nature of growth in
and on the borders of the County.

The Summit County Manager, relevant staff as determined by the County Manager, and
the County Council should regularly assess the County’s moderate-income housing
needs and seek to articulate where such housing is most appropriate and for whom the
need is greatest at any given moment always taking into careful consideration the Critical
Concerns (“Moderate-Income Housing Assessment’). A priority of any such assessment
should seek to identify if housing challenges are creating significant labor shortages in
critical areas such a law enforcement, emergency medical services, education, doctors
and nurses and other health care professionals, and local government workforce. In
addition, the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment should examine the needs of long-
term resident seniors seeking to age in place in the County as well as the County’s tourism
industry’s workforce. With respect to tourism workforce, any strategies developed in this
Chapter 7 should seek to require major employers to bear some of the burden of providing
employees with housing opportunities as well as reasonable wages that consider the high
housing costs in resort counties much like the difference in wages paid in rural Utah
compared to San Francisco, California.

External influences also need to be part of the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment,
such as whether nightly rentals are removing long-term housing from the available
housing capacity with a result of hollowing out formerly well-established neighborhoods,
particularly outside of resort cores. Such assessment should consider any moderate-
income housing permitted, platted, commenced and/or built since the prior Moderate-
Income Housing Assessment. Careful consideration of where to locate housing is a
fundamental question the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment needs to examine in

each instance with a focus on the Critical Concerns. For example, building or incentivizing
affordable housing in the Snyderville Basin for County workforce that work primarily in
County offices in Coalville requires commuting, which the moderate-income housing plan
should seek to reduce. In addition, approving a large ratio of market rate housing to obtain
a smaller ratio of affordable housing exacerbates the dearth of affordable housing given
the additional services and workers required to service the market rate housing, and
should be avoided.

The critical questions of each Moderate-Income Housing Assessment should include for
whom, ideal location(s), transit and transportation access, trails access, and access to
services to reduce commuting and car trips, as well an assessment of the state of each
of the Critical Concerns. Those preparing the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment
need to include specific metrics that are transparent, effective, and easy to understand
that can be used to provide of positive or negative impacts that may be used by the
County to adjust the goals and strategies contained in this Chapter 7.

With respect to all analyses and changes to land use regulations contained in this
Chapter 7, the County should carefully consider the positive and negative impacts on
each of the Critical Concerns to make sure any such changes are likely to reduce deficits
identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment and do not result in unintended
consequences that negatively impact the Critical Concerns.

Moderate income housing is defined as: “Housing occupied or reserved for
occupancy by households with a gross household income equal to or less than
80% of the median gross income for households of the same size in the county in
which the housing is located.” However, given that the median gross income for
the County is substantially higher than the national average, consideration should
be given to requiring moderate-income housing that is targeted to lower median
gross income depending upon the intended solutions sought as identified in the
Moderate-Income Housing Assessment.

GOAL: Provide moderate-income housing opportunities that address the
moderate-income housing needs identified in the Moderate-Income Housing
Assessment, as updated in accordance with the Introduction of this Chapter. Due
to already aggressive market rate housing growth pressures, it is essential that
moderate-income housing does not come as a trade-off for additional market rate
housing that may ultimately increase the moderate-income housing deficit due to
the additional impacts created by the market rate housing and coincident
infrastructure, services, and other needs that generate requirements for additional
workforce. The primary goal should be meaningful reductions in existing deficits
identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment.

OBJECTIVE A: Develop strategies to facilitate an adequate supply of moderate-
income housing to reduce the identified deficits of housing in Eastern Summit
County for various moderate- and low-income groups living, working, or desiring
to work in Summit County, all as identified and prioritized in the Moderate-Income
Housing Assessment, as updated, while minimizing negative impacts on the
Critical Concerns.

The County shall measure demand and the County’s progress toward meeting
such demand through annual reporting, consistent with the requirements of Utah
law.

STRATEGY A: Demonstrate implementation of any other program or
strategy to address the housing needs of residents of the County who earn
less than 80% of the area median income, including the dedication of a
local funding source to moderate income housing or the adoption of a land
use ordinance that requires 10% or more of new residential development
in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate income housing (Utah Code
§ 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(W)).

Implementation Measure 7.1: Within two years of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, the County Council should, amend
the Development Code to provide incentives for a developer
who agrees to include moderate income housing units in a
project. Incentives could include, but are not limited to,
additional units as part of the Master Planned Development
Deed Restricted Open Space Land Calculation Process, or as
a negotiated component of the Village Overlay process.

STRATEGY B: Identify and utilize county general fund subsidies or
other sources of revenue to waive construction related fees that are
otherwise generally imposed by the county for the construction or
rehabilitation of moderate-income housing (Utah Code § 17-27a-
403(2)(b)ii(D)).

Implementation Measure 7.2: Within two years of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, the County Council should, amend
the Development Code to make deed restricted moderate
income units eligible for waivers from Building and Planning
Department application and permit fees. Ensure that the
waivers apply only to moderate income units and not to
market rate units and/or lots in a development containing
moderate income units.

Implementation Measure 7.3: Annually review, and amend
as necessary, the Summit County Transportation Impact Fee
waiver for moderate income housing as set forth in Summit
County Code, Title 9, Chapter 2C.

STRATEGY C: Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related
to, internal and detached accessory dwelling units in residential
zones (Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(E)).

Implementation Measure 7.4: Within two years of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, amend the Development Code to
reduce regulations related to accessory dwelling units.

Implementation Measure 7.5: Within two years of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, amend the Development Code to
make accessory dwelling units an allowed use in the AG-2.5,
AG-5, AG-10, AG-20, AG-40, AG-80, VO, and C zones.

Implementation Measure 7.6: Clarify accessory dwelling unit
regulations to ensure that fee waivers, or other benefits apply
only to deed-restricted long-term moderate-income housing
units.

STRATEGY D: Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in
new developments (Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(J)).

Implementation Measure 7.7: Within two years of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, amend Development Code
language in the Village Overlay (VO) and Commercial (C)
zones to incentivize the creation of moderate-income housing
units. Incentives may include:

e increased building height
e expedited building permit reviews
e building and planning department fee waivers

Implementation Measure 7.8: Within one year of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, amend the Development Code to
incentivize the creation of deed restricted affordable senior
living communities for residents that are 55 years old or older.

STRATEGY E: Demonstrate creation of, or participate in, a community
land trust program for moderate income housing (Utah Code § 17-27a-
403(2)(b)ii(M)).

Implementation Measure 7.9: Within two years of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, study and implement the creation
of a Summit County Housing Authority and/or regional
housing authority.

!

Implementation Measure 7.10: Annually meet with local
non-profit organizations who support the creation of and
intend to ensure the long-term affordability of moderate-
income housing to establish on-going cooperation and
coordination and to maintain public/private partnerships.

Implementation Measure 7.11: Within one year of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, establish a stakeholder committee
comprised of local governments, community housing
agencies, and residents to establish numerical goals and
associated milestones to track and monitor progress of
creating moderate income housing and to uncover shortfalls.

