SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 980

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 6.1 HOUSING ELEMENT OF THE SNYDERVILLE BASIN
GENERAL PLAN AND CHAPTER 7, MODERATE INCOME HOUSING OF THE EASTERN
SUMMIT COUNTY GENERAL PLAN PREAMBLE

WHEREAS, Utah Code Annotated, (“UCA”) § 17-27a-401 requires that each county prepare
and adopt a comprehensive, long-range general plan: for present and future needs of the

county and for growth and development of all or any part of the land within the

unincorporated portions of the county.

WHEREAS, during the 2022 legislative session, the Utah State Legislature adopted
amendments to ("UCA") § 17-27a-401 that requires Summit County to adopt a moderate-
income housing element that provides a realistic opportunity to meet the need for
additional moderate-income housing within the next five years, selects three or more
moderate income housing strategies for implementation and includes animplementation
plan for each strategy; and

WHEREAS these amendments to the General Plan must be completed by August 1, 2024, or
the County could lose important funding for transportation and other projects, and,

WHEREAS, providing reasonably priced housing for Summit County residents that is near their
workplaces will reduce drive times, reduce traffic, and cut energy use and pollution; and,

WHEREAS, providing affordable housing within our community will promote economic and
social diversity within our communities that will provide for the needs of all residents, and
create a vibrant, diverse group of residents; and,

WHEREAS providing affordable housing will give local businesses easier access to workers
and ensure that working families remain in our community; and

WHEREAS the Eastern Summit County Planning Commission held a public hearing and
recommended adoption of the amended sections of the Eastern Summit County General
Plan on June 27, 2024: and

WHEREAS the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission held a public hearing and
recommended adoption of the amended sections of the Snyderville Basin General Plan on
June 11,2024;and

WHEREAS the Summit County Council held a public hearing on July 17, 2024; and,

NOW, THEREFORE, the County Council of the County of Summit, State of Utah, ordains as
follows:

Section 1. The Eastern Summit County General Plan is amended as depicted in Exhibit A.
Section 2. The Snyderville Basin General Planis amended as depicted in Exhibit B.

Section 3. Effective Date: This Ordinance shalltake effect immediately after publication.

oo
Enacted this|t day of uly 2024.

ATTEST: SUMMIT COUNTY COUNCIL
Summit County Clerk Malena Stevens, Chair

VOTING OF COUNTY COUNCIL:
APPROVED AS TO FORM

Councilmember Stevens

Councilmember Robinson ne
Ah Ban ES Q\-2~ Councilmember Harte AYwsent
David L. Thomas Councilmember Armstrong
Chief Civil Deputy Councilmember Hanson


Eylhink

Chapter 7
Moderate Income Housing

INTRODUCTION

Rather than being monolithic, moderate-income housing is a multifaceted challenge for Summit
County. It is tied closely to a variety of challenges including extremely high median housing costs;
traffic congestion and legacy transportation issues; availability of sufficient local laborers;
business challenges due to lack of access to labor; an increasingly non-diverse community; a
shrinking number of full-time residents with long-term community and generational ties;
increasing environmental degradation due to increasing development pressures; concerns about
sustainability of air, land, and water natural resources; and the critical need to manage and limit
rapid growth in a County that seeks to preserve open spaces, agricultural and cultural heritage
(collectively, “Critical Concerns”). Accordingly, creating standards and strategies concerning
moderate-income housing in this Chapter would be incomplete, ineffective, and potentially
harmful to the vision and goals of this General Plan as well as the County Council’s vision, values,
and strategic goals without carefully evaluating the impacts of any such standards and strategies
on the Critical Concerns to determine if they will aggravate or mitigate and provide solutions to
those Critical Concerns. All such standards and strategies and the Critical Concerns should
continually be evaluated given the dynamic nature of growth in and on the borders of the County.

The Summit County Manager, relevant staff as determined by the County Manager, and the
County Council should regularly assess the County’s moderate-income housing needs and seek to
articulate where such housing is most appropriate and for whom the need is greatest at any given
moment always taking into careful consideration the Critical Concerns (“Moderate-Income
Housing Assessment”). A priority of any such assessment should seek to identify if housing
challenges are creating significant labor shortages in critical areas such a law enforcement,
emergency medical services, education, doctors and nurses and other health care professionals,
and local government workforce. In addition, the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment should
examine the needs of long-term resident seniors seeking to age in place in the County as well as
the County’s tourism industry’s workforce. With respect to tourism workforce, any strategies
developed in this Chapter 7 should seek to require major employers to bear some of the burden
of providing employees with housing opportunities as well as reasonable wages that consider the
high housing costs in resort counties much like the difference in wages paid in rural Utah
compared to San Francisco, California.

External influences also need to be part of the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment, such as
whether nightly rentals are removing long-term housing from the available housing capacity with
a result of hollowing out formerly well-established neighborhoods, particularly outside of resort
cores. Such assessment should consider any moderate-income housing permitted, platted,
commenced and/or built since the prior Moderate-Income Housing Assessment. Careful
consideration of where to locate housing is a fundamental question the Moderate-income

Housing Assessment needs to examine in each instance with a focus on the Critical Concerns. For
example, building or incentivizing affordable housing in the Snyderville Basin for County
workforce that work primarily in County offices in Coalville requires commuting, which the
moderate-income housing plan should seek to reduce. In addition, approving a large ratio of
market rate housing to obtain a smaller ratio of affordable housing exacerbates the dearth of
affordable housing given the additional services and workers required to service the market rate
housing, and should be avoided.

The critical questions of each Moderate-Income Housing Assessment should include for whom,
ideal location(s), transit and transportation access, trails access, and access to services to reduce
commuting and car trips, as well an assessment of the state of each of the Critical Concerns.
Those preparing the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment need to include specific metrics that
are transparent, effective, and easy to understand that can be used to provide of positive or
negative impacts that may be used by the County to adjust the goals and strategies contained in
this Chapter 7.

With respect to all analyses and changes to land use regulations contained in this Chapter 7, the
County should carefully consider the positive and negative impacts on each of the Critical
Concerns to make sure any such changes are likely to reduce deficits identified in the Moderate-
Income Housing Assessment and do not result in unintended consequences that negatively
impact the Critical Concerns.

Moderate income housing is defined as: “Housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by
households with a gross household income equal to or less than 80% of the median gross
income for households of the same size in the county in which the housing is located.”
However, given that the median gross income for the County is substantially higher than the
national average, consideration should be given to requiring moderate-income housing that
is targeted to lower median gross income depending upon the intended solutions sought as
identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment.

GOAL: Provide moderate-income housing opportunities that address the moderate-income
housing needs identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment, as updated in
accordance with the Introduction of this Chapter. Due to already aggressive market rate
housing growth pressures, it is essential that moderate-income housing does not come as a
trade-off for additional market rate housing that may ultimately increase the moderate-
income housing deficit due to the additional impacts created by the market rate housing and
coincident infrastructure, services, and other needs that generate requirements for additional
workforce. The primary goal should be meaningful reductions in existing deficits identified in
the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment.

Nm

7.1 GOAL: Promote a mix of housing types and availability.

Policy 7.1.1: Periodically review and update the Housing Needs Assessment (technical
appendix) to ensure that housing needs are identified as they change over time.

Policy 7.1.2: Consider mechanisms to provide a realistic opportunity to meet estimated
housing needs within Eastern Summit County, including a variety of housing types and
affordability.

Policy 7.1.3: Incorporate the definition of “Middle Income Housing” in the Development
Code and other policy documents.

Policy 7.1.4: Examine any potential programs or partnerships with the Mountainlands
Association of Governments (MAG) for the creation of moderate-income housing
opportunities.

Policy 7.1.5: Encourage moderate income housing development close to existing
services and infrastructure.

Policy 7.1.6: Clarify the intention and development standards for seasonal dwelling units
in the Development Code.

GOAL 7.2: Consider incentives such as fee-waivers and increased density to encourage private
sector development of moderate-income housing.

Policy 7.2.1: Explore a Fee Deferral Program and/or other incentives for Deed-
Restricted ADUs.

Policy 7.2.2: Identify and utilize county general fund subsidies or other sources of
revenue to waive construction related fees that are otherwise generally imposed by
the county for the construction or rehabilitation of moderate-income housing (Utah
Code § 17-27a- 403(2)(b)ii(D)).

Implementation 7.2.2a: Within two years of the approval of the Summit County
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, the County Council should
amend the Development Code to make deed restricted moderate-income units
eligible for waivers from Building and Planning Department application and
permit fees. Ensure that the waivers apply only to moderate income units and

not to market rate units and/or lots in a development containing moderate
income units.

,

implementation 7.2.2b: Annually review, and amend as necessary, the Summit
County Transportation Impact Fee waiver for moderate income housing as set
forth in Summit County Code, Title 9, Chapter 2C.

GOAL 7.3: Ensure that housing is affordable to households earning 80% of the median
income for Eastern Summit County, not the median income as affected by the Snyderville
Basin and Park City.

Policy 7.3.1: Staff has adopted this as part of the 5-year housing needs assessment,
summit county shall include calculations based on median household income for
Eastern Summit County in addition to Area Median Family Income for Summit County

GOAL 7.4: Demonstrate implementation of any other program or strategy to address the
housing needs of residents of the county who earn less than 80% of the area median income,
including the dedication of a local funding source to moderate income housing or the
adoption of a land use ordinance that requires 10% or more of new residential development
in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate income housing (Utah Code § 17-27a-
403(2)(b)ii(W)).

Policy 7.4.1: Create or allow for, or incentivize, development of moderate-income
housing integrated within existing market rate housing development in Eastern Summit
County.

Implementation 7.4.1a: Within two years of the approval of the Summit County
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, the County Council should,
amend the Development Code to provide incentives for a developer who agrees
to include moderate income housing units in a project. Incentives could include,
but are not limited to, additional units as part of the Master Planned
Development Deed Restricted Open Space Land Calculation Process, or as a
negotiated component of the Village Overlay process.

Goal 7.5 Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, internal and or detached
accessory dwelling units in residential zones (Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(E)).

Policy 7.5.1: Ensure regulations related to internal or detached accessory dwelling units
in residential units are reviewed and clarified to reduce barriers to development.

implementation 7.5.1a: Within two years of the approval of the Summit County
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, amend the Development
Code to reduce regulations related to accessory dwelling units.

Implementation 7.5.2b: Within two years of the approval of the Summit County
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, amend the Development

Code to make accessory dwelling units an allowed use in the AG-2.5, AG-5, AG-
10, AG-20, AG-40, AG-80, VO, and C zones.

Implementation 7.5.2c: Within two years of the approval of the Summit County
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, begin to track ADUs
approved through the Summit County Building Department.

Policy 7.5.2: Clarify accessory dwelling unit regulations to ensure that fee waivers, or
other benefits apply only to deed-restricted long-term moderate-income housing units.

Goal 7.6: Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new developments
(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(J)).

Policy 7.6.1: Utilize opportunities with the Village Overlay (VO) and Commercial (c) to
encourage the development of moderate-income housing.

Implementation 7.6.1a: Within two years of the approval of the Summit County
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, amend Development Code
language in the Village Overlay (VO) and Commercial (C) zones to incentivize the
creation of moderate-income housing units. Incentives may include:

* increased building height
*" expedited building permit reviews
* building and planning department fee waivers

Implementation 7.6.2b: Within one year of the approval of the Summit County
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, amend the Development
Code to incentivize the creation of deed restricted affordable senior living
communities for residents that are 55 years old or older.

Goal 7.7: Demonstrate creation of, or participate participation in, a community land trust
program for moderate income housing (Utah Code § 17- 27a-403(2)(b)ii(M)).

Policy 7.7.1: Continue to provide support to local non-profit organizations in Summit
County and explore new ways to participate in the development of moderate-income
housing.

Implementation 7.7.1a: Within two years of the approval of the Summit County
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, study and implement the
creation of a Summit County Housing Authority.

Implementation 7.7.2b: Annually meet with local non-profit organizations who
support the creation of and intend to ensure the long-term affordability of

moderate- income housing to establish on-going cooperation and coordination
and to maintain public/private partnerships.

Implementation 7.7.3c: Within one year of the approval of the Summit County
Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of Utah, establish a stakeholder
committee comprised of local governments, community housing agencies, and
residents to establish numerical goals and associated milestones to track and
monitor progress of creating moderate income housing and to uncover
shortfalls.

Chapter 6.1

Moderate Income Housing Element

INTRODUCTION

Rather than being monolithic, moderate-income housing is a multifaceted challenge for
Summit County. It is tied closely to a variety of Snyderville Basin challenges including
extremely high median housing costs; traffic congestion and legacy transportation
issues; availability of sufficient local laborers; business challenges due to lack of
access to labor; an increasingly non-diverse community; a shrinking number of full-
time residents with long-term community and generational ties; increasing
environmental degradation due to increasing development pressures; concerns about
sustainability of air, land, and water natural resources; and the critical need to manage
and limit rapid growth in a County that seeks to preserve open spaces, agricultural and
cultural heritage (collectively, “Critical Concerns"). Accordingly, creating standards and
strategies concerning moderate-income housing in this Chapter would be incomplete,
ineffective, and potentially harmful to the vision and goals of this General Plan as well
as the County Council's vision, values, and strategic goals without carefully evaluating
the impacts of any such standards and strategies on the Critical Concerns to
determine if they will aggravate or mitigate and provide solutions to those Critical
Concerns. All such standards and strategies and the Critical Concerns should
continually be evaluated given the dynamic nature of growth in and on the borders of
the County.

The Summit County Manager, relevant staff as determined by the County Manager,
and the County Council should regularly assess the County’s moderate-income
housing needs and seek to articulate where such housing is most appropriate and for
whom the need is greatest at any given moment always taking into careful
consideration the Critical Concerns (“Moderate-Income Housing Assessment’). A
priority of any such assessment should seek to identify if housing challenges are
creating significant labor shortages in critical areas such as law enforcement,
emergency medical services, education, doctors and nurses and other health care
professionals, and local government workforce. In addition, the Moderate-Income
Housing Assessment should examine the needs of long-term resident seniors seeking
to age in place in the County, vulnerable populations, as well as the County's tourism
industry's workforce. With respect to tourism workforce, an y strategies developed in
this Chapter 6.1 should seek to require major employers to bear some of the burden of
providing employees with housing opportunities as well as reasonable wages that take
into account the high housing costs in resort counties much like the difference in
wages paid in rural Utah compared to San Francisco, California.

External influences also need to be part of the Moderate-income Housing Assessment,
such as whether nightly rentals are removing long-term housing from the available
housing capacity with a result of hollowing out formerly well-established
neighborhoods, particularly outside of resort cores. Such assessment should consider

any moderate-income housing permitted, platted, commenced and/or built since the
prior Moderate-Income Housing Assessment. Careful consideration of where to locate
housing is a fundamental question the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment needs
to examine in each instance with a focus on the Critical Concerns. For example,
building or incentivizing affordable housing in the Snyderville Basin for County
workforce that work primarily in County offices in Coalville requires commuting, which
the moderate-income housing plan should seek to reduce. In addition, approving a
large ratio of market rate housing to obtain a smaller ratio of affordable housing
exacerbates the dearth of affordable housing given the additional services and workers
required to service the market rate housing, and should be avoided.

The critical questions of each Moderate-Income Housing Assessment should include:
for whom, ideal location(s), transit and transportation access, trails access, and
access to services to reduce commuting and car trips, as well an assessment of the
state of each of the Critical Concerns. Those preparing the Moderate-Income
Housing Assessment need to include specific metrics that are transparent, effective,
and easy to understand that can be used to provide of positive or negative impacts

that may be used by the County to adjust the goals and strategies contained in this
Chapter 6.1.

With respect to any and all analyses and changes to land use regulations contained
in this Chapter 6.1, the County should carefully consider the positive and negative
impacts on each of the Critical Concerns to make sure any such changes are likely to
reduce deficits identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment and do not
result in unintended consequences that negatively impact the Critical Concerns.

Moderate income housing is defined as: “Housing occupied or reserved
for occupancy by households with a gross household income equal to
or less than 80% of the median gross income for households of the
same size in the county in which the housing is located.” However,
given that the median gross income for the County is substantially
higher than the national average, consideration should be given to
requiring moderate-income housing that is targeted to lower median
gross income depending upon the intended solutions sought as
identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment.

GOAL: Provide moderate-income housing opportunities that address the
moderate-income housing needs identified in the Moderate-income
Housing Assessment, as updated in accordance with the Introduction of
this Chapter. Due to already aggressive market rate housing growth
pressures, it is essential that moderate-income housing does not come
as a trade-off for additional market rate housing that may ultimately
increase the moderate-income housing deficit due to the additional
impacts created by the market rate housing and coincident
infrastructure, services, and other needs that generate requirements for
additional workforce. The primary goal should be meaningful reductions
in existing deficits identified in the Moderate-income Housing

to

Assessment.

OBJECTIVE A: Develop strategies to facilitate an adequate supply of
moderate-income housing to reduce the identified deficits of housing in
the Snyderville Basin for various moderate and low income groups
living, working, or desiring to work in the Snyderville Basin, all as
identified and prioritized in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment,
as updated, while minimizing negative impacts on the Critical Concerns.

The County shall measure demand and the County’s progress toward
meeting such demand through annual reporting, consistent with the
requirements of Utah law.

GOAL: Rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of
moderate income housing. (Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(A))

Policy 6.1: Identify and implement a wide range of strategies to
increase housing densities and diversity in appropriate locations.
Implementation measures are as follows:

Implementation Measure 6.1.1a: Annually review, and amend
as necessary, the Development Code moderate income
housing provisions relating to the Neighborhood Mixed Use
Zone, Town Center Zone, and Resort Center Zone as
necessary to meet the goals and strategies of this Chapter.

Implementation Measure 6.1.1b: Commence a study to
determine the suitability of using some or a portion of various
County owned properties for moderate income housing, within
two years of approval of the Moderate Income Housing Plan,
to meet specific needs and deficits identified in the Moderate-
Income Housing Assessment. Such study should take into
consideration the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment as
well as other important County needs and uses for such
properties. Properties found suitable and appropriate for
moderate income housing development should be considered
for moderate income housing to meet deficits identified in the
Moderate-Income Housing Assessment but in all instances
any study must make findings concerning the impacts on
Critical Concerns. No County property acquired as public open
space or on which conservation easements have been
granted shall be considered for the purposes contemplated

herein.

Implementation Measure 6.1.1¢: Annually review the current
mixed-use zoning and density to determine whether the Moderate-
Income Housing Assessment indicates that additional zones or

rezones for higher density or moderate income residential
development in commercial or mixed use zones, commercial
centers, or employment centers are required to achieve the
purposes of this Section 6.1.

Implementation Measure 6.1.1d: Annually, after the approval of
the Summit County Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of
Utah, the Planning Commission should:

1)Review the General Plan to identify, plan, and possibly
create additional neighborhood master planned
development and/or redevelopment areas, if and as
necessary, to relieve deficits identified in the Moderate-
Income Housing Assessment, as updated, in accordance
with this Chapter 6.1, and thereafter amend the General
Plan accordingly. Note that such review should take into
account such areas that the County has already identified in
the Snyderville Basin as well as in Eastern Summit County;
and

6.1.4.1 2): Review the Future Land Use Maps in
Chapter 9 of the General Plan to identify and define
specific densities that would be appropriate in mixed
use areas to facilitate the deficits identified in the
Moderate- Income Housing Assessment with careful
consideration of negative and positive impacts on the
Critical Concerns.

Implementation Measure 6.1.1e: Within two years of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, the Planning Commission should
prepare and submit to the County Council an analysis of the
benefits of creating a moderate income housing zone district
to address the deficits identified in the Moderate-Income
Housing Assessment, with careful consideration of negative
and positive impacts on the Critical Concerns as a critical part
of such analysis.

Policy 6.1a: Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income
residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones commercial
centers, or employment centers.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(F))

Implementation Measure 6.14.2: Upon completion of “Our Summit’, a
community visioning project, completed in 2024, the Planning Commission
will review and update, if necessary, the General Plan Future Land Use Maps
and identify specific rezone areas as well as opportunities to create additional

4

mixed use zones.

Implementation Measure 6.1.a.3: Continue to regularly review,
and amend as necessary, the comprehensive long range
Snyderville Basin Transportation Master Plan.

Policy 6.1b: Demonstrate implementation of any other program or
strategy to address the housing needs of residents of the county who
earn less than 80% of the area median income, including the dedication
of a local funding source to moderate income housing or the adoption of a
land use ordinance that requires 10% or more of new residential
development in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate income
housing. (Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(W))

Implementation Measure 6.1b.1: Annually review the Affordable
Housing chapter of the Snyderville Basin Development Code and
amend, if necessary, to ensure affordable housing best practices
are implemented. Maintain the requirement that all new residential
development be required to develop or ensure the development of
moderate income housing at a rate of twenty percent (20%) of the
units in a development. The moderate income housing obligation
shall continue to be met concurrently with the construction of
market rate units.

Policy 6.1c: Require commercial, industrial, and resort projects to
provide housing for a percentage of their projected workforce.

Policy 6.1d: Require a long-term commitment to affordability.

Policy 6.1e: Ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local
political subdivision for the purpose of combining resources to acquire
property for moderate income housing.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(T))

Implementation Measure 6.1e.1: Facilitate discussions with local
political subdivisions to enter into a joint agreement within two
years.

Implementation Measure 6.1e.2: Within two years, coordinate
with local political subdivisions to accurately assess regional
moderate income housing needs, including a regional employment

study.

Implementation Measure 6.1e.3: Annually, coordinate with local
political subdivisions in the developmentand implementation of
regional moderate income housing strategies.

Implementation Measure 6.1e.4: Within one year, coordinate with

local political subdivisions to identify local, state, and federal funding

sources to create moderate income housing through a regional
housing authority or other forms of cooperation.

Policy 6.1f:: Explore the creation of a Summit County Housing Authority
and/or regional housing authority.

implementation Measure 6.1f.1: Within one year, begin
discussions with the Summit County Council regarding the
creation of a Summit County Housing Authority and/or regional
housing authority.

Policy 6.1g: Incorporate the definition of “Middle Income Housing” in the
Development Code and other policy documents.

Policy 6.1h: Beginning in 2024, conduct a biennial review of Chapter 5,
Affordable Housing, Snyderville Basin Development Code and update
the County's inclusionary housing ordinance as necessary.

Policy 6.2: Develop and implement measures that hold developers of
moderate income housing strategies accountable for the implementation
of their strategies, actions, and results. Monitoring must be transparent
with clear, easily understood metrics that enable the developers, elected
officials, and the public to easily understand if and how progress is being
made in implementing the strategy.

Implementation Measure 6.2a: Require developers of
moderate income housing to file annual reports with reasonably
detailed criteria that reports the compliance with applicable deed
restrictions; create penalties for failure to comply with such deed
restrictions and related enforcement mechanisms.

implementation Measure 6.2b: Create land use regulations
that prohibit nightly rentals of any housing units that are created
using any moderate income housing incentives or pursuant to
land use regulations created, amended, or modified to facilitate
the creation of moderate income housing.

Implementation Measure 6.2c: Following receipt of the Annual
Moderate Income Housing Reporting Form, establish a
stakeholder committee that meets annually with the purpose of
adopting and monitoring specific measures to be used when
evaluating moderate income housing projects.

Implementation Measure 6.2d: Develop and implement a
public engagement program to communicate, educate, and
collaboratively problem solve issues related to creating

moderate income housing in appropriate areas.

Implementation Measure 6.2e: Annually report the County's
progress toward meeting the moderate income housing
demand as required by Utah law.

Implementation Measure 6.2f: Annually review the number
of moderate-income units entitled, permitted, and constructed
against the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment, as
updated.

Policy 6.3: Support a variety of hosing consisting of a balance of
types of housing, styles of housing, ownership category, unit sizes,
and a range of affordability.

Policy 6.4: Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new
developments.(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(J))

Implementation Measure 6.4a: Amend the Development Code,
within two years, to incentivize the creation of moderate income
housing units such as increased building height, reduced setbacks,
reduced parking standards, and expedited building permit reviews.

Implementation Measure 6.4b: Maintain the incentive
community benefit criteria for incentive zoning for deed restricted
moderate income housing in the Town Center and Resort Center
zone districts.

Implementation Measure 6.4c: Amend the Development Code,
within two years, to incentivize the creation of deed restricted
affordable senior living communities for residents that are 55 years
old or older.

Policy 6.5: Amend land use regulations to allow for single room

occupancy developments.
(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(1))

Implementation Measure 6.5a: Amend the Development Code in 2024 to
allow for the development of Single Room Occupancy (SRO) housing, group
homes, community housing, emergency shelter and transitional housing, and
supported living facilities for the elderly and persons with special housing
needs in residential zone districts, taking into consideration the proximity to
public transportation, shopping, medical services, and other essential support
services.

Policy 6.6: Allow the development of seasonal housing to address the needs of the

-

resort economy, through cooperation with current and future employes and housing
agencies in the area.

Policy 6.7: Demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community
land trust program for moderate income housing.
(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(M))

Implementation Measure 6.7a: Annually meet with local non-
profit organizations who support the creation of and intend to
ensure the long-term affordability of moderate income housing to
establish on-going cooperation and coordination and to maintain
public/private partnerships.

Implementation Measure 6.7b: Establish a stakeholder
committee, within one year, comprised of local governments,
community housing agencies, and residents to establish numerical
goals and associated milestones to track and monitor progress of
creating moderate income housing and to uncover shortfalls.

Policy 6.8:: Identify and utilize county general fund subsidies or other
sources of revenue to waive construction related fees that are otherwise
generally imposed by the County for the construction or rehabilitation of
moderateincome housing.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(D))

Implementation Measure 6.8a: Maintain, and annually review,
and amend as necessary, Development Code provisions regarding
fee waivers for moderate income housing units.

Implementation Measure 6.8b: Maintain, and annually review,
and amend as necessary, the fee in lieu of constructing moderate
income housing established in the Development Code.

Implementation Measure 6.8c: Amend the Development Code,
within one year, to allow fees in lieu that have been collected to
subsidize construction related fees for moderate income housing on

private property.

GOAL: Support strategies that allow persons with moderate and low
incomes to benefit from and fully participate in all aspects of
neighborhood and community life.

Policy 6.9: Encourage in-fill housing development in mixed use
areas that offer residents easy access to goods, services, jobs,
transportation, and recreation.

Policy 6.10: Encourage and incentivize the distribution of workforce
housing in the Snyderville Basin.

Policy 6.11: Create a housing and transit reinvestment zone (HTRZ)
pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part 6, Housing and Transit Reinvestment
Zone Act. (Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(Q))

Implementation Measure 6.11a: Hold community public hearings
to acquire input in the criteria that the County should consider in
selecting a HTRZ within one year.

Implementation Measure 6.11b: Amend the General Plan and
Development Code to codify HTRZ criteria and establish zones
where HTR2Zs are allowed within one year after the community
public hearings are closed.

Implementation Measure 6.11c: Establish a development permit
application process for projects in the HTRZ within one year after
the community public hearings are closed.

Policy 6.12: Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to,
internal or detached accessory dwelling units in residential zones. (Utah
Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(E))

Implementation Measure 6.12.1: Amend the Development Code in 2024 to
add a definition of Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit that is consistent with
State Code, and to modify regulations related to accessory dwelling units,
both internal and detached, to facilitate their creation, including the removal
of the minimum land size required for detached accessory dwelling units,
deed restricted for workforce/employee housing.

Policy 6.13: Amend the Development Code, within one year, to require
adequate bicycle parking requirements.

