 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN 
GENERAL PLAN 
Adopted by Ordinance 839  
June 17, 2015  
 
Planning Staff 
 
Pat Putt, Community Development Director 
Peter Barnes, Planning and Zoning Administrator 
Jennifer Strader, Senior Planner 
 
 
Snyderville Basin Planning 
Commission 
Mike Franklin, Chair 
Bea Peck, Vice-Chair 
Colin DeFord 
Greg Lawson 
Mike Barnes 
Canice Harte 
Summit County Council 
 
Kim Carson, Chair 
Roger Armstrong, Vice-Chair 
David Ure 
Chris Robinson 
Claudia McMullin
Chuck Klingenstein 
 
 
 
 
 
      
   
1 
 
SNYDERVILLE BASIN 
GENERAL PLAN 
Contents 
Chapters           
1. Vision and Background          
 
2. Land Use            
 
3. Open Space           
 
4. Recreation           
 
5. Sustainability, Cultural and Natural Resources  
      
6. Housing           
 
7. Services and Facilities         
 
8. Transportation          
 
9. Neighborhoods          
  
- Bitner           
- Canyons           
- Central Basin           
- East Basin          
- Highland Estates          
- Jeremy Ranch/Pinebrook        
- Kimball Junction          
- North Mountain          
- Old Ranch Road          
- Quinn’s Junction          
- Rasmussen          
- Silver Creek          
- The Summit          
- Trailside           
- Utah Olympic Park         
- West Mountain         
 
1 
 
Chapter 1 
Vision and Background  
MISSION STATEMENT  
 
Summit County (the “County”) hereby establishes the mission of the General Plan (“the 
Plan”) for the Snyderville Basin (the “Basin”) as follows: “to preserve natural open space 
and vistas, prevent suburban sprawl, and promote our mountain resort community” (the 
“Mission”).  This Mission will be accomplished through well managed growth that 
clusters density into designated mixed use areas, protects the natural environment, and 
supports recreation.  The result will allow for a community and an economy that are 
diverse, cohesive, and sustainable. 
 
ROLES OF THE GENERAL PLAN AND DEVELOPMENT CODE 
 
The growth management plan for the Basin consists of this Plan and Snyderville Basin 
Development Code (the “Code”). The purpose of this Plan is to set forth the vision, 
mission, character, goals, objectives, and policies for the Basin. This Plan is an advisory 
document. The Code is the regulatory document that contains the rules and regulations for 
development that implements this Plan. The Code ensures the viability of this Plan by 
requiring that development applications are generally consistent with the spirit of this Plan. 
Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used herein have the meanings 
assigned to them in the Code.  
 
GOALS 
 
In concert with the community vision and in support of the Mission, the goals of the 
2014 update to the Plan are to promote the following: 
 
• Sustainability, both in terms of development and the environment 
• Quality growth and economic development that provides a positive contribution to 
the community’s quality of life and the mountain resort economy 
• Preservation of open space, view corridors and scenic mountainsides 
• Preservation of Critical Lands (as defined in Section 10-4-3 of the Code) natural 
resources and the environment, including clean air and water 
• Provide for interconnectivity and traffic mitigation through a variety of creative 
alternatives for all modes of transportation 
• Provision and inclusion of affordable housing 
• Healthy lifestyles based on resort and year round recreational opportunities 
compatible with a resort/residential community 
• Preservation, recognition, and adaptive reuse of culturally significant structures, 
sites, and uses 
 
BACKGROUND 
In mid-2009, the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission (the “Planning Commission”) 
began the process of reviewing the 2004 General Plan for updates, which was last 
 
2 
 
completed in 1998.  The intent of this update is to make this Plan a more current and 
understandable document for the public and the Planning Commission as it guides 
future growth.   
 
As part of this update, the Planning Commission sought to clarify the intent of the Plan, 
and ensure that the policies and implementation mechanisms of the Plan and Code 
would truly help meet the community priorities.  
 
Community involvement has been a central part of the update process. In 2009, a 
subcommittee of the Planning Commission was formed to begin work on initial edits to 
the Plan.  Based on their feedback, in April of 2010, the Planning Commission held two 
community open houses and conducted a survey.  In the summer of 2011, the Planning 
Commission held workshops with each neighborhood planning area. Public hearings 
were held on each element of the Plan in 2011, and more work sessions and hearings 
were held in 2012. On February 26, 2014, the Summit County Council approved Phase 
I of the Plan. A subcommittee of the Planning Commission was then formed to begin 
work on Phase II of the Plan.  
 
From these open houses and workshops, the Planning Commission identified many 
community priorities and substantially reworked the mission statement to better reflect 
these priorities.   
 
This Plan has also been substantially reformatted. While core principles remain in place, 
the format has been changed and the language simplified to communicate clear intent. 
Regulatory language remaining from the 1998 Plan has been removed and placed in 
the Code where appropriate.  Policies have been divided into chapters and each 
chapter is based on a topic such as the environment, cultural and natural resources, 
and open space. The redesign is intended to make the Plan easier to follow and more 
effective to implement.  
 
COMMUNITY VISION 
 
Over 200 Basin residents participated in the 2010 open houses and hundreds more at 
the 2011 Neighborhood workshops. The many activities included a prioritization 
exercise where the public was asked to rank various topics, such as open space, 
recreation, and walkability. Based on that exercise, the Planning Commission learned 
that the issues, identified from most important to least important, were: 
 
1. Open Space  
2. Recreation  
3. Walkability  
4. Wildlife  
5. Less Density 
6. Critical Land Protection 
7. Water Conservation 
8. Affordable Housing 
9. Mass Transit 
10. Traffic 
11. Natural Resource Preservation 
 
3 
 
12. Local Economy 
13. Recycling/Compost 
14. Local Food 
15. Energy Efficiency 
16. Mixed Use Development 
17. Growth 
18. Green Building/Construction 
  
MOVING FORWARD 
 
State government forecasts for population growth in the County, and the Basin in 
particular, clearly demonstrate a need to prepare by the Summit County Council (the 
“County Council”) and the Planning Commission. This Plan and Code, as amended, are 
designed to better encourage economic growth and diversification and to manage 
development and redevelopment in a manner that will preserve and enhance the 
Basin's quality of life, and in conformity with Section 17-27a-102 (a) of the Utah State 
Code which sets forth the standards for land use management:  
 
(a) The purposes of this chapter are to provide for the health, safety, and welfare, 
and promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order, comfort, 
convenience, and aesthetics of each county and its present and future 
inhabitants and businesses, to protect the tax base, to secure economy in 
governmental expenditures, to foster the state's agricultural and other industries, 
to protect both urban and nonurban development, to protect and ensure access 
to sunlight for solar energy devices, to provide fundamental fairness in land use 
regulation, and to protect property values. 
 
This Plan reflects coordinated regional land use planning by and among the County for 
Basin and Eastern Summit County and Park City Municipal in preparation for 
anticipated growth. 
 
The residents of the Basin agree that open space in the mountain setting of the Basin 
provides aesthetic value, recreational opportunities, wildlife management and 
protection, and promotes an amenity-rich community. Those amenities include: 
 
• Large Tracts of Contiguous Open Space 
• Recreation 
• Interconnected Trail Systems (Walkability) 
• Wildlife Preservation 
• Density in Town and Resort Centers 
• Sensitive Lands Protections 
• Water Conservation 
• Affordable Housing 
• Mass Transit 
• Traffic and Transportation Management 
• Natural Resource Preservation 
• Local Economy Protection and Enhancement 
 
 
4 
 
These core values define the purpose for land use planning and regulation to preserve 
and enhance the Basin. This Plan embraces and protects the mountain resort economy 
and character of the Basin by discouraging, and to the extent possible prohibiting, certain 
suburban development patterns which erode the unique character of the Basin. To that 
end, suburban development patterns in the Basin should be mountain resort in nature, 
with low densities of one unit per one hundred and twenty (120) acres, one unit per forty 
(40) acres, one unit per thirty (30) acres, one unit per twenty (20) acres,  and one unit per 
ten (10) acres in certain instances. However, certain parcels of land may have previously 
approved and vested development entitlements by virtue of pre-existing development 
agreements, consent agreements, or settlement agreements. These agreements may 
have resulted in densities that are higher than the base densities described above.  
 
MIXED USE AREAS 
This Plan guides the growth and economic development of the Basin to occur in harmony 
with the unique aesthetic qualities of a mountain environment. Town Centers and Resort 
Centers are permitted in designated locations that are intended as areas where density 
should be concentrated. Each type of center serves a specific function as further stated in 
the Plan. The character of these centers, particularly the Town Centers, should be 
designed to reflect both traditional and new patterns in urban communities and phased to 
ensure proper growth and concurrency management.  
 
These mixed use areas should benefit, not detract from, the general health, safety and 
welfare of the entire community. A variety of smart growth strategies to locate 
development in the most suitable locations should be considered. These strategies may 
include the use of density transfers, land acquisitions, conservation easements, and 
clustered development principles. 
   
The Basin’s changing demographics have created an economy no longer solely 
dependent on seasonal mountain resort business. Social and economic diversity and its 
associated demands are encouraged for the long term health of the Basin. Accordingly, 
this Plan and Code form a foundation for the complex, long range use of land through 
managed growth--balanced between competing demands of residential and commercial 
interests and preservation of ample and continuous natural areas and open spaces. 
 
SUSTAINABILITY 
The long term success of the Snyderville Basin will depend largely on future 
sustainability efforts. This Plan addresses sustainability throughout each Chapter, and 
more specifically in Chapter 5. Sustainability Goals, Objectives, and Policies in each 
Chapter are identified with this symbol:  
 
ANNUAL REVIEW 
This Plan will be reviewed on an annual basis.   
 
5 
 
Chapter 2 
Land Use 
GOAL: Promote sustainable Land Use Planning Principles that preserve Critical 
Lands, maintain neighborhood character, protect the economic base, prevent 
sprawl, and provide efficient delivery of services.  
OBJECTIVE A: Encourage the creation of highly-livable neighborhoods and mixed use 
areas that are connected by open spaces and multi-modal transportation systems.  
 
Policy 2.1: Identify, plan, and create neighborhood master planned specific 
areas where development/redevelopment should occur. These designated areas 
should be rezoned accordingly. 
 
Policy 2.2: Identify specific areas where development should not occur and zone 
it accordingly. 
 
Policy 2.3: Do not approve any new entitlements beyond those permitted by the 
Development Code until such time that existing entitlements are significantly 
exhausted, unless the County legislative body first determines that: 
 
a. a compelling countervailing public interest, specifically identified in 
the General Plan exists and cannot be reasonably satisfied without 
expanding one or more entitlement(s); 
 
b. such new entitlement(s) do not simply result in an incidental benefit 
to the public interest, but rather such entitlement(s) are intended 
primarily to promote such compelling countervailing public interest; 
and 
 
c. any new entitlement(s) are consistent with the Neighborhood 
Planning Area Plans and the Snyderville Basin General Plan’s 
Future Land Use Maps, as amended. 
 
Policy 2.4: Work with local, state, and federal agencies to create a multi-modal 
transportation network to support desired development patterns. The Snyderville 
Basin will be defined by its abundant open spaces, world-class resort amenities, 
and livable neighborhoods and not an expansive highway system. 
 
OBJECTIVE B: Incentivize compact, dense, and nodal development, defined by 
abundant and contiguous open spaces, as well as a predictable process to achieve this 
goal through clear regulations in the Snyderville Basin Development Code. 
 
Policy 2.5: Eliminate advisory language from the Code and include clear, 
predictable, and measurable standards.  
 

 
6 
 
Policy 2.6: Explore future smart growth strategies, which may include the use of 
density transfers, land acquisitions, conservation easements, and clustered 
development principles. Each strategy should include clear performance 
standards and design flexibility that is targeted to specific mixed use areas 
through future Code amendments 
 
Policy 2.7: Establish reasonable development design principles to promote a 
quality built environment worth living in, working in, and/or visiting. 
 
Policy 2.8: Discourage strip commercial development.   
 
OBJECTIVE C: Create Zoning Districts that match existing development and/or 
promote desired future development.  
 
Policy 2.9: Create residential zoning district to match neighborhoods that do not 
currently comply with existing Rural Residential zoning development standards 
without creating more entitlements.   
 
Policy 2.10: Create a land use table for the current Town Center zoning district 
or rezone these development areas to a predictable land-use designation. 
 
Policy 2.11: Create zoning district designations for development with land uses 
regulated by current or expired Development Agreements.  
 
Policy 2.12: Maintain the residential character of existing residential 
neighborhoods.   
 
Policy 2.13: Create new mixed-use, inclusive neighborhoods within existing 
development areas and/or future designated redevelopment areas.  
 
Policy 2.14: Identify specific nodes where development and/or redevelopment 
will be encouraged and zone these areas accordingly. 
 
Policy 2.15: Identify specific areas where development is discouraged. 
 
OBJECTIVE D: Ensure future development is well designed and appropriately 
located.  
 
Policy 2.16: Future commercial developments should be located in existing 
commercial areas, resort centers, town centers, mixed use areas, or future 
designated redevelopment nodes.  
 
Policy 2.17: Within defined mixed use areas, a range of uses should be 
supported that are appropriate for each individual location and neighborhood, 
and may include small scale retail, offices, business and personal services, 
schools, and parks designed to meet the needs of the neighborhood.  
 
Policy 2.18: Identify specific areas where mixed use areas may be appropriate in 
order to preserve natural open spaces and vistas, prevent urban sprawl, and 
 
7 
 
promote the mountain resort community through managed growth. These areas 
should contain an appropriate mix of residential and commercial development as 
well as recreational opportunities that provide connections to existing and future 
community trails and transit facilities.  
 
Policy 2.19: Any land use proposal, including, but not limited to the use of 
density transfers, that has the potential to significantly impact the existing 
neighborhood character should be analyzed within the context of the 
neighborhood planning area. This may result in the creation of a neighborhood 
master plan or require modifications to an existing master plan.  
 
Policy 2.20: Support the creation of project specific and neighborhood master 
plans in order to ensure well connected and compatible development within a 
neighborhood or area.  
 
Policy 2.21: Encourage locally based and neighborhood commercial businesses.  
 
Policy 2.22: Review regional commercial uses for their impacts to existing 
businesses, traffic/parking impacts, and architectural design. Regional 
commercial uses should be limited to existing commercial development areas 
and/or future designated redevelopment nodes.  
 
Policy 2.23: Identify appropriate areas for light industrial/service commercial 
activities to meet the needs of local businesses and development activities. Light 
industrial/service commercial activities should be discouraged along scenic 
corridors or at community gateways.  
 
Policy 2.24: Work to develop commercial areas to reduce the impact of: 
inappropriate site layout practices, large parking lot surface, artificial lighting, 
non-conforming signs, and building design. 
 
Policy 2.25: Strongly discourage roadside or strip commercial development 
where there is continuous or intermittent linear development generally one store 
deep, one or more access points for separate properties and with highly visible 
parking located between the road and the building.  
 
Policy 2.26: Discourage large scale commercial “one story” structures.  
 
Policy 2.27: Encourage sustainable practices and predicable standards for 
commercial landscaping, lighting, signage, and parking.  
 
OBJECTIVE E: Prevent the creation of new suburban low-density, dispersed (i.e. 
non-clustered) residential development.  
 
Policy 2.28: New residential developments should be compact, connected, and 
incorporated whenever possible into mixed use/transit friendly areas.  
 
Policy 2.29: New residential development should be located within existing 
and/or designated future redevelopment areas.   

 
8 
 
 
OBJECTIVE F: Use public infrastructure to direct development to desired growth 
areas.  
  
Policy 2.30: All new development should utilize public water and sewer systems 
and be accessed by public roads and connected by multimodal transit systems. 
 
Policy 2.31: All public infrastructure should be planned to direct future growth to 
existing development areas and/or future designated redevelopment nodes.  
 
Policy 2.32: Work to ensure that all local policy documents relating to water, 
sewer, and road infrastructure are consistent with the objectives of this Plan.  
 
OBJECTIVE G: Ensure the preservation of open space.   
 
 Policy 2.33: Map significant open space and Critical Lands.  
 
Policy 2.34: Work with landowners and non-profit agencies to protect open lands 
for the purposes of preserving scenic viewsheds, preventing the fragmentation of 
open lands, preserving important wildlife habitat, protecting watersheds, 
providing significant buffers between developed areas, and protecting Critical 
Lands.  
 
Policy 2.35: Use open space to actively connect communities.  
 
Policy 2.36: Maintain extremely low density rural zoning for remote areas.  
 
Policy 2.37: Review the potential of creating open-space zoning districts for 
conservation, wildlife, and/or public recreation purposes.  
 
Policy 2.38: Review new development for potential environmental impacts and 
to demonstrate sensitivity to the natural environment including preservation of 
viewsheds, trees and native vegetation, water quality, and wildlife corridors.  
 
OBJECTIVE H: Preserve the Snyderville Basin’s working farms and ranches, 
remaining unfragmented landscapes.  
 
Policy 2.39: Work with property owners to maintain working farms and ranches 
as a viable industry. 
 
OBEJCTIVE I: Ensure a range of housing alternatives in self-contained, well-
designed communities.  
 
 Policy 2.40: Support a variety of housing types.  
 
Policy 2.41: Support the development of viable opportunities for affordable 
housing and home ownership.  
 

 
9 
 
Policy 2.42: Encourage the development/redevelopment of mixed use 
neighborhoods designed to protect the natural environment and connect to 
community open spaces.  
 
Policy 2.43: Incorporate integrated conservation design in order to preserve 
portions of the property for shared public open space through regulations in the 
Development Code. 
 
Policy 2.44: Encourage alternatives to the conventional pattern of low-density 
dispersed single-family lot subdivisions for example by:  
 
a. allowing the same number of units as allowed by current zoning, 
but in a more dense development on a portion of the property, or by 
 
b. strategic sales of small portions of the overall property in order to 
retain ranching, farming, or public open space on the remainder of 
the lands.  
 
OBJECTIVE J: Improve or eliminate the negative impacts of legal non-conforming 
uses.  
 
Policy 2.45: Support the elimination or improvement of non-conforming uses in 
order to bring properties into conformance and to eliminate land use conflicts.  
 
Policy 2.46: Support the conversion of non-conforming uses to legal uses or to 
other uses that have reduced impacts.  
 
OBJECTIVE K: Minimize the impacts of local and/or regional utility systems and 
related facilities on the environment and community character.  
 
Policy 2.47: Review all proposed transmission lines, pipelines, communication 
towers, landfills, and truck hauling routes to minimize the potential impacts on 
local neighborhoods, the environment, open space, and wildlife corridors. 
 
OBJECTIVE L: Support programs that encourage the reduction of solid waste and 
ensure solid waste is managed in a manner that minimizes environmental 
impacts.  
 
 Policy 2.48: Work closely with landowners and other applicable agencies to 
implement strategies that encourage the diversion of waste from local landfills. 
 
 Policy 2.49: Review all proposed development for impacts created by the 
generation of solid waste and ensure they are providing necessary and reliable 
solid waste management facilities.  
 Policy 2.50: Support increased education and communication with landowners 
and business owners regarding solid waste impacts and recycling benefits.  
 

 
10 
 
 Policy 2.51: Reevaluate and strengthen programs that relate to construction 
waste and commercial recycling. 
  
  
 
11 
 
Chapter 3 
Open Space  
GOAL: Open Space is the backbone of the Snyderville Basin economy. To the 
extent possible, preserve open space in the Basin that contains Critical Lands 
and recreational, cultural, and scenic spaces.  Preservation of these lands and 
connections between them is necessary in order to support a healthy 
environment and to retain the sense of place, quality of life, and the economic 
success of the resort economy.  
 
In order to best achieve this goal, open space has been categorized into the following 
types based on specific attributes. Parcels may contain attributes of one or more 
categories of open space and each category may contain one or more of the attributes 
listed. 
 
1. Pristine Open Space 
 
a. Critical for environmental quality and ecological function, such as drinking 
water sources, watershed, and wildlife habitat and/or corridors.   
b. Strictly limited development, use, access, or disturbance 
c. Undisturbed, natural environment and scenic values are the priorities.  
 d. Any access allowed for passive recreation should be very limited and should 
be non-motorized single-track trails solely for the purpose of connecting trail 
spines and corridors, subject to an approved trails plan.   
e. May be contiguous to other open spaces. 
f. Is of sufficient size to achieve the purposes for which it is being protected. 
f. An example is the USU Swaner Nature Preserve.  
  
2. Managed-Recreational Open Space 
 
a. May include Critical Lands.   
b. Adjacent to or in close proximity to other open space.  
c. Supports and is managed for passive recreation with public access with non-
motorized trails and trailheads and paved transportation trails.  
d. Examples include the Summit Park Forest Legacy open space, Hi Ute’s 
Three Mile Canyon, Toll Canyon, and Quarry Mountain. 
 
3.  Active Spaces:  
 
a. Spaces that are used more intensively than Managed-Recreational Open 
Space. 
b. Easily accessible land that offers both passive and active recreational 
opportunities.  
c. Fulfill recreational needs and services such as sports fields, non-motorized 
trails, trailheads, parks and facilities, bike parks, tennis courts, amphitheaters, 
golf courses, and ski trails.   

 
12 
 
d. Land suitable for civic needs that serve the public, such as cemeteries and 
fairground facilities.    
e. Examples include Willow Creek Park, Matt Knoop Memorial Park, and 
Trailside Park. 
 
4. Internal Public Spaces:  
 
a. Located in highly accessible public spaces for the purpose of providing 
areas for people to rest, gather, and socialize.   
b. Support features such as tables, benches, trash/recycling receptacles, 
bike racks, drinking fountains, public art, and restrooms where 
appropriate.   
c. Generally fragmented and contiguity to other open spaces is not a priority.  
d. Examples include Newpark Sun Calendar Plaza, pocket parks, and 
neighborhood playgrounds. 
 
           
 
 
 
 
    
  
Pristine Open Space: 
Swaner Nature Preserve 
Managed-Recreational Open Space: 
Summit Park Forest Legacy 
Active Open Space: 
Willow Creek Park 
Internal Public Space: 
Newpark Sun Calendar Plaza 
 
13 
 
OBJECTIVE A: Open space should be maintained and preserved according to its 
classification.  
 
Policy 3.1: Conservation easements, deed restrictions, trail easements, and/or 
plat notes should be recorded confirming the purpose of the land and identifying 
restrictions.  
 
Policy 3.2: Appropriate ownership and management entity, either public or 
private, should be determined at time of preservation. 
 
a. When open space lands benefit only a single development with limited to 
no public access, those lands should remain under private ownership. 
 
b. When open space lands are preserved that benefit the greater community 
and allow for greater public access and civic needs, those should be 
owned and managed by a public entity. 
 
Policy 3.3: Management plans and regular maintenance needs should be 
implemented to ensure that the land’s conservation values are maintained.  
 
  a. Open spaces should have a management plan that identifies operations 
and maintenance needs, including noxious weed control, on the property 
to ensure that its purposes are fulfilled.  
 
  b. Management of Pristine Open Spaces should minimize the use of 
chemical treatments, machinery, and vehicles in an effort to avoid impacts 
on the open space, water quality, and air quality, and minimizes noise.   
 
Policy 3.4: Concurrency policies should be in place for public entities to assure 
community recreation facilities and open spaces have adequate funding to 
address the impacts of future growth.  
 
 a. Implementation of this policy should require that fees be collected in order 
to ensure that both residential and commercial projects contribute their 
proportional share.  
 
OBJECTIVE B: Mechanisms, programs, and strategies should be in place to preserve 
lands as open space.   
 
Policy 3.5: The County has established the Basin Open Space Advisory 
Committee or “BOSAC” as a formal committee, created for the purpose of 
advising and providing input to the County Manager and County Council 
regarding the creation, preservation, and identification of open space within the 
Basin.  The mission statement of the BOSAC is hereby incorporated by 
reference. BOSAC should also: 
 
 a. Establish evaluation criteria for the acquisition of open space, pursuant to 
and consistent with the open space and other policies set forth in this and 
other chapters of the Plan.  

 
14 
 
 
 b. Assist in identifying, prioritizing, and making recommendations regarding 
priority open space; 
 
 c. Recommend the acquisition of development rights from properties 
considered important to the community for open space purposes. 
  
Policy 3.6: The County should develop on-going revenue sources earmarked for 
open space preservation including partnership with the Snyderville Basin Special 
Recreation District in providing opportunities for voter authorization of bond funds 
and concurrency programs.  
 
Policy 3.7: The County should establish formal mechanisms for holding and 
transferring land and development rights from high priority open space areas. 
  
Policy 3.8:  The County should consider amending the zoning map and Code to 
support growth and development in identified mixed use areas to alleviate 
development pressure on land that meets the descriptions of open space. 
 
Policy 3.9:  The County should accept cash-in-lieu of open space where such 
funds can be more appropriately used to purchase development rights or open 
space at a more appropriate or significant location.  
 
Policy 3.10: The County should establish and maintain cooperative strategies 
with local land trusts and, when possible, partner with other public, non-profit and 
private entities and/or other qualified land conservation groups to achieve the 
preservation of priority open spaces. 
 
OBJECTIVE C: An adequate amount of open space should be preserved for all new 
developments and should be identified during the development review process. BOSAC 
may or may not be asked to advise on such open space parcels. 
  
Policy 3.11:  Critical Lands may be counted towards the minimum required open 
space.  
 
Policy 3.12: While development should meet the open space requirements, it 
may be appropriate in large lot developments to allow limited open space to be 
incorporated into individual lots, provided that the open space is outside of 
fenced areas and is contiguous to Pristine or Managed-Recreational open space.    
 
Policy 3.13: Open space that is required to be set aside in each development 
should, whenever possible, be contiguous to adjacent open space and protect 
hillsides and natural resources.  
  

 
15 
 
Chapter 4 
Recreation and Trails  
GOAL: Promote a healthy lifestyle for residents and visitors through existing and 
new recreational opportunities and trail connections to meet the broad range of 
recreation needs of Basin residents and visitors.   
 
OBJECTIVE A:  Create a system of community parks, trails, and recreation facilities to 
service the entire population and visitors by working in conjunction with the Snyderville 
Basin Special Recreation District (“Basin Recreation”), a special service district of the 
County established for the purpose of providing public recreation facilities and services 
for residents of the Basin, their guests, businesses, and our resort visitors, including 
community parks, non-motorized community trails, recreational open space and public 
recreation facilities. 
 
Policy 4.1: Community parks, trails and recreation facilities should be of 
sufficient size and located throughout the Basin in a manner that ties the 
neighborhoods together and promotes the overall sense of community and 
recreation family.  
 
Policy 4.2: Ensure that recreation opportunities in the Basin grow in parallel with 
future growth.  
 
Policy 4.3: Continue to seek opportunities for public parks, recreational open 
spaces, trails and recreation facilities.   
 
Policy 4.4: Anticipate the need for future public park and recreation system 
improvements through a continuing review of existing inventory, analysis, and 
evaluation of resources. 
 
Policy 4.5: Assess resident needs based on periodic community interest and 
opinion surveys conducted by Basin Recreation to help determine priorities for 
recreation facilities and track trends. 
 
Policy 4.6: Foster regional recreational planning and interagency cooperation of 
public entities to collaborate on long term capital facility planning goals and 
development of joint use facilities to efficiently serve the taxpayers of the greater 
Park City community. 
 
Policy 4.7: Basin Recreation has established “Mountain Recreation Standards” 
for recreation based on population. The Mountain Recreation standards are 
intended to provide a set of tools to establish clear direction for the amount, type 
and balance of recreation facilities to meet the needs of a growing population.   
 
 
16 
 
Policy 4.8: Work toward achieving an effective balance of Managed-
Recreational Open Space preservation while meeting the need for active park 
space to include developed sports fields and support buildings. 
 
Policy 4.9: The Snyderville Basin Community-Wide Trails Master Plan, as 
amended (the “Trails Master Plan”), provides detailed trail corridor mapping that 
identifies critical linkages in the Basin and connections to boundary trails. The 
intent of the Trails Master Plan is to ensure a public corridor to connect 
neighborhoods and activity centers, such as parks, schools, community facilities, 
and commercial areas, and to provide access to open areas, ridgelines, and 
public lands. 
  
Policy 4.10: The Basin Recreation’s Capital Facilities Plan, as amended, 
includes plans for future recreation facilities, recreation facilities improvements, 
and important amenities for recreation in the Basin.   
  
Policy 4.11: Secure public trail easements in an effort to carry out the community 
vision, implement the Trails Master Plan, and create a complete network of 
interconnected multi-use non-motorized trails in cooperation with other public and 
private entities.  
 
Policy 4.12: Ensure that trails connect with Park City Municipal’s trail system and 
other local and regional trails to create a comprehensive County trails plan. Trails 
should be considered as having both a transportation and non-motorized 
recreation function.  
 
Policy 4.13: Trail system improvements should be designed with the intent to 
protect and enhance environmentally sensitive areas.  
 
Policy 4.14: Ensure adequate capacity is provided at trailheads located 
throughout the Basin to provide points of staging and support facilities to serve 
multiple user groups.   
 
OBJECTIVE B: Encourage neighborhood recreation facilities that are intended to serve 
neighborhoods or individual developments.  These facilities should be designed to 
enhance a neighborhood as a part of good project design and to provide a higher 
quality of life for the residents.  Neighborhood facilities are not intended to attract 
persons from the community as a whole, but rather function as public gathering places 
within the neighborhood.  
 
Policy 4.15: Development should provide for the reasonable recreational needs of 
residents within a development project, which may include construction of 
neighborhood parks, internal trail systems, or other recreation facilities. 
 
Policy 4.16: Neighborhood parks, trails and/or recreation facilities are most 
appropriately developed and managed by individual developers or 
neighborhood/homeowner associations. These spaces should be easily accessible 
and help strengthen the identity of the neighborhood. 
 

 
17 
 
Policy 4.17: The Code should establish reasonable standards for parks and 
recreational amenities specifically designed to serve the neighborhood or project 
level demand.   
 
Policy 4.18: Where possible, internal neighborhood trails should connect to the 
Basin’s community-wide public trails system as described in the Trails Master Plan 
(the “Community-Wide Trail System”).  
 
Policy 4.19: Where appropriate, ensure that adequate capacity is provided at 
trailheads within the development project or neighborhood to provide points of 
staging and support facilities to serve multiple user groups.  Trailheads within a 
development project or neighborhood that provide access to the Community-Wide 
Trail System may be accepted for dedication by Basin Recreation.  
 
OBEJCTIVE C: Recognize the desirability of multiple types of recreational services to 
meet the broad range of health, wellness and leisure interests of Basin residents and 
visitors. Several different types of opportunities exist to meet this need.  
 
Policy 4.20: Private commercial ventures are an important aspect of providing 
recreation services for residents and visitors of the Basin. They typically operate 
as independent businesses that provide facilities, amenities and programs. Ski 
and golf resorts, commercial outfitters and sports, health, wellness and fitness 
clubs fall into this category. 
 
Policy 4.21: Non-profit recreation entities are organizations established for the 
purpose of developing recreation amenities and/or providing programs that 
complement the purpose and goals of public and private recreation sectors. Utah 
Athletic Foundation and National Ability Center are examples of these entities. 
 
OBJECTIVE D:  The County recognizes the importance of the natural resources within 
the Basin and the surrounding areas and desires to preserve and maintain access to 
these scenic areas.  
 
Policy 4.22: Preserve public access to riparian corridors and fishable streams, 
including East Canyon Creek and Silver Creek Drainage (post remediation), for 
fishing, bird watching, wildlife viewing, and other passive recreational interests. 
 
a. These stream corridors are an important linear community parkway and all 
development should be sensitively sighted to protect this natural resource.  
 
b. New development should maintain public access to these corridors.  
Enhancement to these critical areas and habitats is encouraged. 
  
Policy 4.23: Encourage and obtain access to the forest lands to promote hiking, 
mountain biking, bird watching, wildlife viewing and other similar non-motorized 
activities. 
 

 
18 
 
a. All new development adjacent to these areas should ensure appropriate 
access to the back country through trail connections and open space view 
corridors. 
 
b. Provide adequate trailheads and parking to facilitate resident and visitor 
access to these backcountry areas.  
 
Policy 4.24: Promote and encourage horseback riding and other equestrian 
uses.  Equestrian trails should be designed to avoid “land locking” horse owners 
and provide them with trail access to appropriate areas.  
 
Policy 4.25: Winter recreational opportunities, such as Nordic skiing, snow 
shoeing, dog sledding, and the like should be encouraged.  Care should be taken 
to ensure that these activities are located sensitively, avoiding sensitive wildlife 
habitat. 
 
19 
 
Chapter 5 
Sustainability, Cultural and Natural Resources 
GOAL: Identify cultural and natural resources and ensure that all development 
undertaken is compatible with and in harmony with the surrounding mountain 
and resort environment while maintaining ecological balance and protecting the 
scenic and historic qualities of the Basin as well as the economic base. 
 
 
 
OBJECTIVE A: Identify and recognize amenities important to the community heritage of 
the Basin and work to preserve such amenities to the greatest extent possible.  
 
The County played an important role in the settlement of Utah and the West as a whole, 
with prominent westward trails, early settlements, and agricultural operations forming 
the foundation of the Basin. Therefore, heritage amenities are defined as:  
 
 a. Sites where culturally significant historic events occurred 
 
  b. Sites important to culturally significant people in history 
 
  c. Historic trails, paths, and other transportation connections and corridors  
 
  d. Structures more than 50 years old 
 
  e. Past and present agricultural operations  
 
Policy 5.1: Recognize agricultural operations as a significant and important use 
of the land and protect the rights of those uses.  
 
Policy 5.2: A survey should be conducted to identify heritage amenities. 
Identified amenities should be of high priority for preservation through relocation, 
adaptive reuse, preservation in place, facade easements, conservation 
easements, or other methods.   
 

 
20 
 
Policy 5.3: Heritage Amenities and Cultural Arts Plan:  Adopt a 
comprehensive Heritage Amenities and Cultural Arts Plan (the “Heritage Plan”) in 
the Basin.  This Heritage Plan should provide specific provisions for the type, 
amount, and manner in which public art or heritage preservation will be 
incorporated into a development project, or cash-in-lieu contribution to public art 
in the Basin. 
 
Policy 5.4: Heritage Preservation - Incentives: The County should consider 
appropriate incentives to property owners for the purposes of preserving heritage 
amenities.   
 
Policy 5.5: Art and Economic Development: Allow opportunities for the arts 
and artists to participate in the visual enhancement of the Basin. 
 
OBJECTIVE B: Identify and protect Critical Lands throughout the Basin, and ensure 
that development is limited or prohibited as appropriate.  
 
 
Policy 5.6: Preservation: Work with developers to ensure that Critical Lands are 
properly identified within proposed project areas and preserved and avoided to 
the greatest extent possible.  
  
Policy 5.7: Critical Lands Density: Development on Critical Lands is allowed at 
base density. No density incentives for development should be granted for 
preserving Critical Lands.  
 
Policy 5.8: Critical Lands: Critical Lands defined in Chapter 11 of the Code are 
those lands which: 
 
 a. Have slopes of thirty percent (30%) or greater, or 
 
 b. Have geologic hazards and avalanche tracks, or 
 
  c.  Are within a 100-year flood plain, or 
 
 d. Are Jurisdictional Wetlands as defined by the Army Corps of Engineers, or 
 
 e. Are on ridgelines. 
   
Policy 5.9: Critical Slopes: Slopes of thirty percent or more are declared to be 
critical areas because there is a high probability that onsite and downslope 
property damage and water quality, fisheries and wildlife habitat deterioration 
may result from their development.  Revegetation difficulties are compounded by 
the Basin’s short growing season, making the reclamation of disturbed slopes 
more costly, and long term success of reclamation may be difficult.  Development 
that accelerates the erosion of soil, and thereby contributes significantly to the 
sedimentation of stream corridors, should not be allowed. 
 
Policy 5.10: Floodplains: All areas within a 100-year floodplain, or where the 
prevailing or potential natural vegetation is riparian, are declared to be critical to 

 
21 
 
the maintenance of the basin's hydrologic systems, fisheries and wildlife habitat.  
Development of floodplain areas has a significant potential to adversely affect 
wildlife, water quality, and, if it modifies the floodway, adjoining, upstream and 
downstream properties, roads and other public facilities. Development in 
floodplain areas may also be constrained by a high water table which raises the 
cost of installing and maintaining utilities. Finally, floodplain development 
adversely affects all taxpayers through public expenditures to prevent or clean up 
damages due to floods.   
 
Policy 5.11: Avalanche Tracks: Development layout and design should avoid 
areas which may be adversely affected by avalanche tracks.  All known 
avalanche tracks are declared to be critical areas because of the high probability 
that development in such hazardous areas may result in property damage, 
damage to public utilities and roads serving the development, and possible injury 
or loss of life.  
 
Policy 5.12: Jurisdictional Wetlands: Jurisdictional Wetlands are declared to 
be critical since development in wetland areas has a significant adverse effect on 
water quality, the rate and volume of storm water discharge, and wildlife.  
 
Policy 5.13: Ridgelines:  Because of the importance of aesthetics to the 
economic viability of the Basin, views from the designated roadways (Interstate 
80, State Roads 224 and 248, and US-40) are critical and ridgeline 
encroachment should be avoided.  
 
OBJECTIVE C: Enhance, promote, and protect a sustainable development 
framework for the future.  
 
Policy 5.14: Water Quality: Coordinate with the Summit County Health 
Department to ensure watershed areas and well sources are protected through 
the implementation of Development Code amendments.  
 
Policy 5.15: Wastewater Systems: Develop a plan to implement strategies to 
construct/upgrade public sewer facilities. Where public systems are not available, 
promote the utilization of advanced wastewater systems.  
 
Policy 5.16: Storm Water: Coordinate with the Summit County Engineering 
Department to encourage sustainable and efficient storm water management 
practices.  
 
Policy 5.17: Irrigation: Promote advanced irrigation techniques, including the 
use of wastewater on golf courses and other large irrigated areas.  
 
Policy 5.18: Landscaping: Study and implement an urban landscaping 
management plan to be included in the Development Code to ensure the on-
going health of the community flora.  
 

 
22 
 
Policy 5.19: Preservation of Air Quality: Ensure that development does not 
contribute significantly to the degradation of air quality and minimizes the impacts 
of wood burning stoves, automobiles, or other similar air quality pollutants by:  
 
a. Coordinating with the Summit County Health Department to support 
and implement air quality initiatives.   
 
b. Prohibiting the use of new wood burning appliances and incentivize the 
replacement of old wood burning devices.  
 
c. Adopting an anti-idling ordinance.  
 
d. Coordinating with the Summit County Engineering Department to 
amend the Construction Mitigation Plan requirements to ensure 
mitigation of post emissions on constructions sites.  
 
Policy 5.20: Transportation: Continue to work with Park City Municipal, the 
Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”), and others to develop, maintain, 
and promote a regional transportation system to help reduce air pollution in the 
Basin by: 
 
a. Coordinating with Summit County Public Works and the Engineering 
Department to study and adopt a multi-modal neighborhood transit 
enhancement plan.  This plan should ensure that transportation routes 
function appropriately and meet the needs of the individual 
neighborhoods.  
 
b. Coordinating with Basin Recreation to continue updating the 
Snyderville Basin Trails Master Plan to enhance neighborhood 
connectivity and encourage a reduction in driving.  
 
c. Coordinating with Summit County Public Works, the Engineering 
Department, Basin Recreation, and the Park City School District to 
study and implement a safe route to schools program.  
 
Policy 5.21: Site Design: Encourage community site design techniques that 
promote sustainable land use practices by: 
 
a. Implementing requirements for lot and building orientation to maximize 
sustainable design opportunities.  
 
b. Coordinating with the Summit County Building Department to 
implement incentives for energy efficiency and sustainable site design. 
 
 
c. Updating the lighting regulations to allow for the newest technologies 
that allow for the most efficient lighting.  
 

 
23 
 
Policy 5.22: Wildfire Management: Development layout and design should take 
into consideration the risks associated with wildfires.  
 
Policy 5.23: Wildlife: Ensure the protection of wildlife and habitat from adverse 
impacts of development by:  
 
a. Coordinating with the Utah State Division of Wildlife Resources to map 
critical winter and summer ranges, birthing areas, and migration 
corridors.  
 
 
  

Park City
´
Snyderville Basin 
Wildlife Map
§¨¦I-80
SR-224
US-40
Legend
sde.DBO.Migration_Routes
sde.DBO.Wildlife_Habitat
sde.DBO.Riparian_Areas
Chapter 6 
Housing Element 
 
GOAL: Provide equal housing opportunities to meet the needs of people of 
various income levels living, working, or desiring to live or work in the Basin 
by facilitating reasonable opportunities for a variety of housing, including low 
and moderate income housing, both rental and for sale. 
  
OBJECTIVE A: Develop strategies to ensure that an adequate supply of housing is 
provided that meets the needs of various moderate and low income groups living, 
working, or desiring to live or work in the Basin identified in the Housing Needs 
Assessment and/or Department of Workforce Services database, as updated. 
 
Policy 6.1: Identify and implement a wide range of strategies to increase housing 
density and diversity in appropriate locations. Such strategies may include: 
 
a. Increasing allowed densities for affordable housing projects where 
appropriate and where adequate levels of services and amenities and 
transit can be provided, or the impact otherwise mitigated. 
 
b. Requiring new residential development to allocate a percentage of the 
units to be affordable. 
 
c. Requiring commercial, industrial, and resort projects to provide housing for 
a percentage of their projected workforce. 
 
d. Requiring a long-term commitment of affordability. 
 
e. Cooperating with surrounding jurisdictions in the development and 
implementation of regional affordable housing strategies. 
 
f. Explore the creation of a Summit County Housing Authority and/or 
regional housing authority.  
 
g. Incorporate the definition of “Middle Income Housing” in the 
Development Code and other policy documents.  
 
h. Beginning in 2020, conduct a biennial review of Chapter 5, 
Affordable Housing, Snyderville Basin Development Code and 
update the County’s inclusionary housing ordinance as 
necessary.
 
 
Policy 6.2: Encourage the private sector to build affordable housing. 
 
Policy 6.3: Support a variety of housing consisting of a balance of types of 
housing, styles of housing, ownership category, unit sizes, and a range of 
affordability. 
 
 
 
Policy 6.4: Study and implement strategies to achieve attainable housing in the 
Basin. 
 
Policy 6.5: Allow the development of Single Room Occupancy (SRO) housing, 
group homes, community housing, emergency shelter and transitional housing, 
and supported living facilities for the elderly and persons with special housing 
needs, taking into consideration the proximity to public transportation, shopping, 
medical services, and other essential support services for the elderly and others 
with special needs. 
 
Policy 6.6: Allow the development of seasonal housing to address the needs of 
the resort economy, through cooperation with current and future employers and 
housing agencies in the area. 
 
Policy 6.7: Support nonprofit agencies and organizations that provide shelter, 
housing, and related services to low and moderate income households. 
 
Policy 6.8: Support the use of private, local, state, and federal assistance for 
housing development or preservation. 
 
OBJECTIVE B: Support strategies that allow persons with moderate and low incomes 
to benefit from and fully participate in all aspects of neighborhood and community life. 
 
Policy 6.9: Encourage in-fill housing development in mixed use areas that offer 
residents easy access to goods, services, jobs, transportation, and recreation. 
 
Policy 6.10: Encourage and incentivize the distribution of workforce housing in 
the Snyderville Basin.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chapter 6.1 
Moderate Income Housing Element 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Rather than being monolithic, moderate-income housing is a multifaceted challenge for 
Summit County. It is tied closely to a variety of Snyderville Basin challenges including 
extremely high median housing costs; traffic congestion and legacy transportation 
issues; availability of sufficient local laborers; business challenges due to lack of 
access to labor; an increasingly non-diverse community; a shrinking number of full- 
time residents with long-term community and generational ties; increasing 
environmental degradation due to increasing development pressures; concerns about 
sustainability of air, land, and water natural resources; and the critical need to manage 
and limit rapid growth in a County that seeks to preserve open spaces, agricultural and 
cultural heritage (collectively, “Critical Concerns”). Accordingly, creating standards and 
strategies concerning moderate-income housing in this Chapter would be incomplete, 
ineffective, and potentially harmful to the vision and goals of this General Plan as well 
as the County Council’s vision, values, and strategic goals without carefully evaluating 
the impacts of any such standards and strategies on the Critical Concerns to 
determine if they will aggravate or mitigate and provide solutions to those Critical 
Concerns. All such standards and strategies and the Critical Concerns should 
continually be evaluated given the dynamic nature of growth in and on the borders of 
the County. 
The Summit County Manager, relevant staff as determined by the County Manager, 
and the County Council should regularly assess the County’s moderate-income 
housing needs and seek to articulate where such housing is most appropriate and for 
whom the need is greatest at any given moment always taking into careful 
consideration the Critical Concerns (“Moderate-Income Housing Assessment”). A 
priority of any such assessment should seek to identify if housing challenges are 
creating significant labor shortages in critical areas such as law enforcement, 
emergency medical services, education, doctors and nurses and other health care 
professionals, and local government workforce. In addition, the Moderate-Income 
Housing Assessment should examine the needs of long-term resident seniors seeking 
to age in place in the County, vulnerable populations, as well as the County’s tourism 
industry’s workforce. With respect to tourism workforce, any strategies developed in 
this Chapter 6.1 should seek to require major employers to bear some of the burden of 
providing employees with housing opportunities as well as reasonable wages that take 
into account the high housing costs in resort counties much like the difference in 
wages paid in rural Utah compared to San Francisco, California. 
External influences also need to be part of the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment, 
such as whether nightly rentals are removing long-term housing from the available 
housing capacity with a result of hollowing out formerly well-established 
neighborhoods, particularly outside of resort cores. Such assessment should consider 
 
2  
any moderate-income housing permitted, platted, commenced and/or built since the 
prior Moderate-Income Housing Assessment. Careful consideration of where to locate 
housing is a fundamental question the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment needs 
to examine in each instance with a focus on the Critical Concerns. For example, 
building or incentivizing affordable housing in the Snyderville Basin for County 
workforce that work primarily in County offices in Coalville requires commuting, which 
the moderate-income housing plan should seek to reduce. In addition, approving a 
large ratio of market rate housing to obtain a smaller ratio of affordable housing 
exacerbates the dearth of affordable housing given the additional services and workers 
required to service the market rate housing, and should be avoided. 
The critical questions of each Moderate-Income Housing Assessment should include: 
for whom, ideal location(s), transit and transportation access, trails access, and 
access to services to reduce commuting and car trips, as well an assessment of the 
state of each of the Critical Concerns. Those preparing the Moderate-Income 
Housing Assessment need to include specific metrics that are transparent, effective, 
and easy to understand that can be used to provide of positive or negative impacts 
that may be used by the County to adjust the goals and strategies contained in this 
Chapter 6.1. 
With respect to any and all analyses and changes to land use regulations contained 
in this Chapter 6.1, the County should carefully consider the positive and negative 
impacts on each of the Critical Concerns to make sure any such changes are likely to 
reduce deficits identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment and do not 
result in unintended consequences that negatively impact the Critical Concerns. 
 
 
 
Moderate income housing is defined as: “Housing occupied or reserved 
for occupancy by households with a gross household income equal to 
or less than 80% of the median gross income for households of the 
same size in the county in which the housing is located.” However, 
given that the median gross income for the County is substantially 
higher than the national average, consideration should be given to 
requiring moderate-income housing that is targeted to lower median 
gross income depending upon the intended solutions sought as 
identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment. 
GOAL: Provide moderate-income housing opportunities that address the 
moderate-income housing needs identified in the Moderate-Income 
Housing Assessment, as updated in accordance with the Introduction of 
this Chapter. Due to already aggressive market rate housing growth 
pressures, it is essential that moderate-income housing does not come 
as a trade-off for additional market rate housing that may ultimately 
increase the moderate-income housing deficit due to the additional 
impacts created by the market rate housing and coincident 
infrastructure, services, and other needs that generate requirements for 
additional workforce. The primary goal should be meaningful reductions 
in existing deficits identified in the Moderate-Income Housing 
3  
Assessment. 
 
OBJECTIVE A: Develop strategies to facilitate an adequate supply of 
moderate-income housing to reduce the identified deficits of housing in 
the Snyderville Basin for various moderate and low income groups 
living, working, or desiring to work in the Snyderville Basin, all as 
identified and prioritized in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment, 
as updated, while minimizing negative impacts on the Critical Concerns. 
 
The County shall measure demand and the County’s progress toward 
meeting such demand through annual reporting, consistent with the 
requirements of Utah law. 
 
GOAL: Rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the production of 
moderate income housing. (Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(A)) 
 
 Policy 6.1: Identify and implement a wide range of strategies to 
 increase housing densities and diversity in appropriate locations. 
 Implementation measures are as follows: 
 
Implementation Measure 6.1.1a: Annually review, and amend 
as necessary, the Development Code moderate income 
housing provisions relating to the Neighborhood Mixed Use 
Zone, Town Center Zone, and Resort Center Zone as 
necessary to meet the goals and strategies of this Chapter. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.1.1b: Commence a study to 
determine the suitability of using some or a portion of various 
County owned properties for moderate income housing, within 
two years of approval of the Moderate Income Housing Plan, 
to meet specific needs and deficits identified in the Moderate- 
Income Housing Assessment. Such study should take into 
consideration the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment as 
well as other important County needs and uses for such 
properties. Properties found suitable and appropriate for 
moderate income housing development should be considered 
for moderate income housing to meet deficits identified in the 
Moderate-Income Housing Assessment but in all instances 
any study must make findings concerning the impacts on 
Critical Concerns. No County property acquired as public open 
space or on which conservation easements have been 
granted shall be considered for the purposes contemplated 
herein. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.1.1c: Annually review the current 
mixed-use zoning and density to determine whether the Moderate-
Income Housing Assessment indicates that additional zones or 
4  
rezones for higher density or moderate income residential 
development in commercial or mixed use zones, commercial 
centers, or employment centers are required to achieve the 
purposes of this Section 6.1. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.1.1d: Annually, after the approval of 
the Summit County Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of 
Utah, the Planning Commission should: 
 
1)Review the General Plan to identify, plan, and possibly 
create additional neighborhood master planned 
development and/or redevelopment areas, if and as 
necessary, to relieve deficits identified in the Moderate- 
Income Housing Assessment, as updated, in accordance 
with this Chapter 6.1, and thereafter amend the General 
Plan accordingly. Note that such review should take into 
account such areas that the County has already identified in 
the Snyderville Basin as well as in Eastern Summit County; 
and 
 
6.1.4.1 2): Review the Future Land Use Maps in 
Chapter 9 of the General Plan to identify and define 
specific densities that would be appropriate in mixed 
use areas to facilitate the deficits identified in the 
Moderate- Income Housing Assessment with careful 
consideration of negative and positive impacts on the 
Critical Concerns. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.1.1e: Within two years of the 
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing 
Plan by the State of Utah, the Planning Commission should 
prepare and submit to the County Council an analysis of the 
benefits of creating a moderate income housing zone district 
to address the deficits identified in the Moderate-Income 
Housing Assessment, with careful consideration of negative 
and positive impacts on the Critical Concerns as a critical part 
of such analysis. 
 
Policy 6.1a: Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income 
residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones commercial 
centers, or employment centers.  
(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(F)) 
 
Implementation Measure 6.1a.2: Upon completion of “Our Summit”, a 
community visioning project, completed in 2024, the Planning Commission 
will review and update, if necessary, the General Plan Future Land Use Maps 
and identify specific rezone areas as well as opportunities to create additional 
5  
mixed use zones. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.1.a.3: Continue to regularly review, 
and amend as necessary, the comprehensive long range 
Snyderville Basin Transportation Master Plan. 
 
Policy 6.1b: Demonstrate implementation of any other program or 
strategy to address the housing needs of residents of the county who 
earn less than 80% of the area median income, including the dedication 
of a local funding source to moderate income housing or the adoption of a 
land use ordinance that requires 10% or more of new residential 
development in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate income 
housing. (Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(W)) 
 
Implementation Measure 6.1b.1: Annually review the Affordable 
Housing chapter of the Snyderville Basin Development Code and 
amend, if necessary, to ensure affordable housing best practices 
are implemented. Maintain the requirement that all new residential 
development be required to develop or ensure the development of 
moderate income housing at a rate of twenty percent (20%) of the 
units in a development. The moderate income housing obligation 
shall continue to be met concurrently with the construction of 
market rate units. 
 
Policy 6.1c: Require commercial, industrial, and resort projects to 
provide housing for a percentage of their projected workforce. 
 
Policy 6.1d: Require a long-term commitment to affordability. 
 
Policy 6.1e: Ratify a joint acquisition agreement with another local 
political subdivision for the purpose of combining resources to acquire 
property for moderate income housing.  
(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(T)) 
 
Implementation Measure 6.1e.1: Facilitate discussions with local 
political subdivisions to enter into a joint agreement within two 
years. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.1e.2: Within two years, coordinate 
with local political subdivisions to accurately assess regional 
moderate income housing needs, including a regional employment 
study. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.1e.3: Annually, coordinate with local 
political subdivisions in the development and implementation of 
regional moderate income housing strategies. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.1e.4: Within one year, coordinate with 
6  
local political subdivisions to identify local, state, and federal funding 
sources to create moderate income housing through a regional 
housing authority or other forms of cooperation. 
 
Policy 6.1f::  Explore the creation of a Summit County Housing Authority 
and/or regional housing authority. 
 
  Implementation Measure 6.1f.1: Within one year, begin  
  discussions with the Summit County Council regarding the  
  creation of a Summit County Housing Authority and/or regional 
  housing authority. 
 
Policy 6.1g: Incorporate the definition of “Middle Income Housing” in the 
Development Code and other policy documents. 
 
Policy 6.1h: Beginning in 2024, conduct a biennial review of Chapter 5, 
Affordable Housing, Snyderville Basin Development Code and update 
the County’s inclusionary housing ordinance as necessary. 
 
Policy 6.2: Develop and implement measures that hold developers of 
moderate income housing strategies accountable for the implementation 
of their strategies, actions, and results. Monitoring must be transparent 
with clear, easily understood metrics that enable the developers, elected 
officials, and the public to easily understand if and how progress is being 
made in implementing the strategy. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.2a: Require developers of 
moderate income housing to file annual reports with reasonably 
detailed criteria that reports the compliance with applicable deed 
restrictions; create penalties for failure to comply with such deed 
restrictions and related enforcement mechanisms. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.2b: Create land use regulations 
that prohibit nightly rentals of any housing units that are created 
using any moderate income housing incentives or pursuant to 
land use regulations created, amended, or modified to facilitate 
the creation of moderate income housing. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.2c: Following receipt of the Annual 
Moderate Income Housing Reporting Form, establish a 
stakeholder committee that meets annually with the purpose of 
adopting and monitoring specific measures to be used when 
evaluating moderate income housing projects. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.2d: Develop and implement a 
public engagement program to communicate, educate, and 
collaboratively problem solve issues related to creating 
7  
moderate income housing in appropriate areas. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.2e: Annually report the County’s 
progress toward meeting the moderate income housing 
demand as required by Utah law. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.2f: Annually review the number 
of moderate-income units entitled, permitted, and constructed 
against the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment, as 
updated. 
 
Policy 6.3: Support a variety of hosing consisting of a balance of 
types of housing, styles of housing, ownership category, unit sizes, 
and a range of affordability. 
 
Policy 6.4: Implement zoning incentives for moderate income units in new 
developments.(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(J)) 
 
Implementation Measure 6.4a: Amend the Development Code, 
within two years, to incentivize the creation of moderate income 
housing units such as increased building height, reduced setbacks, 
reduced parking standards, and expedited building permit reviews. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.4b: Maintain the incentive 
community benefit criteria for incentive zoning for deed restricted 
moderate income housing in the Town Center and Resort Center 
zone districts. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.4c: Amend the Development Code, 
within two years, to incentivize the creation of deed restricted 
affordable senior living communities for residents that are 55 years 
old or older. 
 
Policy 6.5: Amend land use regulations to allow for single room 
occupancy developments. 
(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(I)) 
 
Implementation Measure 6.5a: Amend the Development Code in 2024 to 
allow for the development of Single Room Occupancy (SRO) housing, group 
homes, community housing, emergency shelter and transitional housing, and 
supported living facilities for the elderly and persons with special housing 
needs in residential zone districts, taking into consideration the proximity to 
public transportation, shopping, medical services, and other essential support 
services.  
 
 
 Policy 6.6: Allow the development of seasonal housing to address the needs of the 
8  
 resort economy, through cooperation with current and future employes and housing 
 agencies in the area.  
 
Policy 6.7: Demonstrate creation of, or participation in, a community 
land trust program for moderate income housing. 
(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(M)) 
 
Implementation Measure 6.7a: Annually meet with local non- 
profit organizations who support the creation of and intend to 
ensure the long-term affordability of moderate income housing to 
establish on-going cooperation and coordination and to maintain 
public/private partnerships. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.7b: Establish a stakeholder 
committee, within one year, comprised of local governments, 
community housing agencies, and residents to establish numerical 
goals and associated milestones to track and monitor progress of 
creating moderate income housing and to uncover shortfalls. 
 
Policy 6.8:: Identify and utilize county general fund subsidies or other 
sources of revenue to waive construction related fees that are otherwise 
generally imposed by the County for the construction or rehabilitation of 
moderateincome housing. 
(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(D)) 
 
Implementation Measure 6.8a: Maintain, and annually review, 
and amend as necessary, Development Code provisions regarding 
fee waivers for moderate income housing units. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.8b: Maintain, and annually review, 
and amend as necessary, the fee in lieu of constructing moderate   
income housing established in the Development Code. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.8c: Amend the Development Code, 
within one year, to allow fees in lieu that have been collected to 
subsidize construction related fees for moderate income housing on 
private property. 
GOAL: Support strategies that allow persons with moderate and low 
incomes to benefit from and fully participate in all aspects of 
neighborhood and community life.  
 Policy 6.9: Encourage in-fill housing development in mixed use 
 areas that offer residents easy access to goods, services, jobs, 
 transportation, and recreation.  
 Policy 6.10: Encourage and incentivize the distribution of workforce 
 housing in the Snyderville Basin.  
9  
 
 
Policy 6.11: Create a housing and transit reinvestment zone (HTRZ) 
pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part 6, Housing and Transit Reinvestment 
Zone Act. (Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(Q)) 
 
Implementation Measure 6.11a: Hold community public hearings 
to acquire input in the criteria that the County should consider in 
selecting a HTRZ within one year. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.11b: Amend the General Plan and 
Development Code to codify HTRZ criteria and establish zones 
where HTRZs are allowed within one year after the community 
public hearings are closed. 
 
Implementation Measure 6.11c: Establish a development permit 
application process for projects in the HTRZ within one year after 
the community public hearings are closed. 
 
Policy 6.12: Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related to, 
internal or detached accessory dwelling units in residential zones. (Utah 
Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(E)) 
 
Implementation Measure 6.12.1: Amend the Development Code in 2024 to 
add a definition of Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit that is consistent with 
State Code, and to modify regulations related to accessory dwelling units, 
both internal and detached, to facilitate their creation, including the removal 
of the minimum land size required for detached accessory dwelling units, 
deed restricted for workforce/employee housing. 
 
Policy 6.13: Amend the Development Code, within one year, to require 
adequate bicycle parking requirements. 
 
 
 
26 
 
Chapter 7 
Services and Facilities  
GOAL: Maintain adequate service levels in regards to services and facilities that 
are best operated at the local government or quasi-governmental level. These 
services could include: essential health and safety services such as fire, 
ambulance, law enforcement, public health, utilities and infrastructure; and other 
services such as libraries, parks and recreation, public transportation, weed or 
pest management, and waste management and recycling. 
  
OBJECTIVE A: Coordinate and collaborate with applicable service providers to identify 
acceptable service levels and develop standards for measuring service delivery 
success. 
 
Policy 7.1: Ensure that public health and safety services and facilities are 
available to citizens dispersed throughout the Basin. 
 
Policy 7.2: Essential facilities should be designed to provide an acceptable level 
of service to the peak service demand. Other facilities should be designed to 
accommodate average demand. Temporarily reduced service levels may occur 
at times of peak service demand; however, reductions should not produce a 
meaningful threat to the public safety. 
 
Policy 7.3: Encourage the widespread use of the latest communications 
technology. This will include supporting the development of facilities and 
infrastructure for broadband service.  
 
OBJECTIVE B: Developers should pay their proportional share of the costs of future 
facilities and services necessitated by new development. Costs for added facilities and 
infrastructure as a result of new development should not be passed on to existing 
residents and businesses. 
 
Policy 7.3: Ensure that new development is able to provide, or is located near, 
existing or future planned adequate infrastructure such as reliable water and 
sewage treatment prior to development approval. 
 
Policy 7.4: Coordinate with utility providers to ensure they are planning for 
facilities consistent with the Plan. 
  
 
27 
 
Chapter 8 
Transportation, Circulation, and Connectivity  
GOAL: Promote a variety of transportation alternatives that provide convenient , 
reliable, and efficient services that meet the travel requirements of users.  
 
OBJECTIVE A: Use comprehensive multi-modal transportation planning to guide 
decision making.  
 
Policy 8.1: Comprehensive Transportation Plan: Annually review and update 
as necessary the comprehensive long range Snyderville Basin Transportation 
Master Plan (the “Transportation Master Plan”). The County has adopted this 
Plan as the primary transportation planning tool that establishes a roadway 
classification system, a map showing the location of future roads and key 
improvements required, and a description of a local transit system needed to 
serve the community. The Transportation Master Plan is attached as an 
appendix to this Chapter. 
 
Policy 8.2: Trails Plan: Coordinate with Basin Recreation and adjacent regional 
jurisdictions on updates to their Trails Master Plan to address such items as 
location, construction, connectivity, maintenance, and funding of community wide 
trails. The County has adopted this as the primary Trails Plan for the Snyderville 
Basin.  
 
OBJECTIVE B: The following principles will be incorporated into all transportation 
planning efforts in all development in the Basin. 
 
Policy 8.3: Multimodal Streets: Streets and adjacent spaces should not be just 
a corridor for moving traffic, but make allowances for social interaction, walking, 
horseback riding where appropriate, and cycling.  All future motorized roadways 
will be constructed to allow for non-motorized transportation activities. 
Additionally, all existing road construction projects will be designed and 
constructed to provide an alternative pathway for other modes of transportation. 
Examples of these types of corridors are sidewalks, soft surface or paved trail 
that are separated from or adjacent to the road, widened shoulders, and bike 
lanes.  
 
Policy 8.4: Exhaust Alternatives Before Increasing Capacity: Study and 
implement strategies to regularly audit streets and transit systems for upgrades. 
All efforts will be made to use existing transportation resources to their maximum 
efficiency before new infrastructure is built. Expanding capacity of any roadway 
will be considered as a last resort.    
 
Policy 8.5: Access and Level of Service:  Access to major roadways, including 
highway and other arterial roads, will be limited and managed to maintain an 
adequate “level of service” and to maintain the “functional classification” of the 

 
28 
 
roadway. Property owners will be responsible for coordinating access to optimize 
the location of roadway intersections. 
 
Policy 8.6: Traffic Control and Management: The County will consider the 
implementation of traffic control and management measures, including, but not 
limited to the following components: 
 
a. Park and ride facilities at Kimball Junction, Quinn’s Junction, Town and 
Resort Centers, and other appropriate locations;  
 
b. Programs limiting portions of roads to non-motorized vehicles or 
pedestrian use;  
 
c. Bicycle Transportation Master Plan, working in conjunction with Park City, 
U.D.O.T., and Basin Recreation;  
 
d. Employer-based carpooling;  
 
e. Employer-sponsored flexible work schedules;  
 
f. Car and van pool programs;  
 
g. Local programs directed toward the community center, special events, and 
other high traffic generators.  
 
OBJECTIVE C: Development will be designed to provide multimodal connectivity 
between adjacent subdivisions, commercial areas, or other developments.  
 
Policy 8.7: Connectivity: All streets should be designed to connect to the larger 
network.  Cul-de-sacs are generally discouraged, especially in areas where 
connectivity opportunities exist.  The street pattern will be arranged to keep 
through traffic off local streets. Road patterns designed to allow traffic to speed 
through a neighborhood are not appropriate.  
 
Policy 8.8: Internal Connectivity: Development will include a continuous 
system of sidewalks or pathways to connect all residential, commercial, parks, 
school and civic amenities, and other areas. Connections between internal 
pathway systems to the community system are highly encouraged.  
 
Policy 8.9: Walking distance: The distance between intersections will not 
exceed a distance that is comfortable for walking from place to place.  
 
Policy 8.10: Traffic Calming: Traffic calming devices will be incorporated where 
appropriate. Reduced traffic speeds will be promoted on neighborhood roads 
with appropriate signs or other measures indicating road use by others such as 
children, horses, bicyclists, walkers, or fishermen. 
 

 
29 
 
Policy 8.11: Transit: Centrally located transit facilities will be placed within all 
new major developments.   
 
Policy 8.12: Entry Corridors: The County, working with the UDOT, will adopt a 
landscape enhancement and management master plan for SR 224, SR 248, I-80, 
and US-40 corridors.  The County will continue to work with UDOT to gain 
agreements regarding the placement of raised barrier curbs, landscaping along 
the road edges, and divided median strips within the identified entry corridors to 
provide additional enhancements in these areas. 
 
OBJECTIVE D: The County will pursue local and regional mass transit opportunities to 
provide greater transportation efficiency.  
 
Policy 8.13: Recognize the regional nature of traffic and commit to continue 
working with UDOT, Park City Municipal, Wasatch County, Salt Lake County, 
and other stakeholders to achieve regional mass transit cooperation.  
 
Policy 8.14: Maximize existing infrastructure to accommodate for mass transit 
rather than building or expanding roads. 

 
30 
 
Chapter 9 
Neighborhood Plans  and Future Land Use Maps  
In order to protect existing neighborhood characteristics and to promote cohesive 
planning in the future, the following Neighborhood Planning Area have been identified in 
the Snyderville Basin: Bitner Road, Canyons, Central Basin, East Basin, Highland 
Estates, Jeremy Ranch/Pinebrook, Kimball Junction, North Mountain, Old Ranch Road, 
Quinn’s Junction, Rasmussen Road, Silver Creek, The Summit, Trailside, Utah Olympic 
Park, and West Mountain. 
 
 All neighborhoods within the Snyderville Basin should adhere to the goals, objectives, 
and policies found in the individual chapters of the Plan and summarized in the 
statements below. However, each neighborhood planning area will not lend itself equally 
to the application of only these goals, objectives, and policies based on their unique 
characteristics. Additional neighborhood design objectives and/or special considerations 
have been included for some neighborhoods.  
 
The Future Land Use Maps are not zoning maps. The boundaries illustrated on the 
maps are, to a degree, flexible. Depending upon the details of any future land use 
proposal, the uses identified may deviate from those shown on the current illustrations. 
These maps are meant to convey a general intent as to preferred future land uses and 
are expected to evolve over time. 
 
Global Principles: 
 
 Chapter 1: Vision and Background 
All neighborhoods should support the resort and mountain character of the 
Snyderville Basin. Development should be designed to support a sense of 
community. 
 
 Chapter 2: Land Use 
All neighborhood development should focus on sustainable patterns of 
development with special attention given to the protection of Critical Lands, 
wildlife migration corridors, and view sheds.  
 
 Chapter 3: Housing 
All neighborhood development should adhere to the commitment to provide 
housing for moderate or low income residents.  
  
 
31 
 
 
 Chapter 4: Cultural and Natural Resources  
All neighborhood development should protect and preserve culturally 
beneficial historical structures and natural resources with special attention 
given to access and connectivity of the community -wide trail system  
 
 Chapter 5: Open Space  
Preservation of open space is the highest priority of all neighborhoods. This 
is considered the most valuable characteristic which promotes the image and 
lifestyle enjoyed in the Snyderville Basin.  
 
 Chapter 6: Recreation and Trails  
All neighborhood develop ment should give special attention to access for 
recreational opportunities for the residents of the neighborhood and 
Snyderville Basin.  
 
 Chapter 7: Services and Facilities  
All neighborhood development should provide for east of access for public 
services such as police, fire trucks, and weed abatement.  
 
 Chapter 8: Transportation  
All neighborhood development should promote the community -wide 
connectivity and traffic flow of transportation.   
 
32 
 
BITNER ROAD
Location 
The Bitner Road neighborhood is bordered on 
the north by East Canyon Creek; on the west by 
the east end of the Rasmussen Road 
Neighborhood; on the south by Bitner Road that 
runs east and west; and on the east just beyond 
Bitner Road that runs north and south.  
 
Zoning 
The current zoning in this neighborhood is Rural 
Residential. The base density is 1 unit per 20 
acres.  
 
Neighborhood Description 
The Bitner Road neighborhood is highly visible 
from Interstate 80 and others areas in the 
immediate vicinity. It contains a mix of single 
family detached, multi-family, and neighborhood 
commercial uses. The East Canyon Creek is an 
important community amenity in this 
neighborhood, which is located within the 
Swaner Nature Preserve.  A unique feature in 
this neighborhood is the historic Bitner Ranch. It 
is important to recognize this is a community 
amenity and provide opportunities for 
preservation of this Ranch. 
 
There are a few undeveloped parcels located 
within this neighborhood. While this is a linear 
neighborhood that parallels I-80, future uses  
should not be designed to create typical strip 
development patterns. Based on the boundaries 
of the neighborhood and current Development 
Code criteria, such as setbacks, development 
would occur in a linear pattern. The allowed  
 
 
 
 
uses are currently limited by the existing Rural 
Residential zoning. Consideration should be 
given for future mixed-use developments and 
flexibility in design standards. This may occur 
through TDRs, future Code amendments and 
possible rezoning of parcels located within the 
neighborhood.  Prior to utilizing TDRs, a 
neighborhood master plan may be developed. 
Future land use patterns should also be context 
sensitive in terms of infrastructure capacity.  
 
Any future development should be sensitive to 
its surroundings, especially the East Canyon 
Creek corridor. Enhancements, including stream 
bank restoration and riparian plantings are 
appropriate.  
 
This neighborhood is bordered on the east by 
the Silver Creek Neighborhood, which has one 
access in and out of the subdivision. Future 
connectivity options between the two 
neighborhoods should be studied and 
considered, not only for motor vehicles, but for 
pedestrians and other recreational users as well.  
 
 
 
  

PRESERVED OPEN SPACE
MEDIUM DENSITY
RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL
HERITAGE AMENITY
MEDIUM DENSITY 
RESIDENTIAL
BitnerRanch
Road
¬«224
GREENBELT
§¨¦80
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
Knob
Hill
MIXED USE 
NEIGHBORHOOD 
COMMERCIAL
StationLoop
Rd
Pheasant Way
´
Bitner Neighborhood Planning Area
Future Land Use Map
Legend
Subdivision Open Space

 
33 
 
CANYONS
Location 
The Canyons neighborhood includes all the property 
located within the Canyons Specially Planned Area. It 
is bordered on the north by the Sunpeak area as well 
as the southern boundary of the West Mountain 
neighborhood; it is bordered on the east by a small 
section of SR-224 and the western boundary of the 
West Mountain neighborhood; it is bordered on the 
west by the Summit County/Salt Lake County 
boundary. 
 
Zoning 
The zoning in this neighborhood is a combination of 
Resort Center (RC), Rural Residential (RR), Hillside 
Stewardship (HS), and Mountain Remote (MR). The 
density in the RC zone is determined through the 
Specially Planned Area process (SPA). The base 
density in the RR zone is 1 unit per 20 acres; the 
base density in the HS zone is 1 unit per 30 acres; 
and the base density in the MR zone is 1 unit per 120 
acres.  
 
 
 
Neighborhood Description 
The Canyons neighborhood planning area contains 
steep, mountainous terrain, and sensitive and critical 
areas. Canyons Resort is the fifth largest ski resort in 
the United States and has the most acreage in the  
States. The uses consist of a mix of single family 
detached, multi-family, commercial, and resort related 
facilities.  
 
The Canyons planning area should be designed in 
accordance with the Canyons Specially Planned Area 
Development Agreement which is based on the 
following principles:  
 
• Consideration should be given to the skiing 
capacity of the mountain for the development of 
future lifts, trails, and related on mountain 
services necessary to support the skiing 
operation. 
• The density of the area should take into 
consideration the carrying capacity of the 
mountain for skiers, the ability of the developers 
to mitigate on and off-site impacts, and a 
substantial level of economic/tax base benefits 
accrued to Summit County. 
• Development should be tightly clustered in and 
around the resort cores in a manner that is transit 
and pedestrian friendly to minimize the use of 
automobiles.  
• In the Resort Core, resort accommodations 
should be provided rather than primary dwelling 
units. Primary dwelling units may be considered 
in areas outside of the Resort Core.  
• Consideration should be given for the allowance 
of clustered, high density development in 
exchange for open space preservation in the 
Resort Core.  
• A key objective in this area is to provide a quality 
recreation experience, without detracting from the 
aesthetic appearance of the landscape and 
causing disruptions of the existing mountain 
views.  
• Environmental enhancements, conservation and 
preservation of the natural resources in the 
planning area should be considered. 
• Traffic reduction measures and pedestrian 
connections are a high priority in this area. On-
going opportunities to provide regional 
transportation solutions should be explored.  
• Facilities and activities necessary to promote a 
year-round resort and meet the needs of the 
residents of the Snyderville Basin are 
encouraged to be developed in this planning 
area.  
• Cooperation with the Snyderville Basin Special 
Recreation District regarding the incorporation of 
trails and other recreational facilities is a priority 
in this neighborhood.
  

RESORT 
(Canyons)
MIXED USE 
AREA
MEDIUM DENSITY 
RESIDENTIAL
¬«224
LOW DENSITY
RESIDENTIAL
PRESERVED OPEN SPACE
W
hitePine Cyn Rd
Canyon sResort Dr
´
Canyons Neighborhood Planning Area
 Future Land Use Map
Legend
Subdivision Open Space
 
34 
 
CENTRAL BASIN
Location 
Central Basin is located on both the east and 
west sides of SR-224. The east side is bordered 
on the north by the Swaner Nature Preserve; on 
the east by the western boundary of the Willow 
Creek Estates Subdivision; on the south by Old 
Ranch Road; and on the west by SR-224.  
 
The west side includes Bear Hollow Village and 
is bordered by Utah Olympic Park; it is bordered 
on the east by SR-224; it is bordered on the 
south by Canyons Resort; and on the west by 
the eastern boundary of the West Mountain 
Neighborhood planning area.  
 
Zoning 
The zoning in this neighborhood is a 
combination Rural Residential (RR) and Hillside 
Stewardship (HS). The base density in the RR 
zone is 1 unit per 20 acres. The base density in 
the HS zone is 1 unit per 30 acres.  
 
 
 
 
Neighborhood Description 
The Central Basin neighborhood is comprised 
mainly of residential subdivisions that are mostly 
built out, with a few small pockets of 
neighborhood commercial uses, an elementary 
school, and institutional uses.  
 
The east side of SR-224 is mostly flat while the 
area west of SR-224 contains varying degrees 
of topography. A section of the Millennium Trail 
is located in this planning area on the west side 
of SR-224. This is an important community 
amenity.  
 
Future pedestrian connections should be 
considered to provide a safe passage across 
SR-224 for pedestrians wanting to access the 
elementary school, churches, or other existing 
commercial uses.   
 
It is the goal of this neighborhood to maintain the 
existing residential characteristics, ensure that 
commercial uses are designed to be in scale 
with the neighborhood, and allow for 
redevelopment opportunities in the future.  
 

PRESERVED OPEN SPACE
INSTITUTIONAL PARCEL
(Bear Hollow)
MEDIUM DENSITY 
RESIDENTIAL
MEDIUM DENSITY 
RESIDENTIAL
PARLEYS PARK
ELEMENTARY
NEIGHBORHOOD 
COMMERCIAL
¬«224
Old Ranch Road
CoveCanyonDr
´
Central Basin Neighborhood Planning Area
Future Land Use Map
Legend
Subdivision Open Space
SilverSpringsRd

 
35 
 
EAST BASIN
Location 
The East Basin neighborhood is located east of 
US-40 and extends east to the Snyderville Basin 
Planning District boundary. It is bordered on the 
north by Interstate 80; and extends south to the 
northern boundary of the existing Space Place 
Storage.  
 
Zoning 
The zoning in this neighborhood is a 
combination of Rural Residential (RR) and 
Community Commercial (CC). The base density 
in the RR zone is 1 unit per 20 acres. The 
density in the CC zone is determined by the 
ability of the proposed development to meet all 
required development and performance 
standards and criteria set forth in the 
Development Code. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neighborhood Description 
The East Basin neighborhood is highly visible 
from US-40 and others areas in the immediate 
vicinity. It is an important entry corridor into the  
Snyderville Basin and an additional entrance 
into Park City.  
 
The dominant features of this planning area are 
large tracts of relatively flat open lands, a stream 
corridor, wetlands, floodplains, and soils 
contaminated by mine tailings. It also contains 
areas of clustered development around the 
interchange of US-40 and Silver Summit, with 
other commercial uses interspersed throughout. 
The Pace Frontage Road is a popular route for 
bikers. 
 
The visual connectivity to existing open spaces 
is an important community feature and should 
be preserved as much as possible. Future 
design objectives that support this goal, such as 
locating structures at the outer edge of the 
meadow, clustering development near existing 
uses, and avoiding strip mall type patterns of 
development are encouraged. Protection of 
existing wildlife corridors is an important 
community value. 
 
Consideration should be given for future mixed-
use developments and flexibility in design 
standards. This may occur through TDR’s, future 
Code amendments and possible rezoning of 
parcels located within the neighborhood.  Prior 
to utilizing TDRs, a neighborhood master plan 
may be developed. Future land use patterns 
should also be context sensitive in terms of 
infrastructure capacity.  
 
There are no existing residential uses in this 
planning area; however, the Silver Creek Village 
Center, which is a mixed use development, has 
been approved to be located on the southeast 
quadrant of Interstate 80 and US-40. This is a 
large development that will have a significant 
impact on the character of the East Basin 
neighborhood, such as increased traffic at the 
US-40 and Silver Summit interchange. 

PRESERVED OPEN SPACE
(Round Valley)
SILVER CREEK VILLAGE CENTER
50,000 sq. ft. commercial/retail
960 market rate units
330 affordable housing units
OPEN SPACE
MIXED USE 
AREA
MIXED USE 
AREA
GREENBELT
PROMONTORY
§¨¦80
£¤40
EXISTING SEWER
DISTRICT FACILITY
LOW DENSITY 
RESIDENTIAL
VERY LOW DENSITY
(potential open space)
MEDIUM DENSITY 
RESIDENTIAL
RAILTRAIL
VERY LOW DENSITY
(potential open space)
´
East Basin Neighborhood Planning Area
Future Land Use Map
Silver Summit 
Interchange
 
36 
 
HIGHLAND ESTATES
 
Location 
The Highland Estates Neighborhood Planning 
Area is bordered on the north by Interstate 80; 
on the east by US-40; on the south by the 
northern boundary of the Trailside 
neighborhood; and on the west near Old Ranch 
Road.  
 
Zoning 
The zoning in this neighborhood is Rural 
Residential (RR) and Hillside Stewardship (HS). 
The base density in the RR zone is 1 unit per 20 
acre. The base density in the HS zone is 1 unit 
per 30 acres.  
 
Neighborhood Description 
The Highland Neighborhood Planning Area 
consists of the Park Ridge and Highland Estates 
subdivisions.  This neighborhood is one of the 
oldest single-family residential areas in the 
Snyderville Basin.  The neighborhood is 
predominately characterized by single-family 
detached residences with an average lot size of 
1.5 acres.  The neighborhood is primarily built-
out.  A limited number of home-based 
businesses and other commercial activities have 
established in the  
 
 
 
area which may be inconsistent with the Code 
and current zoning. A goal of this Neighborhood 
Planning Area is to preserve the existing 
residential character and ensure that 
incompatible uses are addressed. 
 
The neighborhood design objective is to: 
 
• Reinforce the use of detached single-family 
residential structures and related small 
scale accessory structures. 
• Investigate the potential for the future 
upgrade of individual septic tank systems to 
a regional sewer system. 
• Maintain reasonable standards for 
equestrian activities. 
• Mitigate traffic impacts through the 
neighborhood. 
• Enhance pedestrian, equestrian, and non-
motorized trail connectivity between 
residential areas, schools, parks, and open 
space areas. 
• Fencing that impedes or adversely affects 
wildlife or wildlife migration corridors should 
be discouraged. 
 
 
 

MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
VERY LOW DENSITY
(potential open space)
Highland Drive
Silver Summit 
Interchange
£¤40
§¨¦80
Snow
View
Drive
Silver Sage Dr
´
Highland Neighborhood Planning Area
Future Land Use Map

 
37 
 
JEREMY RANCH / PINEBROOK 
Location 
Jeremy Ranch is located on the north side of I-
80 and Pinebrook is located on the south side of 
I-80. Jeremy Ranch extends north, just past 
Daybreaker Drive. It is bordered on the east by 
The Ridge at Redhawk Subdivision; on the 
south by I-80; and it extends west, just past The 
Woods at Parleys Lane and Moose Hollow 
Subdivisions. The Jeremy Ranch Elementary 
School and the commercial property to the west 
of the school are also included in this 
neighborhood.  
 
Pinebrook is bordered on the northeast by I-80. 
It extends south just past Ecker Hill Middle 
School and continues south to include the 
subdivisions in Pinebrook, such as Ecker Hill 
and Pineridge. It then continues west just past 
the boundaries of developments such as 
Sunridge, Pinebrook Pointe, and Cedar Ridge. 
The commercial area at Quarry Junction is also 
included in this neighborhood.  
 
Zoning 
The zoning in this neighborhood is a 
combination Rural Residential (RR) and Hillside 
Stewardship (HS). The base density in  
the RR zone is 1 unit per 20 acres. The base 
density in the HS zone is 1 unit per 30 acres.  
 
Neighborhood Description 
The Jeremy Ranch / Pinebrook neighborhood 
contains subdivisions that are largely built-out. 
They are primarily single family detached 
residential areas with some multi-family areas 
interspersed throughout. They both contain 
commercial areas; the commercial area in 
Jeremy Ranch is around the intersection of 
Rasmussen and Homestead Roads, and the 
commercial area in Pinebrook is primarily 
located in the southeast quadrant of Kilby and 
Pinebrook Roads. A significant portion of the  
 
 
 
 
Jeremy Ranch subdivision is dedicated to a golf 
course.  
 
This planning area is located in the entry 
corridor to the Snyderville Basin. Any future 
development should be compatible with the 
existing environment, including the preservation 
of open space, vegetation, and wildlife habitat. 
 
Because this neighborhood is split by I-80, 
pedestrian and safer vehicular connections are a 
primary concern. Future alternatives should be 
explored in conjunction with the implementation 
of the Snyderville Basin Transportation Master 
Plan. Additional opportunities to provide for less 
congested and safer intersections should also 
be considered for the Rasmussen/Homestead 
and Pinebrook/Kilby Road areas.
   
 

PRESERVED OPEN SPACE
MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
(Jeremy Ranch)
MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
(Pinebrook)
JEREMY RANCH
ELEMENTARY
ECKER HILL 
MIDDLE SCHOOL
§¨¦80
MIXED 
RESIDENTIAL
§¨¦80
PinebrookRd
HomesteadRd
MIXED USE
NEIGHBORHOOD 
COMMERCIAL EXISTING SEWER
DISTRICT FACILITY
´
Jeremy Ranch / Pinebrook Neighborhood Planning Area
Future Land Use Map
Legend
Subdivision Open Space
JeremyRd
KIMBALL JUNCTION  
Location 
The Kimball Junction neighborhood contains 
property on both the east and west sides of SR-
224. The east side is bordered on the north by I-
80; on the east and south by the Swaner Nature 
Preserve; and on the west by SR-224. The west 
side is bordered on the north by I-80; on the east 
by SR-224; on the south by Summit County 
open space; and on the west by the Hi-Ute 
Ranch. 
 
While the Utah Olympic Park is a separate 
neighborhood planning area, it has also been 
recognized in this plan because the connectivity 
between the two neighborhoods is critical.  
 
 
 
Zoning 
The zoning in this neighborhood is a 
combination of Rural Residential (RR), 
Community Commercial (CC), and Town Center 
(TC). The base density in the RR zone is 1 unit 
per 20 acres; the base density in the CC zone is 
determined by the ability of the development to 
meet all required development performance 
standards and criteria set forth in the 
Development Code. The base density in the TC 
zone is determined through the Specially 
Planned Area process and is memorialized 
through a Development Agreement. 
Existing Development Agreement Areas 
Each Development Agreement establishes 
project specific development standards that are 
unique and supersede the underlying base 
zoning requirements.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Kimball Junction East 
Kimball Junction West 
Neighborhood Description 
The Kimball Junction neighborhood is the 
designated Town Center in the Snyderville 
Basin.  It is the primary retail-commercial 
shopping district in the region.  Recent 
developments have introduced new residential, 
workforce housing, lodging, entertainment, and 
social uses into the neighborhood beyond the 
original regional commercial business.    
 
Kimball Junction is the arrival point for the 
greater Snyderville Basin-Park City region. 
Among the neighborhood’s strengths are its 
proximity to several primary transportation 
corridors, its economic vitality, and the nearby 
open space and recreation amenities.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Despite the neighborhood’s positive attributes, 
four decades of zoning administration, land use 
litigation, and site specific-Development 
Agreements have resulted in a number of 
significant challenges.  These challenges 
include a marginal sense of arrival, poor 
neighborhood interconnectivity, a hostile 
pedestrian environment, and a weak public 
realm. 
 
One of the most prominent challenges is traffic 
congestion. The design principles addressed 
throughout this plan provide opportunities to 
address the efficiency of traffic flow through SR-
224.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

On-going engagement with community 
members, the Planning Commission, and 
County Council has identified a number of 
potential opportunities to address and enhance 
the Kimball Junction’s built environment.  These 
opportunities include: 
• Improving the flow of the regional 
through traffic; 
• Strengthening the neighborhood’s 
mix of uses; 
• Reestablishing a traditional; 
neighborhood building-street pattern; 
• Centralizing parking; 
• Bettering the overall neighborhood 
connectivity and walkability; 
• Enhancing and expanding 
community and civic spaces; 
• Improving the visual quality of built 
environment; and  
• Promoting community participation 
in the neighborhood planning 
process. 
 
A number of fundamental planning and 
community design principals have been 
established for the Kimball Junction 
neighborhood to achieve these opportunities.  
These concepts and associated illustrations are 
presented in the following pages of this 
Snyderville Basin General Plan section. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Create a Mixed -Use Neighborhood 
Mixed-Use neighborhoods are 
designed with people in mind. They 
are “Places”.  They are places where 
residential, retail, service, and civic 
uses are connected by a network of 
public spaces.  Mixed-Use 
neighborhoods promote efficiencies 
in people, services, mobility, and 
infrastructure. 
 
 
 
 
 
Key Action Points 
 
Amend the Snyderville Basin Development  
Code to establish a mixed-use zoning district  
targeting a broad palette of residential uses,  
workforce housing, retail, service, civic, and  
multi-modal transit uses. Consider using this  
zone as a rezoning tool for redevelopment and  
new infill development proposals. 
 
Amend the Snyderville Basin Development  
Code to create a Master Planned  
Development process to achieve greater design  
flexibility and incentivize workforce housing,  
multi-modal facilities, and parking mitigation. 
 
Amend the Snyderville Basin Development  
Code’s existing Community Commercial zoning  
district to strengthen performance standards  
relating to connectivity to the public realm, multi- 
modal transportation and related facilities, and  
parking mitigation.  
 
Audit and re-evaluate existing Development  
Agreements and consider strategic  
amendments that increase mixed-use, workforce  
and attainable housing, multi-modal connectivity,  
and parking mitigation. 
 
Enhance and expand civic space and  
community activity areas both in and around  
the Richins Building/Transit Center and in other  
locations where neighborhood service, people,  
and community social interaction can be  
connected. 
 
  

Create a People Oriented Built Environment  
Establishing a more traditional street 
and building environment will ensure 
priority is given to the needs of 
pedestrians rather than the 
movement of vehicles. Traditional 
streets are not dominated by large 
parking lots, blank building walls, 
service areas, and utility 
infrastructure. Creating buildings 
with a continuous active edge, with 
doors and windows opening onto the 
street, and parking located behind 
and/or underneath the buildings can 
help encourage comfortable 
pedestrian activity. The goal should 
be to accommodate vehicles in an 
environment built for people.  
 
 
 
 
 
Key Action Points 
 
Ensure all new development proposals are  
designed to first accommodate pedestrians,  
rather than vehicles. Developers should  
provide a written narrative describing how this is 
accomplished as part of the application 
submittal requirements. 
  
Developers should not only consider pedestrian  
connectivity within their development, but also  
those connections to existing routes and  
adjacent developments.  
 
Encourage property owners of existing  
developed projects to enhance the pedestrian  
experience. Elements could include: updating  
existing infrastructure, such as adding missing  
sidewalk connections or adding bike lanes,  
relocating utility boxes, adding benches, and  
landscaping to create gathering areas.  
 
Explore opportunities within Kimball Junction to  
convert streets either permanently or  
seasonally for pedestrian traffic.  
  
Require that all new development proposals  
include provisions to ensure a comfortable  
pedestrian experience. Items such as  
benches, landscaping for shaded areas, and  
trash/recycling receptacles should not be an  
afterthought.  
  
Support ongoing education and training  
opportunities for the Planning Commission,  
Design Review Committees, and the public at  
large to educate them on traditional street  
and building design concepts. 
 
 

Achieve a Seamlessly Connected Neighborhood  
Successful neighborhoods are 
designed to connect people to where 
they want to go in a simple, safe, 
comfortable, and enjoyable manner. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key Action Points 
 
Think of streets and pedestrian connections  
as places. Design them accordingly. 
 
Place highest density where access to transit  
and active-transportation is best. 
 
Partner with UDOT and Park City Municipal  
Corporation to update the 2012 SR-224  
Corridor Study and analyze and identify  
specific projects and programs to improve  
regional north-south vehicular flow through  
the neighborhood. Enhance safe pedestrian,  
bicycle, transit, and vehicular connection  
between the east and west sides of the  
neighborhood and beyond. 
 
Partner with UDOT and property owners to  
complete a connectivity study to analyze  
existing traffic patterns, volumes, land uses,  
directness of routes, existing and future transit  
routes, and active-transportation corridors.  
 
Complete the Active Transportation Plan to  
increase walking, biking, and other non- 
motorized opportunities. 
 
Amend the Summit County Code to implement a  
Complete Streets ordinance to ensure public  
rights-of-way are designed and constructed to  
accommodate all anticipated users including  
pedestrians, bicyclists, transit users, motorists,  
and service/delivery vehicles. 
 
Implement Transportation Demand Strategies to  
increase overall system efficiency of the  
neighborhood transportation system; reduce  
single‐occupant vehicle (SOV) trips and shift  
SOV trips out of peak periods by providing  
incentives and information to encourage and  
help individuals modify their travel behavior at  
peak periods. 
 
Explore aerial tramway/gondola connections  
between Kimball Junction and the Utah Olympic  
Park. 

Create a Walkable Neighborhood  
Human beings became bipedal nearly 
two million years ago. We are good 
walkers.  Successful neighborhoods 
should be designed to reflect this 
skill. Walkable neighborhoods foster 
a diversity of people, uses, and 
experiences.  They are easier to 
move to, move through, and move 
around.  Mixed-Use neighborhoods 
create a greater sense of community.   
 
 
 
 
 
Key Action Points 
 
Promote mixed-use developments with 
people in them throughout the day. 
Develop additional above or below-ground 
pedestrian and non-motorized linkages across 
SR-224.  Connect the east and west sides of 
the neighborhood and integrate uses. 
Consolidate parking areas.  
Strategically locate consolidated parking areas 
proximate to transit facilities and primary 
pedestrian corridors. 
Complete, adopt, and implement the Park City-
Summit County Active Transportation Plan. 
Create a sense-of-arrival at the SR-224/I-80 
gateway which introduces a network of highly 
visual cues that direct people to destinations, 
services, parking, transit, pedestrian, and other 
non-motorized mobility routes. 
Complete, adopt, and implement the Park City-
Summit County Wayfinding Plan. The plan 
should create a full range of wayfinding 
infrastructure for users of all ages and abilities 
using evolving communication technologies 
and media. The plan should also enhance both 
legibility and understanding of the neighborhood 
and help minimize clutter. 
Prohibit drive-thru businesses, gas stations, 
car lots, and blank building walls along primary 
pedestrian and non-motorized routes. 
Install bicycle facilities, including but limited to 
aid/repair stations, bicycle lockers, and racks. 
Develop public space along pedestrian and non-
motorized routes that are safe and desirable to 
be in.  Enliven these spaces with public art and 
activities. 
 
 

Develop Centralized Parking Facilities  
Parking lot location is significant in 
influencing transportation habits, 
since almost all car trips start and 
end in a parking space. When parking 
is concentrated in an appropriately 
located facility, it frees space for 
more offices, restaurants, stores, 
parks, and landscaped areas for 
people to gather. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key Action Points 
 
Parking facilities should be located near 
developments that generate significant 
movement so that the need to travel in an 
automobile will be minimized and the use of 
sustainable transportation modes can be 
maximized. 
 
Conduct a design analysis of the Kimball 
Junction area to determine traffic patterns, 
pedestrian patterns, and appropriate locations 
for centralized parking facilities.  
 
Amend the Snyderville Basin Development 
Code to provide developers with incentives to 
build centralized parking facilities through the 
Master Planned Development process.  
 
Require centralized parking facilities to be 
integrated into the transit infrastructure to 
ensure easy access to the public transit 
system and pedestrian network. 
 
Design parking facilities to meet the needs of 
multiple stake holders.   
 
Incorporate alternative parking solutions 
such as valet parking or mechanical lift systems 
to mitigate the impacts and needs of multiple 
users on the structure.   
 
Design structures to blend architecturally with 
the surrounding area. 
 
Incorporate revenue generating commercial 
uses into the street level of parking facilities.  
 
Incorporate charging stations and other 
facilities for ultra-low emission vehicles. 
 
Create safe and secure facility layouts that 
minimize conflicts between traffic, cyclists, and 
pedestrians. 
 
 

Provide a Variety of Housing Choices  
Housing Choice is a key component 
of a strong and healthy community. 
Kimball Junction housing will meet 
the diverse needs of the region in a 
variety of forms that responds to our 
local context. Providing a variety of 
housing options with a wide range of 
affordability gives people of all social 
and economic backgrounds the 
opportunity to live in a quality built 
environment. 
 
 
 
Key Action Points 
 
Integrate more housing into Kimball Junction to 
create a livable community.  
 
Update the existing affordable housing 
regulations in the Snyderville Basin 
Development Code. Regulations should require 
developers to build affordable units instead of 
contribute in lieu fees.  
 
Continue work with various County entities and  
departments to prepare and adopt a Needs  
Assessment to assess the housing needs of  
Kimball Junction. The Needs Assessment  
should:  
 
• Identify the scale and mix of housing 
and the range of housing types that 
the Kimball Junction population is likely 
to need over the plan period. 
• Address the need for different groups in 
the community such as, but not limited 
to, families with children, the elderly, 
and people with disabilities. 
• Establish realistic assumptions about 
the availability, suitability and the 
economic viability of land to meet the 
identified need for housing over the plan 
period. 
 
Modify the Snyderville Basin Development Code 
density requirements to promote housing in a 
mix of housing types to appeal to a broad 
market, to promote diversity and make Kimball 
Junction accessible to a wide variety of people. 
 
Develop design guidelines or Code regulations 
that encourage quality construction that 
contributes to public spaces, such as windows 
and doors at the street level, stoops and 
porches, patios, balconies, and high quality 
building materials. 
 
Evaluate the County permitting and fees to 
promote an efficient approval process. 

Make Visual Quality a Top Priority  
How a neighborhood looks affects 
how residents feel about where they 
live, work, and recreate. Creating a 
sense of place greatly depends on 
the quality of the buildings and the 
spaces around them. Uncluttered and 
well-maintained areas that are 
designed for a variety of experiences 
will help create places that are lively 
and pleasant to use.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key Action Points 
 
Implement a Master Planned Development  
process to ensure the visual quality of  
development is integrated appropriately into  
the surrounding context.  
 
Encourage owners of existing developed  
properties to amend Development Agreements  
and associated design advisory documents to  
achieve higher visual quality.  
 
Create a voluntary peer review program  
to review projects through the collective  
experience and knowledge of Kimball  
Junction held by local designers and architects.  
Key themes could vary depending on the project  
scale, but would typically be structured around: 
 
• Building location, height, scale, and 
architecture. 
• Public realm, including public spaces 
and landscaping elements. 
• Ensuring that all details of a project 
are reviewed and taken into 
consideration upfront, not as an 
afterthought (e.g. mailbox locations, 
utility box locations, public furniture 
locations, and dumpster locations). 
• Enhance both legibility and 
understanding of the neighborhood 
and minimize clutter. 
• Consider how a climate responsive 
design would influence the physical 
nature of the built environment.  
Support ongoing education and training 
opportunities for the Planning Commission, 
Design Review Committees, and the public at 
large to educate them on the value of good 
design.  
 
 

Create a Sustainable Community  
Sustainable Growth is more than 
promoting environmentally friendly 
policies and regulations; it is about 
making positive economic, 
environmental and social progress 
for this and future generations.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key Action Points 
 
Support Summit County’s transition to a low 
carbon future in a changing climate, encourage 
the reuse of existing resources, including 
adaptive reuse of existing buildings, and 
encourage the use of renewable resources. 
 
Promote the vitality of Kimball Junction’s 
main commercial spaces and protect the 
natural areas around them.  
 
Amend the Snyderville Basin Development 
Code to better conserve and enhance the 
natural environment, to reduce pollution and 
protect steep slopes, ridgelines, riparian 
corridors, and ground water.   
 
Amend the Snyderville Basin Development 
Code to enhance recycling requirements for 
construction, demolition, and existing 
development.  
 
Amend the Snyderville Basin Development 
Code to enable the reuse of land that has been 
previously developed, provided it is not of high 
environmental value. 
 
Support a pattern of development which 
facilitates the use of a variety of sustainable 
modes of transportation. 
 
Locate developments that generate significant 
movement where the need to travel will be 
minimized and the use of sustainable 
transportation modes can be maximized.  
 
Contribute to building a strong, responsive and 
competitive economy, by ensuring that the 
Snyderville Basin General Plan and 
Development Code support appropriate growth 
and innovation.  
 
Support strong, vibrant and healthy 
communities, by providing the supply of 
housing required to meet the needs of present 
and future generations.  
 
Create a high quality built environment, with 
accessible local services that reflect the 
community’s needs and support its health, 
social, and cultural well-being.  
 
Environment 
Society 
Economy 
Design for Change  
Development needs to be flexible 
enough to respond to future changes 
in demography and lifestyle. This 
means designing for energy and 
resource efficiency, creating 
flexibility in the uses of property, 
public spaces and service 
infrastructure, and introducing new 
approaches to transportation, traffic 
management and parking.  
Sample Design Guide
 
 
Sample Context Analysis
 
1. This development has excellent walking routes within the site, and is well 
connected to the town center. 
2.The project offers a whole range of ‘live-work-play’ opportunities. 
3. This mixed use development offers a choice in terms of housing types, modes 
of transportation and lifestyle. 
4. Residents’ facilities, including gymnasium, sauna and spa, help to provide a 
sense of community. 
5. The retention of mature trees and the refurbishment of existing buildings add a 
sense of heritage, character and identity to the development. 
 
 
 
 
 
Key Action Points 
 
Promote adaptability through development that  
can respond to changing social, technological  
and economic conditions. Projects will be  
required to demonstrate that they work now  
and into the imagined future. Phased projects  
will be required to demonstrate how each phase  
will contribute to an increasing level of  
success.  
 
Promote diversity and choice through a mix of  
compatible developments and uses that work  
together to create viable places responding to  
local needs. Projects will be required to  
demonstrate how the proposed spaces, places  
and uses relate to each other, and how they will  
successfully integrate into the neighborhood  
context.  
 
Promote successful places that meet a variety  
of demands from the widest possible range of  
users, amenities and social groups. Prioritize  
accessibility and require public spaces and  
routes that are attractive, safe, uncluttered and  
work effectively for all in society, including the  
disabled, the elderly and the very young.    
 
Create design advisory documents and  
checklists for mixed use developments that  
promote critical success factors. Where  
necessary, update existing standards to  
address contradictory requirements of the  
Development Code and existing Development  
Agreements. For example; height limitations  
may inhibit the utility of ground floor retail  
spaces that would otherwise facilitate a variety  
of tenant buildouts.    
  
Recognize that both the natural and developed 
worlds continually evolve. In order to create a 
successful built environment, promote a culture 
of continuous learning and adaptability to 
such change. 
 

Neighborhood Engagement  
Successful plans must always 
include a quality neighborhood 
engagement effort. Plans fail when 
property owners, neighborhood 
residents and other important 
community stakeholders feel left out 
of the neighborhood planning and 
design implementation process.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key Action Points 
 
Identify and involve the people and  
organizations with an interest in the focus of  
the engagement. 
 
Identify barriers to public participation and  
engage all segments of the community.  
 
Create a Community Engagement-Public 
Hearing Guide to educate community members 
on the planning and design processes. Provide 
tools and assistance to community members so 
they can be pro-active and effective partners 
in the neighborhood re-creation. 
 
Gather evidence of the needs and available  
resources and use this to agree to the purpose,  
scope, and timescale of the engagement and  
the actions to be taken. 
 
Use clear procedures to enable the  
participants to work with one another  
efficiently and effectively. Ensure necessary  
information is communicated between  
participants.  
 
Provide resources to participants so they can 
actively develop the skills, knowledge, and  
confidence to provide quality ideas and  
solutions. 
 
Ensure that the results of the neighborhood  
engagement are provided to the wider  
community and any agencies affected.   
 
Develop new or collaborative ways of  
implementing neighborhood planning efforts.  
 
Recognize that a clear vision of what would  
make a better neighborhood can only be  
achieved if the “how” is described. Leaders need  
to be motivated to make hard choices to  
implement the “how”. 
 
Actively review progress of the plan and make  
refinements where necessary.  

Existing Challenges and Possible Futures  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



Create a Mixed Use Neighborhood  
Places where residential, retail, 
service and civic uses are connected 
by a network of public spaces 
 
 
 
Existing Challenges and Possible 
Futures:  
 
 
Review and if necessary change existing 
development agreements to allow a greater 
variety of complimentary uses.   
 
Introduce additional uses within the previously 
approved Tech Center site. Consider additional 
residential, retail commercial, and other support 
uses in addition to the already anticipated 
business commercial, office, and research uses. 
Consider also the development of public 
facilities that could compliment, extend or 
replace those uses and services currently found 
at the existing Richins building.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exploit opportunities to add uses within existing 
developments. Review all large lot surface 
parking areas and look for opportunities to 
develop workforce housing within or over 
existing facilities.     
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
Build on the success of existing public spaces. 
Develop new pedestrian plaza areas adjacent to 
ground level retail spaces. Add upper level 
residential uses over commercial area.  
 
 

Create a People Oriented Built Environment  
Ensure priority is given to the needs 
of pedestrians rather than the 
movement of vehicles. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Existing Challenges and Possible  
Futures: 
 
Eliminate drive through uses. A reduction in 
driveways will reduce pedestrian/auto conflicts, 
provide opportunities for wider sidewalks, 
landscape enhancements, and alternative transit 
stop locations.  
 
Enhance existing trails and connections, add 
useful pedestrian oriented street furniture, 
kiosks, and if necessary, buildings. Draw 
attention to trail access points, provide 
wayfinding information and features to 
encourage pedestrian and bicycle mobility.  
 
 
 
Identify areas of urgent need and provide 
improved sidewalks that are safe, uncluttered, 
and work for all segments of society. 
  
Require developments to provide sidewalks of 
sufficient width to provide safe, comfortable, and 
attractive spaces. Increase widths at restaurant 
and café locations to allow sidewalk dining. 
Redesign existing parking areas where angled 
parking can be modified to parallel parking 
thereby allowing an increase in sidewalk widths.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Consider redevelopment of the Richins Building  
site and the possible relocation of the civic uses  
to the west of Landmark Drive. This would allow  
development of pedestrian access and plaza  
areas while reducing existing traffic conflicts.
 

Achieve a Seamlessly Connected Neighborhood  
The neighborhood needs to be easy 
to get to, through, and around.  
 
 
 
Existing Challenges and Possible 
Futures: 
 
The barrier created by SR-224 is the single 
biggest challenge to integrating pedestrian, 
bicycle and transit circulator systems within 
Kimball Junction. The two major intersections, 
designed for auto efficiency create pedestrian 
obstacles north and south as well as east and 
west. 
   
Previous suggestions aimed at reducing existing 
congestion at the I-80 interchange include a 
dedicated flyover connecting I-80 to SR-224, 
lowering SR-224 below grade, a possible relief 
road connecting Kilby Road to Overland Drive 
immediately west of the Powderwood 
Condominiums and many others. All these 
suggestions necessarily emphasize movement 
of passenger vehicles, and always to the future 
detriment of pedestrian connections.  
 
If non-auto connections are being considered 
they need to be given the same level of 
emphasis within the broader transportation plan. 
Trails and sidewalks, bridges and tunnels, 
existing and future, need to be attractors as well 
as merely functional. The mere ability to walk 
between two points indicates a passable. The 
degree to which this route contributes to the 
success of a neighborhood depends on whether 
it is also; accessible, safe, convenient, 
comfortable, and enjoyable.   
  
 
 
  
 
  
 

Create a Walkable Neighborhood  
Design pedestrian friendly projects 
and neighborhoods that are easy to 
move to, through and around. 
 
 
  
 
 
Existing Challenges and Possible 
Futures: 
 
Existing large lot surface parking areas need to 
be reconfigured to provide safer pedestrian 
routes. 
 
Where possible reduce driveway access and 
eliminate parking spaces to create alternative 
pedestrian and bicycle access ways 
 
Widen sidewalks to create plaza spaces that 
allow café dining opportunities - be aware of 
microclimate, consider sun and wind exposure. 
 
 
 
Build on existing successful spaces, develop 
new uses to compliment those spaces. 
 
Central parking facilities need to be easy to find 
and well connected to a pedestrian and bike 
friendly network.  
 
Strengthen and develop connections. Existing 
routes that are neither easy to locate nor simple 
to navigate should be reconfigured. 
 
Develop narrower streets and alleys with 
appropriately scaled boutique retail outlets. 
Explore opportunities to make existing long 
blank facades more permeable: visually and 
physically activated. 
 
Eliminate unnecessary driveways. Consider 
transit stops in lieu, extend existing sidewalk 
connections, and enhance existing 
greenspaces. 
 
Encourage use of the existing trail network by 
providing points of interest, public art, shelter, 
seating, lookout points and wayfinding 
information. Consider all options for crossing 
SR-224: under, surface and overhead by bridge 
or aerial flyover. 
  
Drive-through uses should not be allowed.  

Develop Centralized Parking Facilities  
Structured parking frees surface 
space for a mix of alternative uses. 
Commercial offices and retail, 
restaurants and stores, pocket parks 
and plazas. People spaces.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Existing Challenges and Possible  
Futures: 
 
A parking structure should be considered and 
located on the west side of SR-224, south of the 
existing Richins Building and transit center. This 
location would serve the existing and proposed 
future increase in civic uses and allow commercial 
development of areas that are currently 
underutilized without need for an increase in 
surface parking lots. 
 
Located near to the existing transit center (to be 
possibly redesigned and further developed) this 
parking structure could also act as an intercept 
location for those travelling on to the Utah Olympic 
Park, the ski resorts or Park City via public 
transport. Other uses could be incorporated into 
the structure including ticket offices, information 
booth, and possible tunnel, bridge, or aerial 
tramway connections. This should be looked at as 
an ‘opportunity space’. 
 
The topography of the site provides the ability to 
connect both from the North and from the South on 
different levels of the structure. The narrow side of 
the structure would face SR-224, while the existing 
(and possible future) development of the sites to 
the North and South would mitigate the visible 
impact of what could be a large facility.    
 
A smaller parking structure should also be 
considered on the east side of SR-224. This might 
be located on one of the Redstone development 
surface lots west of the Newpark ‘gateway’. At two 
or three levels of parking this would replace the 
surface lot to the west and south. Appropriate 
development of these lots should encourage more 
pedestrian activity contributing to an increase level 
of commercial success. It is important that the 
failure of the existing pedestrian connections here, 
especially between Redstone and Newpark be 
corrected. 
   
The plan also indicates the possibility of adding a 
workforce housing component on or in the parking 
structure.  
  
 

Provide a Variety of Housing Choices  
 
 
 
 
Existing Challenges and Possible 
Futures: 
 
There is a current demand and a need for a 
variety of housing types. One of the few 
locations within the Snyderville Basin with land 
area to develop housing is the current Tech 
Center. It is possible to introduce a mix of 
housing within the physical constraints of the 
original master plan layout. Mixing medium to 
high density residential uses above or adjacent 
to existing and proposed commercial uses would 
relieve market pressure on peripheral areas of 
the Snyderville Basin.  
 
The map extract (top) shows in diagrammatic 
form the possible variety with alley access town 
house type units, apartments over commercial 
uses and a sheltered housing prototype for the 
elderly. The ability to make easy connections 
with alternative transit options, walking and 
biking opportunities, and close connections to 
existing services provides distinct advantages 
when proposing medium to high density 
residential uses. 
 
Opportunities exist to create pockets of 
additional workforce housing within existing 
developments. The Walmart parking lot is a 
good example of a site that could support the 
development of studio and one bedroom units 
for workers in the immediate vicinity. 
 
The east side of SR-224 is reasonably well 
served by a mix of existing residential uses. 
However, opportunities exist and should be 
taken advantage of when any new development 
or redevelopment is proposed. The supply of 
additional workforce housing in an area where 
employment opportunities exist without the need 
for car ownership is clearly advantageous to the 
neighborhood.   
 

Kimball Junction Neighborhood Planning Area
Future Land Use Map
PRESERVED OPEN SPACE
PRESERVED OPEN SPACE
MIXED USE AREA
¬«224
PRESERVED OPEN SPACE
§¨¦80
Newpark Blvd
Ute Blvd
OlympicParkway
Legend
Subdivision Open Space
´
 
39 
 
NORTH MOUNTAIN
Location 
North Mountain is bordered on the north by the 
Summit County/Morgan County boundary; on 
the east by Bitner Ranch Road; on the south by 
East Canyon Creek and on the west by the Salt 
Lake County/Summit County boundary. 
 
Zoning 
The zoning in this neighborhood is a 
combination of Hillside Stewardship (HS) and 
Mountain Remote (MR). The base density in the 
HS zone is 1 unit per 30 acres. The base density 
in the MR zone is 1 unit per 120 acres.  
 
Neighborhood Description 
The North Mountain neighborhood contains 
large tracts of undeveloped land as well as 
existing subdivided areas for single family 
detached use. There are many miles of 
community trails throughout this neighborhood. 
The topography varies from generally flat to 
steeply sloped and the vegetation also varies 
from sagebrush to more dense hillside trees. 
Streams, wetlands, and other natural resources 
exist in this planning area. There are large tracts 
of preserved, protected open space in this 
neighborhood.  
 
The appropriate long-term character is low 
density single family detached residential uses, 
with  
 
structures appropriately clustered and 
sensitively sited in the mountainous terrain. The 
continuation of recreational opportunities, 
including trails (equestrian, pedestrian, and 
bicycle) and large area of open space suitable 
for the continuation of wildlife in the area are 
encouraged.  
 
Other design considerations include: 
 
• Fencing in the neighborhood is encouraged 
to be ranch style and wildlife sensitive with 
consideration given to the need to safely 
enclose and protect large animals and to 
promote the open character of the area.  
• Curb and gutter is not appropriate in this 
neighborhood; drainage along roadways 
should be consistent with the rural 
character, such as the use of ditches.  
• Streetlights are discouraged within this 
neighborhood, except those used to ensure 
the general health, safety, and welfare of the 
community.  
• Special consideration should be given to the 
use of property located around the protected 
open space to ensure the future 
development won’t diminish the character of 
that open space. 

 
40 
 
OLD RANCH ROAD
Location 
The Old Ranch Road neighborhood is bordered on 
the north by Interstate 80; on the east just past Old 
Ranch Road; on the south by the boundary of Park 
City Municipal; and on the west by the east boundary 
of the existing North Shore, South Shore, Silver 
Springs, and other subdivisions in that vicinity.  
 
Current Zoning 
The zoning in this neighborhood is a combination of 
Rural Residential (RR) and Hillside Stewardship (HS). 
The base density in the RR zone is 1 unit per 20 
acres and the base density in the HS zone is 1 unit 
per 30 acres. 
 
 
 
Neighborhood Description 
The Old Ranch Road neighborhood is a rural, 
residential area that contains mostly large lots for 
single family use. The Swaner Nature Preserve 
makes up approximately 725 acres on the north end 
of the neighborhood.  
 
This planning area contains natural features, such as 
wetlands, stream corridors, agricultural meadows and 
hillsides. The area also contains some historic 
structures and equestrian uses.  It is important to 
recognize the open, equestrian, and agricultural way  
 
of life in order to maintain the mountain-ranching 
feeling. Preservation and enhancement of the existing 
natural resources is an important aspect of this 
neighborhood.  
 
Old Ranch Road is designated as a multi-use 
transportation and recreational corridor as part of a 
neighborhood traffic calming program that has 
become a popular route for horseback riding, 
bicyclists, runners, dog walkers, and for access to the 
Round Valley trailhead and the Swaner Nature 
Preserve. The safety of those using Old Ranch Road, 
including the area residents and the recreational 
users should be taken into consideration. The historic 
character of the winding, narrow Old Ranch Road 
should be preserved, with consideration given to 
widening the road for future trails.  
 
This neighborhood contains numerous existing lots 
that are not located with the boundaries of recorded 
subdivisions and large tracts of agricultural land. It is 
anticipated that development will occur, but it should 
be compatible with the existing large lot single family 
detached dwellings and equestrian uses which would 
be consistent with the open, rural character of the 
area.  
 
Other design considerations include: 
    
• Streetlights are discouraged within this 
neighborhood, except for those used to ensure 
the health, safety, and welfare of the community.  
• In an effort to maintain an open, rural feeling, the 
use of curb and gutter is not appropriate; other 
methods, such as the use of ditches should be 
explored. 
• Fencing in the neighborhood is encouraged to 
be ranch style, wildlife sensitive fencing with 
consideration given to the need to safely enclose 
and protect large animals and to promote the 
open, rural character of the area. Preservation of 
the natural features should be taken into 
consideration with any future development.  
• A neighborhood gateway that reflects the 
character of the area may be considered at each 
end of Old Ranch Road.  
• To minimize traffic and to provide for safety, 
additional road connections from outside Old 
Ranch Road should not be permitted.   
  

Old Ranch Road
Future Land Use Map
§¨¦80
´
Old Ranch Road
WILLOW CREEK PARK
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
HERITAGE AMENITY
PRESERVED OPEN SPACE
MEDIUM DENSITY 
RESIDENTIAL GREENBELT
Old Ranch Road
Cutter Lane
§¨¦80
 
41 
 
QUINN’S JUNCTION
Location 
Quinn’s Junction is generally located at the 
intersection of SR-248 and US-40. It begins on 
the south boundary of the existing Space Place 
Storage units; it is bordered on the east by the 
Rail Trail; it is bordered on the west by US-40.  
 
The southeast section of Quinn’s Junction is 
south of SR-248; it is bordered on the west by 
US-40 and bordered on the east by the Wasatch 
County line; it extends south to the Wasatch 
County line. There is a small section of this 
neighborhood that is located west of US-40 and 
east of the Park City Municipal boundary. 
 
The property located west of US-40 is north of 
SR-248 and is surrounded by property in Park 
City Municipal’s boundary.  
 
Zoning 
The zoning in this neighborhood is a 
combination of Service Commercial (SC), Rural 
Residential (RR), Hillside Stewardship (HS), and 
Mountain Remote (MR). The base density in the 
RR zone is 1 unit per 20 acres; the base density 
in the HS zone is 1 unit per 30 acres; the base 
density in the MR zone is 1 unit per 120 acres. 
The density in the SC zone is determined by the 
ability of the proposed development to meet all 
required development and performance 
standards and criteria set forth in the 
Development Code. 
 
Neighborhood Description 
The property located in the Quinn’s Junction 
neighborhood is relatively flat and very visible 
from SR-248 and US-40. There are existing 
industrial and service commercial uses, a 
stream corridor, large blocks of undeveloped 
land, a small section of the Rail Trail, and a 
significant area containing soils contaminated by 
mine tailings and used for remediation 
elsewhere. 
 
The types of uses in this area support a viable 
economy in Summit County. Recognizing this,  
 
 
the continued use of and the expansion of 
additional service commercial and industrial  
uses should be considered, especially near the 
existing development located in the northeast 
quadrant of SR-248 and US-40. Appropriate 
uses may include general offices, business 
parks, manufacturing, and other service related 
and industrial uses.  
 
The Pace Frontage Road is a popular route for 
bikers. Future development plans should include 
appropriate truck routes to the individual uses 
that are designed to serve the area, while 
ensuring the safety of other users on the 
frontage road. Additional impacts associated 
with industrial uses include noise, odors, dust, 
air quality, and other significant environmental 
concerns. All of these impacts need to be 
evaluated and appropriately mitigated.  
 
This neighborhood is adjacent to Park City 
Municipal and Wasatch County. Ongoing 
communication with these jurisdictions is vital to 
ensure appropriate growth strategies are 
implemented that respond to the needs of each 
community, both individually and on a regional 
level. 
 
 

£¤40
RECREATION / OPEN SPACE
VERY LOW DENSITY
(potential open space)
TRANSPORTATION 
HUB
GREENBELT
Richardson Flats Road
PARK CITY MUNCIPAL
PARK CITY MUNCIPAL
Rail Trail
Quinn's Junction
MIXED USE 
AREA
¬«248
´
Quinns Junction Neighborhood Planning Area
Future Land Use Map
Forestdale Dr
 
42 
 
RASMUSSEN ROAD
Location 
The Rasmussen Road neighborhood is 
bordered on the north by Jeremy Ranch 
Elementary School; on the southwest by 
Interstate 80; on the southeast by the Spring 
Creek Subdivision; and on the northeast it 
extends just beyond East Canyon Creek.  
 
Zoning 
The zoning in this neighborhood is Rural 
Residential. The base density is 1 unit per 20 
acres.  
 
 
     
Neighborhood Description 
The Rasmussen Road corridor is highly visible 
from Interstate 80 and others areas in the 
immediate vicinity. It is considered to be a 
primary entry corridor into the community and 
consists mainly of commercial uses that cater to 
the residents.   
 
There are no existing residential uses in this 
planning area. The current zoning on the 
property is Rural Residential, which is not 
reflective of the current uses, nor is it consistent  
 
 
 
 
with the anticipated future growth pattern. 
Consideration should be given for future mixed-
use developments and flexibility in design 
standards. This may occur through TDR’s, future 
Code amendments and possible rezoning of 
parcels located within the neighborhood.  Prior 
to utilizing TDRs, a neighborhood master plan 
may be developed. Future land use patterns 
should also be context sensitive in terms of 
infrastructure capacity. 
 
It is likely that some areas in the Rasmussen 
Road neighborhood are going to be redeveloped 
in the future as there are only a few remaining 
undeveloped parcels. Development of vacant 
parcels and redevelopment of existing uses are 
encouraged to provide economic vitality and 
more services and employment opportunities for 
area residents.  
 
Because of the close proximity to the Jeremy 
Ranch Elementary School and the residences in 
the adjacent Spring Creek Subdivision, 
pedestrian connections are an important 
consideration for future development.  
 
East Canyon Creek forms the neighborhood’s 
northeast boundary and is an important 
community amenity, not just for this 
neighborhood, but the entire Basin. This corridor 
provides a significant opportunity for a trail 
connection along the north side of the creek 
between Jeremy Ranch and Kimball Junction. 
This trail meets the recreation and non-
motorized transportation needs of area residents 
and businesses and fulfills Policy 4.9 of the 
General Plan as depicted in the Community-
Wide Trails and Master Plan. New development 
or redevelopment of parcels along the corridor 
may provide opportunities for additional 
backcountry trail connections and 
trailhead/trailhead parking locations. Appropriate 
consideration should be given to property 
owners along the corridor who grant trail 
easements as a community contribution and as 
one criterion for incentive density.  

PRESERVED OPEN SPACE
PRESERVED OPEN SPACE
MIXED USE 
AREA
GREENBELT
MIXED USE 
AREA
§¨¦80
´
Rasmussen Neighborhood Planning Area
Future Land Use Map
Legend
Subdivision Open Space
 
43 
 
SILVER CREEK
Location 
The Silver Creek neighborhood is bordered on 
the north and east by the Snyderville 
Basin/Eastern Summit County boundary; on the 
south by I-80; and on the west by the Bitner 
Neighborhood Planning Area boundary. 
 
Zoning 
The zoning in this neighborhood is a 
combination of Rural Residential (RR), Hillside 
Stewardship (HS), Neighborhood Commercial 
(NC), and Community Commercial (CC). The 
base density in the RR zone is 1 unit per 20 
acres; the base density in the HS zone is 1 unit 
per 30 acres; the density in the NC zone allows 
structures to be up to, but not exceed 5,000 
sq.ft.; the base density in the CC zone is 
determined based on the ability of a proposed 
development to meet all required development 
and performance standards and criteria set forth 
in the Development Code.  
 
 
 
Neighborhood Description 
The Silver Creek neighborhood contains mostly 
residential and equestrian uses on large, 
existing subdivided lots, as well as a node of 
existing commercial uses and lots intended to 
serve the needs of the residents of Silver Creek  
 
and the surrounding area. The neighborhood 
contains hillsides and some mountainous terrain 
that is highly visible from I-80 and US-40. There 
is one point of ingress and egress for Silver 
Creek that is accessed from the northern most 
end of the US-40 corridor. 
 
Because of the equestrian and open nature of 
the area, future development should occur in a 
manner that takes into consideration the need 
for equestrian uses, such as trails and other 
facilities and maintaining a low density 
residential use; however, consideration may be 
given for a potential mixed use development 
given the proximity of the neighborhood to the 
Interstate.  
 
There are concerns in this neighborhood 
regarding ingress and egress, water availability, 
and wastewater capacity. Provisions that would 
allow for future transportation alternatives 
resulting in further points of ingress and egress 
for vehicular and emergency services are 
encouraged. This may include a connection from 
the Bitner Neighborhood to the west. Future 
development plans should help facilitate a 
discussion with Service Area #3 regarding the 
availability of water in the neighborhood, as well 
as the extension of a sewer line into the 
neighborhood.  
 
Other design considerations include fencing, 
streetlights, and the use of curb and gutter. 
Fencing in the neighborhood is encouraged to 
be ranch style, wildlife sensitive fencing with 
consideration given to the need to safely 
enclose and protect large animals and to 
promote the open and mountain character of the 
area. Streetlights are generally discouraged in 
this neighborhood except those used to ensure 
the health, safety, and welfare of the community. 
In an effort to maintain an open, rural feeling, the 
use of curb and gutter is not appropriate; other 
methods, such as the use of ditches should be 
explored. 

§¨¦80
£¤40
MIXED USE AREA
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
SilverCreekDrive
´
Silver Creek Neighborhood Planning Area
Future Land Use Map
Whileaway Rd
Wasatch Way
Wasatch Lane
Redden Rd
 
44 
 
THE SUMMIT
Location 
The Summit is located on both the north and 
south sides of I-80. The area on the north begins 
at the Summit Park interchange and extends 
east to the western boundary of The Woods at 
Parley’s Lane subdivision; I-80 forms the 
neighborhoods southern boundary.  
 
The area on the south is bordered on the north 
by I-80. It extends east past Gorgoza Park to 
subdivisions located in the Pinebrook area. It is 
bordered on the south by the boundary of 
Summit Park; and on the west by the Summit 
County/Salt Lake County boundary.  
 
Zoning 
The zoning in this neighborhood is a 
combination of Hillside Stewardship (HS) and 
Mountain Remote (MR). The base density in the 
HS zone is 1 unit per 30 acres. The base density 
in the MR zone is 1 unit per 120 acres.  
 
Neighborhood Description 
The Summit neighborhood is located primarily 
on steep slopes and in dense vegetation, 
including Summit Park and Timberline. Both 
these subdivisions were subdivided and platted 
in the late 50’s to early 60’s, prior to zoning 
regulations in Summit County. The majority of 
the area on the south side of I-80 is subdivided 
and mostly built-out with single family detached 
dwellings. There is also preserved, public open 
space. The area on the north side is mostly 
undeveloped. This planning area is the first 
impression provided to visitors entering Summit 
County from the west.  
 
As most of this planning area was developed 
prior to zoning regulations some of the roads do 
not comply with the current infrastructure 
standards. Efforts should be made in the  
 
 
 
 
future to ensure that existing roads are modified 
to meet the Summit County regulations in order 
to ensure the safety of the residents and other 
users.  
 
Due to the mountainous terrain, including dense 
vegetation and alpine meadows, this area is 
important for wildlife habitat.  
 
Other design considerations include: 
 
• Fencing is typically unnecessary, but where 
needed, should be wildlife sensitive so that it 
does not impede wildlife corridors or wildlife 
access to seasonal ranges, food, shelter, or 
water.  
• Future development patterns should not 
create a hardscape wall effect or result in a 
linear development patterns. Views from the 
frontage road and I-80 should be maintained 
into the project.  
• Drainage areas and hillsides should have 
limited development to help create view 
corridors and accomplish this objective.  
• Special consideration should be given to the 
use of property located around the protected 
open space to ensure that future 
development won’t diminish the character of 
that open space.
  
 
 

PRESERVED OPEN SPACE
RESORT
(Gorgoza Park)
	
MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL WEILENMAN SCHOOL
§¨¦80
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
VERY LOW DENSITY
(potential open space)
Aspen Dr
Matterhorn Dr
Ponderosa Dr
´
Summit Neighborhood Planning Area
Future Land Use Map
Legend
Subdivision Open Space

 
45 
 
TRAILSIDE 
Location 
The Trailside Neighborhood Planning Area is 
bordered on the north by the southern boundary 
of Park Ridge and Highland Estates; on the east 
by US-40; on the south by the southern edge of 
Round Valley; and on the west near Old Ranch 
Road. This neighborhood is the northern portal 
to the greater Park City area 
 
Zoning 
The zoning in this neighborhood is Rural 
Residential (RR) and Hillside Stewardship (HS). 
The base density in the RR zone is 1 unit per 20 
acre. The base density in the HS zone is 1 unit 
per 30 acres.  
 
 
 
Neighborhood Description 
The Trailside Neighborhood Planning Area 
includes Mountain Ranch Estates, Trailside, and 
Silver Summit Subdivisions. It is characterized by 
community open space, parks, a church, an 
elementary school, sports fields, bike-park, non- 
motorized trails, Basin Recreation District offices 
and Maintenance Facilities, and clustered, low- 
 
 
 
 
density detached single family residential 
development.   
 
The north end of the planning area contains mostly 
clustered, detached single family residential lots in 
existing, platted subdivisions nearing build out. The 
south end of the neighborhood planning is 
comprised by the greater Round Valley area—a 
deed restricted open space preserve containing 
equestrian hiking and cycling trails, critical 
viewsheds, sensitive lands, and wildlife corridors.  
The viewsheds from this area are an important 
character defining feature of this neighborhood. 
 
The remaining undeveloped lands in the 
neighborhood are critical for maintaining the strong 
and cohesive connectivity of the area. 
 
The objective for this neighborhood is to: 
 
• Preserve the existing public deed- restricted 
open space and recreation areas. 
• Maintain and protect exis ting low-density, low 
profile single family detached residential, open 
space, and public land uses. 
• Prevent development in sensitive lands or 
within critical viewsheds. 
• Mitigate traffic impacts through the 
neighborhood to maintain safety for school, 
parks, pedestrian, equestrian, and cycling 
users. 
• Enhance pedestrian, equestrian, and non-
motorized trail connectivity between 
residential areas, schools, parks, and open 
space areas. 
• Preserve and protect critical wildlife habitat 
and migration corridors. 
• Streetlights and large parking area 
floodlighting should be discouraged within this 
neighborhood, except that which is necessary 
to ensure public safety. 
• Fencing that impedes or adversely affects 
wildlife or wildlife migration patterns should be 
discouraged. 

PRESERVED OPEN SPACE
TRAILSIDE
ELEMENTARY
TRAILSIDE PARK
Trailside Drive
EXISTING CHURCH
MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
´
Trailside Neighborhood Planning Area
Future Land Use Map
§¨¦80
£¤40
Old Ranch Road
PARK CITY MUNICIPAL
Highland Dr
Fairview Dr.
 
46 
 
UTAH OLYMPIC PARK
Location 
The Utah Olympic Park is surrounded by 
property located within the West Mountain 
neighborhood.  
 
Zoning 
The zoning in this neighborhood is Resort 
Center (RC). The density in the RC zone is 
determined through the Specially Planned Area 
process (SPA). 
 
       
Neighborhood Description 
The Utah Olympic Park neighborhood planning 
area consists of an Olympic venue from the 
2002 Winter Olympics and associated resort 
support facilities and features. A portion of the 
facility is located on a hillside that is highly 
visible from many areas within the Snyderville 
Basin.  
 
The goal of this planning area is to ensure that 
training opportunities and support services are 
available and can be sustained for athletes, as 
well as ensuring the Park provides a unique 
opportunity and experience to the surrounding 
community, and the general public. New 
development should be located in the most 
appropriate areas on the site taking into 
consideration topography and views from the 
Kimball Junction area.  
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to resort related facilities, residential 
uses that provide limited housing opportunities 
for athletes as well as workers are appropriate. 
This neighborhood should be designed in 
accordance with the Utah Olympic Park 
Specially Planned Area Development 
Agreement. Should that Agreement expire or 
otherwise no longer be applicable, the following 
design principles should apply to any future 
development. 
 
• Minimization of the visual impacts to the 
Kimball Junction area should be taken into 
consideration when locating future 
development.  
• The mass of larger buildings should be 
broken down into groups of smaller 
buildings, which should be clustered in 
areas that will minimize disturbance to the 
hillsides and other sensitive areas.  
• Future trails and/or trailhead locations 
should be considered in conjunction with the 
Snyderville Basin Special Recreation 
District.  
• Due to the visibility of the neighborhood from 
the Kimball Junction area, efforts to 
minimize lighting should be explored.  
• Buildings should be designed to follow the 
natural terrain and help break up the mass.  
• Due to the variation in topography, rooftop 
designs should be taken into consideration 
as roofs may be visible from above. 
• Existing vegetation should be preserved as 
much as possible.  
• Consideration should be given to flexibility in 
the sign provisions to facilitate potential 
signage that could provide information for 
not only the Utah Olympic Park venue, but 
other community activities as well.  
• Traffic reduction measures are a high 
priority in this area. On-going opportunities 
to provide transportation to and from the 
Park should be explored. 

PRESERVED OPEN SPACE
RESORT
(Utah Olympic Park)
´
Utah Olympic Park
Future Land Use Map
¬«224
Legend
Subdivision Open Space

 
47 
 
WEST MOUNTAIN
Location 
West Mountain is located in 2 different areas. The first 
area is bordered on the north by the southern 
boundaries of Summit Park, Pineridge, and other 
adjacent subdivisions. It extends to the east, to the 
western boundary of the Park City Tech Center and 
includes the property surrounding the Utah Olympic 
Park; it continues south to the northern border of 
Canyons Resort; it is bordered on the west by the 
Summit County/Salt Lake County boundary. 
 
The second area is bordered on the north by SR-224; on 
the east and south by the Summit County/Park City 
boundary; and on the west by the eastern boundary of 
property located in Canyons Resort.  
 
Zoning 
The zoning in this neighborhood is a combination of 
Rural Residential (RR), Hillside Stewardship (HS), and 
Mountain Remote (MR). The base density in the RR 
zone is 1 unit per 20 acres. The base density in the HS 
zone is 1 unit per 30 acres. The base density in the MR 
zone is 1 unit per 120 acres.  
 
 
 
        
Neighborhood Description 
The West Mountain neighborhood is generally a remote, 
mountainous area that contains varying degrees of 
topography, wildlife habitat, and sensitive and critical 
areas, with little to no development. There is a large area 
of preserved, public open space located in this 
neighborhood.  
 
The intent of this Plan is to protect the remote, mountain 
character of this neighborhood and preserve the 
sensitive and critical lands, including existing open 
spaces, trails, recreation, wildlife migration corridors, and 
the scenic qualities.  
 
The appropriate character of the neighborhood includes 
trails (equestrian, pedestrian, and bicycle), equestrian 
uses and facilities, large lot single family detached 
dwellings, and other uses that are both compatible with 
and preserve the mountain and open character of the 
land.  
 
While development should be placed on the periphery of 
open spaces, efforts should be made to minimize the 
removal or disturbance of trees and hillside shrub 
vegetation. Protection of wildlife and the enhancement of 
wildlife habitats should be a high priority in this area.  
 
Other design considerations include: 
 
• Traffic speeds should be consistent with the remote 
mountain character of the neighborhood, which 
could include narrow pavement surfaces and curves 
at appropriate locations.  
• Fencing in the neighborhood is encouraged to be 
ranch style and wildlife sensitive with consideration 
given to the need to safely enclose and protect large 
animals and to promote the open character of the 
area.  
• Curb and gutter is not appropriate in this 
neighborhood; drainage along roadways should be 
consistent with the rural character, such as the use 
of ditches.  
• Special consideration should be given to the use of 
property located around the protected open space to 
ensure the future development won’t diminish the 
character of that open space.  
