SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 950

AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE MODERATE INCOME HOUSING PLAN INTO THE SNYDERVILLE BASIN
GENERAL PLAN

PREAMBLE

WHEREAS, Utah Code Annotated (“UCA”) § 17-27a-401 requires that each county prepare and
adopt a comprehensive, long-range general plan for present and future needs of the county and for
growth and development of all or any part of the land within the unincorporated portions of the
county; and

WHEREAS, House Bill 462, Utah Housing and Affordability Amendments was approved during the
2022 legislative session and requires Summit County to adopt a moderate-income housing element
that provides a realistic opportunity to meet the need for additional moderate-income housing
within the next five years; and

WHEREAS, the moderate income housing plan must be adopted into the General Plan by October 1,
2022; and,

WHEREAS, based on Summit County’s population, the county is required to include at least three or
more (out of 23) strategies in the General Plan.

WHEREAS, because Summit County has adopted a small public transit district, one of the county’s
three required strategies must include “Create a housing and transit reinvestment zone pursuant to
Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part 6, Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act.”

WHEREAS, In order to ensure that jurisdictions are establishing concrete steps to increase the stock
of moderate-income housing, each jurisdiction must set a timeline to implement the strategies
outlined in the moderate-income element; and,

WHEREAS the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission held three (3) public hearings and
recommended adoption of the amended sections of the Snyderville Basin General Plan on August
23, 2022; and

a
WHEREAS the Summit County Council held a public hearing on \4+ aI ; and,
NOW, THEREFORE, the County Council of the County of Summit, State of Utah, ordains as follows:

Section1. The Snyderville Basin General Plan is amended as depicted in Exhibit A.

Section 2. Effective Date: This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after publication.

an
Enacted this \G day of Sep62022.

COUNTY COUNCIL
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH

Chris Robinson, Chair

Councilmember Robinson voted Aye
Councilmember Clyde voted Naseitt
Councilmember Armstrong voted Nay
Councilmember Wright voted e
Councilmember Stevens voted Re
ATTEST:

nty Clerk, Summit County, Utah

Approved as to form
Summit County Attorney

py YAS


Chapter 6.1

Moderate Income Housing Element

INTRODUCTION

Rather than being monolithic, moderate-income housing is a multifaceted challenge for
Summit County. It is tied closely to a variety of Snyderville Basin challenges including
extremely high median housing costs; traffic congestion and legacy transportation
issues; availability of sufficient local laborers; business challenges due to lack of
access to labor; an increasingly non-diverse community; a shrinking number of full-
time residents with long-term community and generational ties; increasing
environmental degradation due to increasing development pressures; concerns about
sustainability of air, land, and water natural resources; and the critical need to manage
and limit rapid growth in a County that seeks to preserve open spaces, agricultural and
cultural heritage (collectively, “Critical Concerns”). Accordingly, creating standards and
strategies concerning moderate-income housing in this Chapter would be incomplete,
ineffective, and potentially harmful to the vision and goals of this General Plan as well
as the County Council's vision, values, and strategic goals without carefully evaluating
the impacts of any such standards and strategies on the Critical Concerns to
determine if they will aggravate or mitigate and provide solutions to those Critical
Concerns. All such standards and strategies and the Critical Concerns should
continually be evaluated given the dynamic nature of growth in and on the borders of
the County.

The Summit County Manager, relevant staff as determined by the County Manager,
and the County Council should regularly assess the County’s moderate-income
housing needs and seek to articulate where such housing is most appropriate and for
whom the need is greatest at any given moment always taking into careful
consideration the Critical Concerns (“Moderate-Income Housing. Assessment’). A
priority of any such assessment should seek to identify if housing challenges are
creating significant labor shortages in critical areas such as law enforcement,
emergency medical services, education, doctors and nurses and other health care .
professionals, and local government workforce. In addition, the Moderate-Income
Housing Assessment should examine the needs of long-term resident seniors seeking
to age in place in the County, vulnerable populations, as well as the County’s tourism
industry’s workforce. With respect to tourism workforce, any strategies developed in
this Chapter 6.1 should seek to require major employers to bear some of the burden of
providing employees with housing opportunities as well as reasonable wages that take
into account the high housing costs in resort counties much like the difference in
wages paid in rural Utah compared to San Francisco, California.

External influences also need to be part of the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment,
such as whether nightly rentals are removing long-term housing from the available
housing capacity with a result of hollowing out formerly well-established
neighborhoods, particularly outside of resort cores. Such assessment should consider

60 North Main*P.O. Box 128*Coalville, UT 84017
Phone (435) 336-3123

any moderate-income housing permitted, platted, commenced and/or built since the
prior Moderate-Income Housing Assessment. Careful consideration of where to locate
housing is a fundamental question the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment needs
to examine in each instance with a focus on the Critical Concerns. For example,
building or incentivizing affordable housing in the Snyderville Basin for County
workforce that work primarily in County offices in Coalville requires commuting, which
the moderate-income housing plan should seek to reduce. In addition, approving a
large ratio of market rate housing to obtain a smaller ratio of affordable housing
exacerbates the dearth of affordable housing given the additional services and workers
required to service the market rate housing, and should be avoided.

The critical questions of each Moderate-Income Housing Assessment should include:
for whom, ideal location(s), transit and transportation access, trails access, and
access to services to reduce commuting and car trips, as well an assessment of the
state of each of the Critical Concerns. Those preparing the Moderate-Income
Housing Assessment need to include specific metrics that are transparent, effective,
and easy to understand that can be used to provide of positive or negative impacts
that may be used by the County to adjust the goals and strategies contained in this
Chapter 6.1.

With respect to any and all analyses and changes to land use regulations contained
in this Chapter 6.1, the County should carefully consider the positive and negative
impacts on each of the Critical Concerns to make sure any such changes are likely to
reduce deficits identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment and do not
result in unintended consequences that negatively impact the Critical Concerns.

Moderate income housing is defined as: “Housing occupied or reserved
for occupancy by households with a gross household income equal to
or less than 80% of the median gross income for households of the
same size in the county in which the housing is located.” However,
given that the median gross income for the County is substantially
higher than the national average, consideration should be given to
requiring moderate-income housing that is targeted to lower median
gross income depending upon the intended solutions sought as
identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment.

GOAL: Provide moderate-income housing opportunities that address the
moderate-income housing needs identified in the Moderate-Income
Housing Assessment, as updated in accordance with the Introduction of
this Chapter. Due to already aggressive market rate housing growth
pressures, it is essential that moderate-income housing does not come
as a trade-off for additional market rate housing that may ultimately
increase the moderate-income housing deficit due to the additional
impacts created by the market rate housing and coincident
infrastructure, services, and other needs that generate requirements for
additional workforce. The primary goal should be meaningful reductions
in existing deficits identified in the Moderate-Income Housing

Assessment.

OBJECTIVE A: Develop strategies to facilitate an adequate supply of
moderate-income housing to reduce the identified deficits of housing in
the Snyderville Basin for various moderate and low income groups
living, working, or desiring to work in the Snyderville Basin, all as
identified and prioritized in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment,
as updated, while minimizing negative impacts on the Critical Concerns.

The County shall measure demand and the County’s progress toward
meeting such demand through annual reporting, consistent with the
requirements of Utah law.

STRATEGY A: Identify possible changes to land use regulations
including, Development Code amendments and zoning changes
including, rezones and the creation of new zones, all narrowly tailored
to further the purposes of this Chapter. All such changes should be
targeted to creating appropriate densities necessary to facilitate the
production of moderate-income housing to reduce housing deficits
identified in the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment, as modified,
while minimizing negative impacts on Critical Concerns. All such
strategies should include well-crafted, understandable, and
enforceable deed restrictions to ensure that all such moderate-income
housing meets the goals of this Chapter over the long term.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(A))

Implementation Measure 6.1.1: Annually review, and amend
as necessary, the Development Code moderate-income
housing provisions relating to the Neighborhood Mixed Use
Zone, Town Center Zone, and Resort Center Zone as
necessary to meet the goals and strategies of this Chapter.

Implementation Measure 6.1.2: Commence a study to
determine the suitability of using some or a portion of various
County owned properties for moderate-income housing, to
meet specific needs and deficits identified in the Moderate-
Income Housing Assessment. Such study should take into
consideration the Moderate-Income Housing Assessment as
well as other important County needs and uses for such
properties. Properties found suitable and appropriate for
moderate-income housing development should be considered
for moderate-income housing to meet deficits identified in the
Moderate-Income Housing Assessment but in all instances
any study must make findings concerning the impacts on
Critical Concerns. No County property acquired as public open
space or on which conservation easements have been
granted shall be considered for the purposes contemplated

herein.

Implementation Measure 6.1.3: Review the current mixed-use
zoning and density to determine whether the Moderate-Income
Housing Assessment indicates that additional zones or rezones for
higher density or moderate-income residential development in
commercial or mixed use zones, commercial centers, or
employment centers are required to achieve the purposes of this
Section 6.1.

Implementation Measure 6.1.4: Within a year of the approval of
the Summit County Moderate Income Housing Plan by the State of
Utah, the Planning Commission should:

6.1.4.1: Review the General Plan to identify, plan, and
possibly create additional neighborhood master planned
development and/or redevelopment areas, if and as
necessary, to relieve deficits identified in the Moderate-
Income Housing Assessment, as updated, in accordance
with this Chapter 6.1, and thereafter amend the General
Plan accordingly. Note that such review should take into
account such areas that the County has already identified in
the Snyderville Basin as well as in Eastern Summit County;
and

6.1.4.2: Review the Future Land Use Maps in Chapter
9 of the General Plan to identify and define specific
densities that would be appropriate in mixed use areas
to facilitate the deficits identified in the Moderate-
Income Housing Assessment with careful consideration
of negative and positive impacts on the Critical
Concerns.

Implementation Measure 6.1.5: Within two years of the
approval of the Summit County Moderate Income Housing
Plan by the State of Utah, the Planning Commission should
prepare and submit to the County Council an analysis of the
benefits of creating a moderate-income housing zone district
to address the deficits identified in the Moderate-Income
Housing Assessment, with careful consideration of negative
and positive impacts on the Critical Concerns as a critical part
of such analysis.

Implementation Measure 6.1.6: Review land use regulations, and
amend, as necessary to accomplish the goals and purpose of this
Chapter 6.1, to allow for higher density of new moderate-income
residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near
major transit investment corridors.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(F))

Implementation Measure 6.1.7: Continue to regularly review, and
amend as necessary, the comprehensive long range Snyderville
Basin Transportation Master Plan.

Implementation Measure 6.1.8: Create or allow for, and reduce
regulations related to, internal and detached accessory dwelling
units in residential zones including amending the Development
Code, within one year, to add a definition of Internal Accessory
Dwelling Unit that is consistent with State Code, and to modify
regulations related to accessory dwelling units, both internal and
detached, to facilitate their creation. Establish criteria whereby
reduced parking requirements and removing the minimum land
size required for detached accessory dwelling units, deed-
restricted for workforce/employee housing.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(E))

implementation Measure 6.1.9: Amend the Development Code,
within one year, to require adequate bicycle parking requirements.

Implementation Measure 6.1.10: Amend land use regulations to
allow for the development of Single Room Occupancy (SRO)
housing, group homes, community housing, emergency shelter
and transitional housing, and supported living facilities for the
elderly and persons with special housing needs in residential zone
districts, taking into consideration the proximity to public
transportation, shopping, medical services, and other essential
support services.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(|))

STRATEGY B: Identify and utilize county general fund subsidies or other
sources of revenue to waive construction related fees that are otherwise
generally imposed by the County for the construction or rehabilitation of
moderate-income housing.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(D))

Implementation Measure 6.1.11: Maintain, and annually review,
and amend as necessary, Development Code provisions regarding
fee waivers for moderate-income housing units.

Implementation Measure 6.1.12: Maintain, and annually review,
and amend as necessary, the fee in lieu of constructing moderate-
income housing established in the Development Code.

Implementation Measure 6.1.13: Amend the Development Code,
within one year, to allow fees in lieu that have been collected to

subsidize construction related fees for moderate-income housing
on private property.

STRATEGY C: Implement zoning incentives for moderate-income units in
new developments.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(J))

Implementation Measure 6.1.14: Amend the Development Code,
within two years, to incentivize the creation of moderate-income

housing units such as increased building height, reduced setbacks,
reduced parking standards, and expedited building permit reviews.

Implementation Measure 6.1.15: Maintain the incentive
community benefit criteria for incentive zoning for deed restricted
moderate-income housing in the Town Center and Resort Center
zone districts.

Implementation Measure 6.1.16: Amend the Development Code,
within two years, to incentivize the creation of deed restricted
affordable senior living communities for residents that are 55 years
old or older.

STRATEGY D: Develop and implement measures that hold developers
of moderate-income housing strategies accountable for the
implementation of their strategies, actions, and results. Monitoring
must be transparent with clear, easily understood metrics that enable
the developers, elected officials, and the public to easily understand if
and how progress is being made in implementing the strategy.

Implementation Measure 6.1.17: Require developers of
moderate-income housing to file annual reports with reasonably
detailed criteria that reports the compliance with applicable deed
restrictions; create penalties for failure to comply with such deed
restrictions and related enforcement mechanisms.

Implementation Measure 6.1.18: Create land use regulations
that prohibit nightly rentals of any housing units that are created
using any moderate-income housing incentives or pursuant to
land use regulations created, amended, or modified to facilitate
the creation of moderate-income housing.

Implementation Measure 6.1.19: Following receipt of the
Annual Moderate Income Housing Reporting Form, establish a
stakeholder committee that meets annually with the purpose of
adopting and monitoring specific measures to be used when
evaluating moderate-income housing projects.

Implementation Measure 6.1.20: Develop and implement a
public engagement program to communicate, educate, and
collaboratively problem solve issues related to creating
moderate-income housing in appropriate areas.

Implementation Measure 6.1.21: Annually report the
County's progress toward meeting the moderate-income
housing demand as required by Utah law.

Implementation Measure 6.1.22: Annually review the
number of moderate-income units entitled, permitted, and
constructed against the Moderate-Income Housing
Assessment, as updated.

STRATEGY E: Demonstrate creation of, or participate in, a community
land trust program for moderate-income housing.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(M))

Implementation Measure 6.1.23: Study and implement the
creation of a Summit County Housing Authority and/or regional
housing authority, within one year.

Implementation Measure 6.1.24: Annually meet with local non-
profit organizations who support the creation of and intend to
ensure the long-term affordability of moderate-income housing to
establish on-going cooperation and coordination and to maintain
public/private partnerships.

Implementation Measure 6.1.25: Establish a stakeholder
committee, within one year, comprised of local governments,
community housing agencies, and residents to establish numerical
goals and associated milestones to track and monitor progress of
creating moderate-income housing and to uncover shortfalls.

STRATEGY F: Explore the establishment of a regional housing authority
through joint agreement(s) with one or more other local political
subdivisions for the purpose of combining resources to address common
moderate income housing needs and challenges.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(T))

Implementation Measure 6.1.26: Facilitate discussions with local
political subdivisions to enter into a joint agreement within two
years.

Implementation Measure 6.1.27: Within two years, coordinate
with local political subdivisions to accurately assess regional
moderate-income housing needs, including a regional employment

study.

Implementation Measure 6.1.28: Within one year, coordinate with
local political subdivisions in the developmentand implementation of
regional moderate-income housing strategies.

Implementation Measure 6.1.29: Within one year, coordinate with
local political subdivisions to identify local, state, and federal funding
sources to create moderate-income housing through a regional
housing authority or other forms of cooperation.

STRATEGY G: Demonstrate implementation of any other program or
strategy to address the housing needs of residents of the county who
earn less than 80% of the area median income, including the dedication
of a local funding source to moderate-income housing or the adoption of a
land use ordinance that requires 10% or more of new residential
development in a residential zone be dedicated to moderate-income
housing.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(W))

Implementation Measure 6.1.30: Maintain the requirement that
all new residential development be required to develop or ensure
the development of moderate income housing at a rate of twenty
percent (20%) of the units ina development. The moderate
income housing obligation shall continue to be met concurrently
with the construction of market rate units.

STRATEGY H: Create a housing and transit reinvestment zone (HTRZ)
pursuant to Title 63N, Chapter 3, Part 6, Housing and Transit
Reinvestment Zone Act.

(Utah Code § 17-27a-403(2)(b)ii(Q))

Implementation Measure 6.1.31: Hold community public hearings
to acquire input in the criteria that the County should consider in
selecting a HTRZ within one year.

Implementation Measure 6.1.32: Amend the General Plan and
Development Code to codify HTRZ criteria and establish zones
where HTRZs are allowed within one year after the community
public hearings are closed.

Implementation Measure 6.1.33: Establish a development permit
application process for projects in the HTRZ within one year after
the community public hearings are closed.

