HERRIMAN CITY, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-27

AN ORDINANCE ADDING CHAPTER 13 TO TITLE 7 OF
THE HERRIMAN CODE OF ORDIANCES REGARDING
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES DEPLOYMENT

WHEREAS, the Herriman City Council (“Council”) met in regular session on August 22,
2018, to consider, among other things, adding Chapter 13 to Title 7 of the Herriman Code of
Ordinances regarding small wireless facilities deployment ; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the public comments, the Council has
determined that it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the residents of Herriman
to adopt the ordinance regarding a telecommunications right-of-way.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council as follows that the following
be added as Chapter 13 of Title 7 of the Herriman Code of Ordinances:

7-13-010: Declaration of Finding and Intent

A. Findings Regarding Rights-of-Way. The City finds that the public rights-of-way within the
City:

1. are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in the business and social
life of the City;

2. are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled consistent with that
intent;

3. can be partially occupied by the facilities of Wireless Service providers, to the
enhancement of the health, welfare, and general economic well-being of the City and its
residents;

4. area unique and physically limited resource requiring proper management to maximize
the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the taxpayers of the foregoing uses and to
minimize the inconvenience to and negative effects upon the public from such facilities’
construction, placement, relocation, and maintenance in the rights-of-way.

B. Finding Regarding Compensation. The City finds that the right to occupy portions of the
public rights-of-way for limited times for the business of providing Wireless Services is a
valuable use of a unique public resource that has been acquired and is maintained at great
expense to the City and its taxpayers, and, therefore, the taxpayers of the City should
receive fair and reasonable compensation for use of the rights-of-way.

C. Finding Regarding Local Concern. The City finds that while Wireless Facilities are in part an
extension of interstate commerce, their operations also involve public rights-of-way,
municipal zoning, and vital business and community service, which are of local concern.
The City also finds that it has the proprietary right to determine what persons and entities
are granted permission to use City rights-of-way, and to determine the terms and
conditions of such use.

D. Finding Regarding Promotion of Wireless Services. The City finds that it is in the best
interests of its taxpayers and residents to promote the development Wireless Services, on a
nondiscriminatory basis, responsive to community and public interest, and to assure
availability for municipal, educational and community services.

E. Findings Regarding Minimization of Impacts. The City finds that that towers and other
supporting structures present aesthetic and land use concerns that should be dealt with by
protecting residential and agricultural uses, encouraging collocation, and minimizing the
number of Structures in a manner that does not discourage market access or competition.

F. Findings Regarding Master License Agreement Standards. The City finds entering a Master
License Agreement with Providers:

1. fairly and reasonably compensates the City on a competitively neutral and
nondiscriminatory basis as provided herein;

2. encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions under which providers
may use valuable public property to serve the public;

3. fully protects the public interests and the City from any harm that may flow from such
commercial use of its public rights-of-way;

4. protects the police powers and proprietary authority of the City with respect to its
rights-of-way, in a manner consistent with federal and state law;

5. otherwise protects the public interests in the development and use of the City
infrastructure; and

6. protects the public's investment in improvements in the public rights-of-way.

7-13-020: Purpose and Goals

A. The purpose of this Chapter is to establish requirements for the siting and use of Wireless
Facilities in City-owned rights-of-way in a manner that facilitates the delivery of Wireless
Services within the City, while minimizing associated adverse impacts. The goals of this
Chapter are to:

1. Provide for the managed development and installation, maintenance, modification, and
removal of Wireless Services infrastructure in the City with the fewest number of
Wireless Facilities and Structures to provide adequate wireless communications
coverage, without unreasonably discriminating against Providers of functionally
equivalent services including all of those who install, maintain, and operate Wireless
Facilities.

2. Promote and protect the public health, safety, and welfare, and specifically, protecting
aesthetic values, by reducing the visibility of Wireless Facilities and Structures to the
fullest extent possible through techniques including but not limited to
camouflage/concealment, design techniques, and undergrounding of Wireless Facilities
and the equipment associated therewith, where possible.

3. Encourage the deployment of smaller, less intrusive Wireless Facilities to supplement
existing telecommunications facilities.

4. Encourage the location of Structures in non-residential areas, in a manner that
minimizes the total number of Structures needed throughout the community.

5. Encourage owners and users of antennas and Structures to locate them, to the extent
possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the community is minimized.

6. Enhance the ability of Providers to provide such Wireless Services to the community
quickly, effectively, and efficiently.

7. Effectively manage Wireless Facilities in the public right-of-way.

7-13-030: Scope and Applicability

A. This Chapter shall provide the basic local scheme for providers of Wireless Services and
systems that require the use of City-owned rights-of-way, including providers of both the
system and service, and those providers of the system only.

B. The requirements set forth in this Chapter shall apply to all Wireless Facilities and
Structures located within City-owned right-of-way, and to all applications to locate or
modify Wireless Facilities and Structures within City-owned right-of-way. This Chapter shall
apply to all future Providers and to all Providers in the City prior to the effective date
hereof, whether operating with or without a license.

7-13-040: Definitions

For purposes of this chapter, all terms, phases, words, and their derivatives shall have the
meaning set forth in this section and as defined in Utah Code Ann. §54-21-101 et seq. as
amended. The words “shall” and “will” are mandatory, and “may” is permissive. Words not
defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.

City means Herriman City, Utah.

Collocate means to install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or replace a Wireless Facility on a
Wireless Support Structure or Utility Pole, or, for ground-mounted equipment, adjacent to a
Wireless Support Structure or Utility Pole.

Decorative Pole means a City-owned Utility Pole that is specially designed for an aesthetic
purpose.

Discretionary ROW means any ROW that is adjacent to single-family residential lots, other
multifamily residents, or undeveloped land that is designate for residential use by zoning or
deed restrictions, and is adjacent to a street or thoroughfare that is 60 feet wide or less.

Discretionary Use means (i) the Collocation of a Large Wireless Facility in any ROW, (ii) the
installation of a Wireless Support Structure in any ROW, (iii) the installation of a new Utility Pole
in Discretionary ROW, and (iv) any use that is not a Permitted Use.

Large Wireless Facility means any Wireless Facility that does not qualify as a Small Wireless
Facility or a Micro Wireless Facility.

Master License Agreement means an agreement between a Provider and the City that sets
forth the general terms and conditions pursuant to which the Provider may install and operate
Wireless Facilities in City-owned ROW.

Micro Wireless Facility means a type of Small Wireless Facility that only provides Wi-Fi service,
that does not have exterior antenna longer than 11 inches, and that is no larger in dimension
that 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height, not including the exterior
antenna.

Permitted Right of Way or Permitted ROW means any ROW that is not Discretionary ROW.

Permitted Use means (i) the Collocation of a Small Wireless Facility in any ROW, and (ii) the
installation of a new Utility Pole in Permitted ROW.

Provider means a person that provides Wireless Services to customers, and/or builds or installs
Wireless Facilities.

Right of Way (“ROW”) means the surface of and the space above and below any public street,
road, alley, sidewalk, or other way dedicated to public pedestrian or vehicular use, now or

hereafter existing as such within the City. ROW does not include federal interstate highways or
fixed guideways for public transit.

Site License means a license, approved pursuant to this Chapter, that authorizes a Provider to
install and operate Wireless Facilities in ROW, subject to the terms of this Chapter and a Master
License Agreement.

Small Wireless Facility means a Wireless Facility on which each Provider’s antenna could fit
within an enclosure of no more than six cubic feet in volume, and for which all wireless
equipment associated with the Wireless Facility, whether ground-mounted or pole-mounted, is
cumulatively no more than 28 cubic feet in volume, not including any electric meter,
concealment element, telecommunications demarcation box, grounding equipment, power
transfer switch, cut-off switch, vertical cable run for the connection of power or other service,
wireless Provider antenna, or cable that is immediately adjacent to or directly associated with a
particular Collocation, unless the cable is a wireline backhaul facility (in which case the cable
should be included in calculating the total volume of the associated equipment).

Structure means a Utility Pole or a Wireless Support Structure.

Utility Pole means a pole or similar structure that is in a right-of-way and is or may be used for:
wireline communications, electric distribution, lighting, traffic control, signage, or the
Collocation of a Small Wireless Facility. Utility Pole does not include a Wireless Support
Structure, a structure that supports electric transmission lines, or City-owned power poles.

Wireless Facility means equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communication
between user equipment and a communications network, including a radio transceiver, an
antenna, a coaxial or fiber-optic cable, a regular or backup power supply, or comparable
equipment. Wireless Facility does not include the structure or an improvement on, under, or
within which the equipment is Collocated, or a coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is (i) between
Wireless Support Structures or Utility Poles, (ii) not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with a particular antenna, or a (iii) wireline backhaul facility.

Wireless Service means any service using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed
location of mobile, provided to the public using a Wireless Facility. Wireless Service includes
the use of Wi-Fi.

Wireless Support Structure means an existing or proposed structure that is in a Right-of-Way;
and designed to support or capable of supporting a Wireless Facility, including a monopole,
tower, billboard, or building. Wireless Support Structure does not include a structure designed
solely for the Collocation of a Small Wireless Facility, Utility Poles, or electric power poles
owned by the City or by an Interlocal entity.

7-13-050: License and other Requirements for Use of the ROW

A.

Except to the extent exempted by federal or state law, every Provider must obtain a Site
License for each Wireless Facility and Structure to be constructed or installed in the ROW.
When a Provider applies for a Site License, if the Provider and the City have not already
executed a Master License Agreement, the City will provide the Provider with a copy of the
City’s standard Master License Agreement. The City will not issue any Site Licenses to a
Provider until the Provider and the City have executed a Master License Agreement.

Before offering or providing any services pursuant to the Master License Agreement, a
Provider shall obtain any and all regulatory approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses for
the offering or provision of such services from the appropriate federal, state and local
authorities, if required, and shall submit to the City upon the written request of the City
evidence of all such approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses

The grant of a license to a Provider will not excuse the Provider from obtaining: (i) any other
permit or authorization required for the privilege of transacting and carrying on a business
within the City required by the ordinances and laws of the City; (ii) any other permit,
agreement or authorization required in connection with the use of property or facilities
owned by third parties; or (iii) any other permit or authorization required in connection
with excavating or performing other work in or along the ROW.

7-13-060: Nature of License

A.

A license granted hereunder will not convey title, equitable or legal, in the ROW. A license is
only the right to occupy ROW on a nonexclusive basis for the limited purposes and for the
limited period stated in the license; the right may not be subdivided, assigned, or subleased
except as may be expressly provided in a Master License Agreement.

A Provider’s use of the ROW pursuant to a license granted hereunder, shall be subject to
the prior and continuing right of the City to use any and all parts of the ROW exclusively or
concurrently with any other person or entity, and shall be further subject to all deeds,
easements, dedications, conditions, covenants, restrictions, encumbrances, and claims of
title of record which may affect the ROW.

7-13-070: Master License Agreements

A.

Authority: The City is empowered and authorized to issue nonexclusive licenses governing
the installation, construction, operation, use and maintenance of Wireless Facilities and
Structures in ROW, in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. Any such licenses will
be granted through a Master License Agreement entered into between the City and
Provider, and subsequent Site Licenses that apply and extend the terms of the Master
License Agreement to specific locations in the ROW.

B.

C.

E.

Non-Discrimination: The City shall enter into Master License Agreements with Providers on
a non-discriminatory basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City may negotiate
additional or different terms with different Providers, in the exercise of the City’s
reasonable discretion and pursuant to the City’s reserved police powers and the City’s
proprietary rights in the ROW.

Term: Master License Agreements will be for a term of ten (10) years. Individual Site
Licenses will be for a term of ten (10) years, and will be subject to all the terms and
conditions of the Master License Agreement, as such Master License Agreement may be
renewed and amended from time to time.

Compensation: The Master License Agreement will require the Provider to pay fair and
reasonable compensation to the City, as determined by the City Council, for (i) the
administrative expenses associated with entry into the Master License Agreement and
individual Site Licenses, (ii) the Provider’s use of ROW, including the City’s expenses
associated with maintenance and management of the Provider’s use of ROW, and (iii) other
applicable fees. Specifically, Providers must pay the following fees:

1. Application Fee: In order to offset the cost to the City to review applications, Providers
shall pay a non-refundable Application Fee for Collocating a Small Wireless Facility on an
existing or replacement Utility Pole or Wireless Support Structure the amount of $100
per Collocation. The Application Fee for installing, modifying, or replacing a Utility Pole
in connection with a Permitted Use shall be $250 per Utility Pole. The Application Fee
for installing, modifying, or replacing a Utility Pole in connection with a Discretionary
Use shall be $1,000 per Utility Pole. The Application Fee must be paid at the time the
application is submitted to the City.

2. Site License Fee: In order to offset the cost to the City of inspecting and managing
licensed Wireless Facilities, and to compensate the City for the use of the ROW, the
Master License Agreement will require Providers to pay an annual fee for each Site
License. The Site License Fee shall be the greater of: (i) 3.5% of all gross revenue related
to the Provider’s use of ROW for Small Wireless Facilities, or (ii) $250 annually for each
Small Wireless Facility. In addition for Small Wireless Facilities Collocated on City-owned
Utility Poles, the Site License Fee shall be $50 annually per City-owned Utility Pole.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Site License Fee will be charged to a Provider that is
subject to the Municipal Telecommunications License tax, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §
10-1-401 et seq.

3. Other Fees: Providers must also pay all other applicable fees established in the Herriman
City Municipal Code, specifically including but not limited to fees for excavation permits
and business licensing.

Insurance, Indemnity, and Security: Prior to the execution of Master License Agreement, a
Provider must deposit with the City an irrevocable, unconditional letter of credit or surety
bond as required by the terms of the Master License Agreement, and shall obtain and

provide proof of the insurance coverage required by the Master License Agreement. A
provider shall also indemnify the City as set forth in the Master License Agreement.

7-13-080: Site License Application

A. Application Requirements: To be considered for a Site License, a Provider must submit an
application to the Community Development Department. The application must include the
following information:

1. The type of Site License sought, e.g., Collocation of Small Wireless Facility, Collocation of
Large Wireless Facility, installation of new Utility Pole, or installation of new Wireless
Support Structure. If the Site License is a for a Collocation, the application must
designate the type of Structure on which the Wireless Facility will be mounted, e.g.,
existing Utility Pole or Wireless Support Structure, an existing City-owned Utility Pole,
etc.

2. The location of the proposed Wireless Facility or Structure, including the designation of
the proposed ROW as Permitted or Discretionary.

3. Ascaled site plan, rendering or photo simulation, scaled elevation view and other
supporting drawings and calculations, showing the location and dimension of all
improvements. The submittal must include sufficient information to determine
compliance with the standards and requirements of this Chapter, specifically including
information concerning Structure height and location within the ROW, compliance with
the City’s intersection and driveway sight distance standards, and compliance with the
Americans with Disabilities Act.

4. An industry-standard pole load analysis indicating that the Structure on which the
Wireless Facilities will be mounted will safely support the load.

B. Avoiding Redundant Submittals. The Community Development Department may allow a
Provider to maintain on file with the City any documentation that would otherwise be
required for each individual application, such as basic Wireless Facility design documents
and pole load analyses. The Provider must update any such information as necessary to
keep it current.

C. If a Provider desires to be exempted from the Site License Fee, the Provider must submit
evidence that the Provider is subject to the Municipal Telecommunications License Tax
pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-1-401 et seq.

D. The City may require the applicant to submit additional information for any application for a
Site License for a Discretionary Use.

7-13-090: Standards Applicable to Wireless Facilities in Rights of Way

The following standards, requirements, and prohibitions apply to all Wireless Facilities licensed
pursuant to this Chapter.

A.

Height. The maximum height of new or modified Structures, including the antenna and any
part of the Small Wireless Facility mounted on the Structure, is 50 feet above ground level
at the point of installation. The antenna of a Wireless Facility may not extend more than 10
feet above the top of an existing Structure. All equipment mounted on new or existing
Structures must be mounted at least 8 feet above ground level.

Placement. Wireless Facilities and new Structures must be placed in locations that will not:
(i) obstruct or hinder the usual travel or public safety on the ROW; (ii) create a public health
or safety hazard, (iii) obstruct, damage, or interfere with another utility facility in the ROW,
or the use of such other utility facilities, (iv) materially interfere with the safe operation of
traffic control equipment, (v) materially interfere with a sight line or a clear zone for
transportation or pedestrians, (vi) materially interfere with compliance with the Americans
with Disabilities Act, and (vii) violate applicable laws or legal obligations.

Design Requirements. The design of Wireless Facilities and new Structures must comply
with all standards adopted by the City, and be architecturally integrated with existing
buildings, structures and landscaping, including considerations of height, color, style,
massing, placement, design and shape, such that they do not stand out when viewed with
the naked eye. Exposed cabling will not be permitted. Horizontal protrusions from the
Structure must not exceed 2 feet. New Structures must be of monopole design; lattice
Structures will not be permitted. Wooden Structures will not be permitted.

Additional Design Requirements in Town Center Zone. In order to maintain the historic
character of the Town Center zoning district, all Wireless Facilities and new Structures in the
Town Center zone must employ screening, concealment, camouflage, or other stealth
techniques to minimize visual impacts.

Electrical Service. Providers will be solely responsible for establishing electrical power
services for their Wireless Facilities and for the payment of all electrical utility charges to
the applicable electric service provider based upon applicable tariffs.

Undergrounding of Lines. All communication and electrical power lines serving Wireless
Facilities must be located underground, unless the Wireless Facility is Collocated on an
existing Structure that already features above-ground lines, and the owner of the existing
Structure agrees to provide communication or power service to the Wireless Facility
through those existing lines. The City may require that the new electrical power line be
over lashed on the existing electrical power line. Providers may appeal the City’s decision
within 10 days of the date of the notice of violation in accordance with section 7-13-170.

G.

Compliance with Law. All Wireless Facilities must at all times comply with all applicable
federal, state, and local building codes and safety codes and regulations.

Additional Requirements: Wireless Facilities will be subject to any additional requirements
set forth in the applicable Master License Agreement and Site License.

Decorative Poles. New or replacement Utility Poles must be designed to reasonably
conform to the design aesthetic of Decorative Poles in the vicinity, if any.

7-13-100: License Approval of Permitted Uses

A.

The Community Development Department has authority to approve applications for
Permitted Uses. The Community Development Department may deny an application for a
Permitted Use that does not comply with the requirements of this Chapter, specifically
including but not limited to Section 8-13-090. The Community Development Department
shall forward any applications for Discretionary Uses to the Planning Commission.

7-13-110: License Approval of Discretionary Uses

The Planning Commission has authority to approve applications for Discretionary Uses.
An application for a Discretionary Use may be approved w following a public meeting.

The Planning Commission shall not approve an application for a Site License for a
Discretionary Use unless the applicant establishes, by clear and convincing evidence, that
denial of the application would effectively prohibit the applicant from providing Wireless
Service.

If the applicant fails to establish, by clear and convincing evidence, that denial of the
application would effectively prohibit the applicant from providing Wireless Service, the
Planning Commission may still approve an application for a Site License for Discretionary
Use, if the Planning Commission finds that it is in the best interests of the City to do so,
based on considerations of health, safety, or welfare. In making that determination, the
Planning Commission may consider comment from the general public, specifically including
members of the public that reside in the vicinity of the proposed Utility Pole.

The Planning Commission may approve an application for a Site License with conditions that
further the goals of this Chapter, specifically including conditions that minimize any adverse
effect of the Wireless Facility or Structure on adjacent properties.

The applicant shall pay all costs of publication associated with the public hearing called for
in this section.

7-13-120 Modifications of Wireless Facilities

A.

A Provider may not alter, modify, or enlarge a licensed Small Wireless Facility or Utility Pole
without prior written consent from the City. To obtain such consent, the Provider must
submit an application in accordance with Section 7-13-080.

Applications for modifications to Wireless Facilities and Structures will be subject to the
same standards, requirements, and processing deadlines as applications for Collocations.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Provider is not required to submit an application or obtain
consent from the City for the following activities: (i) routine maintenance on a Small
Wireless Facility or Utility Pole, (ii) replacement of a Small Wireless Facility with a Small
Wireless Facility that is substantially similar or smaller in size, and (iii) the installation,
placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement of a Micro Wireless Facility that is
strung on a cable between existing Utility Poles in compliance with the National Electrical
Safety Code. A Provider must provide the City with advance notice of any such activity.

A Provider must apply for an excavation permit in accordance with Title 11, Chapter 6 of the
Herriman City Code for any work that requires excavation or the closure of sidewalks or
vehicular lanes. The requirement to obtain an excavation permit applies even for work that
is exempted from the application process pursuant to Subsection C, above.

Any approved modifications will be documented in a new or amended Site License.

7-13-130 Application Processing

A.

Consolidated Applications. A Provider may submit a consolidated application for the
Collocation of up to 25 Wireless Facilities, so long as the Wireless Facilities are of
substantially the same type, and proposed for Collocation on substantially the same types
of Structures. A Provider may submit a consolidated application for the installation,
modification, or replacement of up to 25 Structures. In any 30 day period, a Provider may
not file more than (i) one consolidated application, or (ii) multiple applications that
collectively seek Site Licenses for a combined total of more than 25 Wireless Facilities and
Structures.

Completeness. Within 30 days after the date when an application is submitted to the City,
the City shall determine whether the application is complete, and shall notify the Provider
of that determination in writing. If the City determines that an application is incomplete,
the City shall specifically identify the missing information in the written notification. The
processing deadline will be tolled from the date when the City sends the written notification
until the date when the Provider submits the missing information. If the Provider does not

submit the missing information within 90 days after the date of the written notification, the
application will expire.

C. Processing Deadlines. The City shall approve or deny applications in accordance with the
following deadlines:

1. Applications for the Collocation of Small Wireless Facilities shall be approved or denied
within 60 days after the day when the City receives a complete application. The City
may extend the deadline by a single additional period of 10 days by sending the
applicant written notice of the extension before the applicable deadline.

2. Applications for new, modified, or replacement Utility Poles shall be approved or denied
within 105 days after the day when the City receives a complete application. The City
may extend the deadline by a single additional period of 10 days by sending the
applicant written notice of the extension before the applicable deadline.

3. Applications for the Collocation of Large Wireless Facilities in the ROW and for the
installation of Wireless Support Structures in the ROW shall be approved or denied
within 150 days after the day when the City receives a complete application. The City
may extend the deadline as the City may deem necessary.

G. Denial. If the City denies an application, the City shall provide the applicant with a written
decision that documents the basis for the denial, and shall send that decision to the
applicant on the next business day that the City denies the application. !f the City denies an
application for one or more Utility Poles, or on or more Small Wireless Facilities in a
consolidated application, the City shall not use that denial as a basis to delay the application
process for any other Utility Pole or Small Wireless Facility in the same consolidated
application.

H. Resubmittal. Within 30 days after the day on which the City denies an application, the
applicant may cure the deficiencies noted in the denial resubmit the application without
paying an application fee. The City shall approve or deny the resubmitted application within
30 days of receipt, and shall limit its review to the deficiencies noted in the original denial
unless the applicant has changed another portion of the application.

|. Installation Deadline. A Site License will expire 270 days after approval if the licensed Small
Wireless Facility or Utility Pole is not installed and operational. The foregoing deadline will
be tolled for any period of time during which the lack of commercial power or
communications facilities delays completion.

7-13-140 Lighting

Only such lighting as is necessary to satisfy FAA requirements is permitted. White strobe
lighting will not be allowed, unless specifically required by the FAA. Security lighting for the

equipment shelters or cabinets and other on the ground ancillary equipment is permitted,
as long as it is appropriately down shielded to keep light within the boundaries of the site.

7-13-150 Maintenance

A Provider shall:

A. Maintain all parts of its wireless communication system in a nondangerous condition
throughout the entire period of its wireless franchise.

B. Maintain its system in accordance with standard prudent engineering practices and
shall conform with all applicable codes and all applicable standards.

7-13-160 Enforcement and remedies

A. The City is responsible for enforcing and administering this chapter, and the City or its
designee, as appointed by the council, is authorized to give any notice required by law or
under any wireless franchise agreement.

B. In the event that an individual or entity violates this chapter, the City will notify the
violating party of the violation and provide 30 days for the party to cure the violation.

C. If the violation is not cured within 30 days, the City may:
1. Fine the violating party $500 per day until the violation is cured; and

2. Terminate or suspend any franchises, permits, or licenses held by the violating
party.

D. If the violation is not cured within 180 days of the City’s notice, the City may remove
and impound the grantee’s equipment until the violation has been cured.

E. The violating entity may appeal the City’s notice of violation within 10 days of the date
of the notice of violation in accordance with section 7-13-170.

7-13-170 Appeal of Administrative Decisions

A. The appeals authority, appointed pursuant to Section 10-4-6 of the Herriman City Code,
shall hear and decide appeals from administrative decisions applying the provisions of this
chapter, specifically including appeals from the denial of a Site License application by the
Community Development Director or the Planning Commission.

B. Acomplete notice of appeal shall be filed within ten (10) calendar days of the decision
which is appealed.

C. An appeal of an administrative decision shall be considered and processed as provided in
this subsection:

1. Acomplete notice of appeal shall be submitted to the city recorder along with the fee, if
any, established by the city in its consolidated fee schedule. The notice of appeal shall
include at least the following information:

a. The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the applicant's
agent, if any;

b. The decision appealed;
c. Grounds for the appeal; and
d. Adescription of the action claimed by the applicant to be incorrect.

2. The hearing will be conducted pursuant to and subject to the processes and standards
set forth in Herriman Code of Ordinances 10-5-234.

HERRIMAN

ATTEST:

orate
s? Ss.
CA orP or eV

ae oN

HERRIMAN
cry
S 1999 x»
4
te of ve


ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2018-27

Herriman City

SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE ADDING CHAPTER 13 TO TITLE 7 OF THE
HERRIMAN CODE OF ORDINANCES REGARDING SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

DEPLOYMENT

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts x
Nicole Martin Absent
Jared Henderson xX xX
Sherrie Ohrn xX
Clint Smith xX

TOTALS 4 1

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 22" day of
August, 2018, on a roll call vote as described above.


ORDINANCE NO. 2018-27
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION

This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 22" day
of August, 2018, with a short summary being published on the 28" day of August 2018, in the
Salt Lake Tribune, a newspaper published in Salt Lake City, Utah. I hereby certify and attest that
the foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings with respect to the ordinance
number referenced above.

Signed this 2"4 day of August 2018

rom, ¢ Recorder


