HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-41

Z2018-013 - HERRIMAN CITY TEXT CHANGE TO THE LAND DEVELOPMENT
CODE TO ESTABLISH AUTO MALL SPECIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to state law, may enact a land use ordinance
establishing regulations for land use and development; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to state law, the Planning Commission shall prepare and recommend
to the City Council the proposed land development code amendment; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least 10 days prior to the
said public hearing to prepare and recommend to the City Council the proposed land development
code text changes; and

WHEREAS, notice ofa Planning Commission public hearing on the land development code
text change was published on September 9, 2018, for an September 20, 2018, public hearing at 7:00
p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission recommended approval of the land development
code text change in the meeting held on September 20, 2018, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council
Chamber; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, the City Council must hold a public meeting;
and

WHEREAS, the City Council public meeting was held on December 12, 2018, at 7:00 p.m.;
and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the land development code text change as recommended by the Planning Commission;

NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council that the following text
change be adopted as a change to the land development code of the City:

Chapter 31
Auto Mall Special District

10-31-010: PURPOSE:

10-31-020: PERMITTED USES:

10-31-030: CONDITIONAL USES:

10-31-040: LOCATION OF AUTO MALL SPECIAL DISTRICT:
10-31-050: SCHEMATIC DEVELOPMENT PLANS:
10-31-0060: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
10-31-070: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS:

10-31-080: INTERIM FACILITIES

10-31-090: SIGNAGE:

10-31-100: PROCEDURES:

10-31-110: EXHIBITS:

10-31-010: PURPOSE:

The purpose of the Auto Mall Special District (AMSD) is to concentrate new and used automobile
sales, and related products and services, within a contiguous master-planned commercial
development located north of 12600 South Street between Mountain View Corridor and Herriman
Main Street. The AMSD also includes the sale of new and used recreational vehicles, all-terrain
vehicles, boats, and related products and services. All land uses within the AMSD shall comply with
the commercial development standards for the C-2 commercial zone, unless specified otherwise
within this chapter.

10-31-020: PERMITTED USES:
Unless otherwise allowed by state law, the following uses are considered permitted uses within the
AMSD:

A. Dealership, automobile, trucks, sales and service (new)

10-31-030: CONDITIONAL USES:
Unless otherwise allowed by state law. the following uses are considered conditional uses within the
AMSD and subject to the standards in section 10-5-11 of this title:

Dealership, automobile, trucks, sales and service (used)

Dealership, recreational vehicle, all-terrain vehicle, boat, sales and service (new)
Dealership, recreational vehicle, all-terrain vehicle, boat, sales and service (used)
Vehicle and equipment rental

GUaOWP>

10-31-0040: APPLICABILITY OF AUTO MALL SPECIAL DISTRICT:
The standards outlined in this chapter shall apply to the development of all parcels or lots that are zoned
AMSD., and located within the boundaries shown in section 10-31-110 exhibit A.

10-31-050: SCHEMATIC DEVELOPMENT PLANS:
Development within the AMSD shall demonstrate substantial compliance with the schematic


development plan shown in section 10-31-110 exhibit B. Development within the AMSD may be

permitted in phases by the planning commission subject to the site plan standards in section 10-5-12

of this title.

10-31-060: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

A. Architectural Design and Materials:

1. Building design and materials for all permitted uses shall be subject to the following:

a. Materials shall be selected which require low maintenance, such as CMU, stone, cultured
stone, metal, stucco, engineering wood, or fiber cement board. Buildings should consist
of at least three different materials.

b. The following materials shall be specifically prohibited:

i) Unpainted, plain concrete walls;
ii) Metal or tin, unless where used as an accent material.

c._Tilt-up concrete construction is permitted.

d. Roofs shall not be exposed unless they are part of the decorative or architectural
treatment of the building, such as parapets, columns, and similar elements.

2. Building design and materials for all conditional uses shall comply with the Commercial

Design Criteria in section 10-12-6(C) of this title.

Lot Coverage: Lot coverage by buildings and covered or semi-enclosed outbuildings shall not

exceed forty percent (40%).
Buffers, Fences, and Walls: As part of the site plan approval process, special buffers, fences, and walls

shall be required to provide separations between public/commercial areas, service, loading, refuse
collection, equipment and/or storage areas.
Building Size: Maximum building size shall be one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet.

Building Height: Maximum building height shall be fifty-five feet (55'). Additional height may

be permitted as conditional use, subject to the following:
L._In evaluating an application for additional building height, the planning commission shall
find that the increased height will result in:
a. Improved site layout and amenities,
b. Architectural features that give the roofline a distinctive form or skyline,
c. Lighting that highlights the architectural detailing of the entire building, but shall not
exceed the maximum lighting standards as described elsewhere within this title, and
2. Additional building height shall be limited to fifteen feet (15').

Parking/Vehicle Storage: The minimum number of parking spaces required shall be four hundred

(400) square feet for every four hundred (400) square feet of public showroom display area for
all auto-related uses. Spaces may be used for customer, employee, inventory or service bays. All
other uses shall provide parking as per current city code.

. New and Used Car Display: Car displays, arrangement of parking spaces, and circulation shall be

H.

at the dealer's option. However, no car displays shall block minimum required clear vision areas
at driveway intersections or block lanes for public safety, egress or fire access. These clear vision
areas and emergency access lanes shall be noted on the proposed site plan.

Security for Display Vehicles: To the extent deemed necessary by individual dealers, curb walls

no higher than sixteen inches (16"), closely spaced concrete bollards, berms, low-security
fencing, and rails may be used. The design must be compatible with project theme and


architectural detailing in other parts of the site.
|. Inventory and Parts Storage Areas: Inventory and parts storage areas shall be provided within
buildings or in screened areas in accordance with subsection C of this section. To the extent
practical, areas for storage should be combined with adjacent dealership properties.
J.__Access and Internal Circulation:

1. Driveway Access: Except where otherwise required for compliance with applicable codes
and for fire lanes, driveways shall be a minimum of twenty-four feet (24') wide, and all
drives shall have a minimum 12.5-foot radius.

2. Service Area Access: Service areas shall have sufficient stacking lanes on site to stack a
minimum of one vehicle per service bay. Stacking lanes shall not block the flow of traffic or
fire access lanes.

K. Fences, Screens and Walls:

|. Fences, screens, and walls shall be compatible and architecturally complementary between
two (2) adjoining sites. This may be achieved by use of similar materials and finishes to the
building, landscaping materials, or other architectural design features.

2. Location of fences shall be compatible with adjoining property users to permit the common
use of gates and accesses.

3. Neither chain link fencing nor plain concrete block fences are permitted.

4. Ten foot (10') screening walls around auto storage areas shall be permitted.

L. Display Pedestals:

1. The number of display pedestals allowed in the front setback shall be one pedestal per one
hundred feet (100') of street frontage or part thereof. The total number of pedestals allowed
on the site may be clustered together to achieve more effective display, sales area, or
circulation.

2. Display pedestals shall be no closer than two feet (2') from a property line.

3. Display pedestals shall meet all clear view requirements of this code and the Herriman City
Engineering Standards.

M. Site Lighting: All outdoor lighting, including street lights and parking lot lights, shall be in
conformance with the requirements of Herriman engineering standards as per section 9-2-2 of

City Code.

10-31-070: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS:

A. Variety: Landscaping shall consist of a variety of trees, shrubs, flowers, and other planted
material, and shall be primarily comprised of water-wise landscaping applications of ground
covers, rock, and mulch.

B. Water Efficiency: All new landscaping and revisions to existing landscape shall incorporate
water-efficient landscape materials.

C. Public Rights Of Way Minimum: A minimum of twenty feet (20’) width of landscaping will be
required along all public rights of way. A minimum of ten feet (10’) width of landscaping will be
required as rear and side yard landscaped areas.

D. Minimum Required Along Mountain View Corridor: A minimum of twenty feet (20’) width of
landscaping will be required along parcels abutting the Mountain View Corridor right of way.

E. Number of Trees within Landscape Easement: Within the required landscape easement along
public and private rights of way, at least one tree shall be planted for every thirty feet (30°) of

frontage.


F. Trees within Parking, Display Areas: Within the internal landscape areas of parking/display

areas, a minimum of one tree shall be planted for every one thousand (1,000) square feet of

parking/display area. Trees may be clustered around the parking area.

G. Common Areas: Landscaping or other side or rear yard barriers or side yards between adjoining

dealership properties may be eliminated if the yard area is used in conjunction with an adjoining

property for common driveways, display or parking.

10-31-080: INTERIM FACILITIES:

A. To facilitate economic development within the city, a dealership may request the use of an

interim structure or facility in the AMSD. Request for use of an interim structure or facility shall

be reviewed and decided by the planning commission, subject to the following:

1.

6.

An interim structure or facility request must be accompanied by a preliminary development
plan that demonstrates compliance with all applicable city codes and regulations upon
completion of the final development plan.

The design and materials of the interim structure or facility shall conform to the aesthetic
values and visual form of the AMSD while fulfilling its temporary purpose.

Use and development of the subject property shall comply with all other requirements of this
chapter, including but not limited to landscaping, screening, signage, paving, access and
internal circulation.

The development plan shall include a phasing schedule, not to exceed three (3) years from
the date of building permit issuance for development of a parcel or lot.

The dealership, or its agent, shall agree to present_an annual report on construction of the
phased development plan to the planning commission.

Failure to comply with phased development plan schedule shall be grounds for permit
revocation as provided in subsection 10-7-7F of this title.

B. For the purpose of this chapter, use of an interim building or facility may not exceed a period of

three (3) years. unless an extension of time is granted by the planning commission, which

extension shall not exceed a period of six (6) months.

10-31-090: SIGNAGE:

Signage is an important component of land use within the AMSD. All signs shall comply with the

city sign ordinance with the following exceptions:

A. General Standards:

1.

Location of all ground mounted signs shall be located to meet the requirements for traffic

2.

safety and visibility and shall be located outside the clear view area.
Illuminated signs shall be internally lighted. Exposed neon is also permitted as an accent or

Le

decorative sign element.
No flat faced box or cabinet type sign with painted copy shall be permitted.

If signage is integrated with an architectural feature of the building, such as a backlit element,

6.

face or column, or a design element that is cast into architectural materials, only the portion
of the sign that is text or corporate logo shall be counted toward the total allowed signage
area.

All banner signs, inflatables, flags, balloons, animated signs, and temporary signs, as allowed

in this text, shall not require an additional sign permit from the city.

B. Permanent Signage:


1. Mountain View Corridor (MVC) Frontage:

a. Two monolithic signs of maximum fifty feet (50') high by fifteen feet (15') wide; and

b.

Each dealer adjacent to MVC may have a sign that complies with the requirements of a

Planned Center sign as found in section 10-27-7.

2. Main Street Frontage:

a.

Each dealer adjacent to Main Street may have a sign that complies with the requirements

of a Planned Center sign as found in section 10-27-7.

3. Private Street Frontage:

a.

Each dealer with frontage on a private street shall be allowed to have monument signs as

allowed in section 10-27-7.

4. Building Signage:

a.

Location: Signs shall be mounted on building facades parallel to and contiguous with the

wall upon which the sign is attached. Signs may be attached to screen walls or service

buildings facing a street.
Quantity: A maximum sign copy area allowance for each facade of a building facing a

public right of way shall be ten percent (10%) of the facade. In the case that a building
fronts a public way on more than one facade, the maximum sign area allowance shall
apply to each facade. A transfer of sign allowance area between facades on the same
building shall not exceed one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the allowed area for
any given facade. Allowed signage area on a facade may be comprised of one or more
individual signs and need not be contiguous.

Construction: Signs shall be internally illuminated, with individual pan channel or

channelume letters, or construction methods with similar intent. Exposed neon as an
accent element, logo or decorative feature is allowed as part of the sign area allowance.

5. On-Site Directional/Destination and Information Signs: On-site signs shall be located as

needed to facilitate internal circulation and destination identification.

C. Temporary Signage:

1. General Standards:

a._ Signs shall not be placed in or over a public right of way.

b. Signs shall not flash, blink, spin, rotate, block traffic visibility. constitute a vehicular or
pedestrian traffic hazard, or cause a public nuisance of any kind.

c. Signs shall not be attached to telephone poles, trees or security gates.

d. Signs must be firmly secured.

e. Signs within a power line easement shall comply with height conditions of the easement.

f. Prior to December 15 of each calendar year, property owners within the AMSD shall
jointly submit to the city a calendar for the coming year of special promotion periods and
holiday promotion periods that establishes "fly dates" for temporary signs, balloons, and
inflatables. Fly dates shall comply with the provisions for special promotion and holiday
promotion periods established in this section.

2. Banners:

a. Flag banners may be placed along frontage streets with a minimum interval spacing of at
least thirty feet (30').

b. Pole banners may be attached to poles and supports.

c. Flag banners may be freestanding feather banners with in-ground supports and spikes.

3. Temporary Sign Devices: The following types of sign devices may be used during the


permitted special promotion and holiday promotion periods:

a. Banners attached to the buildings, not exceeding fifteen percent (15%) of the building
facade and no more than one banner per facade, but temporary building banners shall not
be counted toward maximum allowance for permanent signage:

b. Vehicle decorations, including antenna flags, balloons, windshield paintings, and hood
displays:

c._ Tall balloons designed to attract attention from long distances, including cloud busters
(balloons attached in a series with string or pennant flags) and hot air balloons:

d. Carnival tents:

Search or spotlights; and
f. Inflatable objects for the purpose of advertising a specific product or to bring attention to

a special promotion, such as inflatable mascots, gorillas, bounce houses, and promotional
sponsors.

4. Special Promotion Periods:

a. Property owners within the AMSD may implement jointly up to twenty-one (21) special
promotion periods per calendar year.

b._Each period may not exceed five (5) consecutive days in length.

c. Special promotional periods shall not be combined to run consecutively and must be
separated by nine (9) calendar days between each special promotion period.

d. A sign permit for temporary signage is not required, provided the signage meets the
requirements of this section.

5. Holiday Promotion Periods:

a. Property owners within the AMSD may implement jointly up to nine (9) holiday
promotion periods per calendar year.
b. Unless otherwise noted below, each period may not exceed six (6) consecutive days in
length.
c. Holiday promotional periods may be combined to run consecutively with other special
promotion periods.
d. The following days shall be considered holiday promotion periods:
(1) New Year's Day (January):
(2) Presidents Day (February);
(3) Tax season (April, 7 days):
(4) Memorial Day (May):
(5) 4th of July (July):
(6) 24th of July (July):
(7) Labor Day (September):
(8) Thanksgiving (November): and
(9) End of year/Christmas (December 15 - December 31)

e

10-31-100: PROCEDURE:

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all other procedural requirements, such as applications
for subdivision approval, site plan review, conditional use, and any other permit shall be processed in
accordance with city regulation, policy, or procedure.


10-31-110: EXHIBITS: ‘

A. Auto Mall Special District Boundaries

HERRIMAN BLVD z . a / 126005,
A ¢ ie GER AN ! : LEGACY SPRINGS DR
oe AUTO MALL SPECIAL DISTRICT _,,.... ©
HERRIMAN HERRIMAN CITY ——_


B. Schematic Site Plan

MONUMENT SYS

ze


10-3-5: DEFINITIONS GENERALLY:

DEALERSHIP: AUTOMOBILE, TRUCKS, SALES AND SERVICE (NEW): The use of any
building, land area. or other premises or portion thereof, for the display, or sale of new automobiles,
light trucks or vans, and including any warranty repair work and other repair service conducted as an

accessory USC.

DEALERSHIP: AUTOMOBILE, TRUCKS, SALES AND SERVICE (USED): The use of any
building, land area, or other premises or portion thereof, for the display or sale of used automobiles,
light trucks or vans, and including any warranty repair work and other repair service conducted as an

accessory use.

DEALERSHIP; RECREATIONAL VEHICLE, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE, BOAT OR TRAILER,
SALES AND SERVICE (NEW): The use of any building, land area, or other premises or portion
thereof, for the display, or sale of new recreational vehicles, all-terrain vehicles, boats or trailers, and
including any warranty repair work and other repair service conducted as an accessory use.

DEALERSHIP; RECREATIONAL VEHICLE, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE, BOAT OR TRAILER,
SALES AND SERVICE (USED): The use of any building, land area, or other premises or portion
thereof, for the display, or sale of used recreational vehicles, all-terrain vehicles, boats or trailers, and
including any warranty repair work and other repair service conducted as an accessory use.

MONOLITHIC SIGN: A high profile, on-premise sign where the sign face and supports are within
the same cabinet structure, independent of any building or other structure.

VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT RENTAL-OR-SAEE: An establishment engaged in retatt-or
wholesale-sale-orrentalfrom+the premises, of vehicles or equipment from the premises, along with
incidental service, or maintenance. Typical uses include sales—and rental of new—and—-used
automobiles and trucks, boats, farm equipment, motorcycles, and recreational vehicles; construction
equipment rental yards; and moving trailer rental.

10-8-1: ZONES ESTABLISHED

In order to accomplish the purposes of the Herriman General Plan and this title, the following zones,
along with their accompanying zoning map designations, are hereby established as follows:

H. Special Districts:

AMSD Auto Mall Special District

10-16-1: USES:

Any use showing an empty box for a particular zone or any use not shown on this table is not
permitted. See footnotes for qualifying requirements or use limitations.

Legend:

P = Permitted use C = Conditional use Blank = Not permitted
Zones
Uses C-2 M-1 MU-2
Vehicle and equipment rental-or-sale C P C
PASSED AND APPROVED this 12" day of December 2018.
HERRIMAN
ATTEST: Mister Z Watts

orate
s? S,
(de cor Pa, QV
%

STS

HERRIMAN

oeiry~
1999 x
of Utg


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2018-41
SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING A TEXT CHANGE TO THE LAND
DEVELOPMENT CODE TO ESTABLISH AUTO MALL SPECIAL DISTRICT
REGULATIONS

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts x
Nicole Martin xX xX
Jared Henderson xX xX
Sherrie Ohrn X
Clint Smith x
:

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 12" day of
December, 2018, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2018-41
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION

This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 12" day
of December, 2018, with a short summary being published on the 18" day of December 2018, in
the Salt Lake Tribune, a newspaper published in Salt Lake City, Utah. I hereby certify and attest
that the foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings with respect to the
ordinance number referenced above.

ra
‘A Ore te SS
Uy COMP Oran, iy

Signed this 12" day of December 2018

La oe —
City Recorder


