HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-15

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 2 CHAPTERS 1 THROUGH 6 OF THE
HERRIMAN CODE OF ORDINANCES REGARDING BOARDS AND COMMITTEES
AND ADDING A NEW CHAPTER 7 CREATING A TRAILS COMMITTEE

WHEREAS, the City Council (the “Council”) met in regular meeting on March 28,
2018, to consider, among other things, an ordinance amending title 2 chapters 1 through 6 of the
Herriman Code of Ordinances regarding boards and committees and adding a new chapter 7
Creating a trails committee; and

WHEREAS, Title 2 chapters 1 through 6 creates various boards and committees and the
Council has determined to amend these provisions to create a more consistent process for the
appointment of board or committee members and other modifications; and

WHEREAS, the Council has determined to make the Trails Committee a full fledge
committee rather than a subcommittee of another committee; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council finds that it is in the best interest of
the health, safety, and welfare of the inhabitants of Herriman to amend title 2 chapters | through
6 of the Herriman Code of Ordinances regarding boards and committees and add a new chapter 7
creating a trails committee.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council that title 2 chapters 1
through 6 of the Herriman Code of Ordinances be amended, designated by interlineating the
words to be deleted and underlining the words to be added and a new title 2 chapter 7 be added to
the Herriman Code of Ordinances, all as attached hereto.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 28" day of March, 2018.

HERRIMAN
ATTEST: — David Watts, Mayor

HERRIMAN

-NT


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2018-15
SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 2 CHAPTER 1 THROUGH 6 OF THE
HERRIMAN CODE OF ORDINANCES REGARDING BOARDS AND COMMIYYEES AND
ADDING A NEW CHAPTER 7 CREATING A TRAILS COMMITTEE.

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY

ROLL CALL
NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts Xx
Nicole Martin xX xX
Jared Henderson X
Sherrie Ohrn x
Clint Smith xX xX

This resolution was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 28" day of
March, 2018, on a roll call vote as described above.

Chapter 1
HISTORICAL SOCIETY

-1-1: CREATED:

1-2: GENERAL PURPOSE:

1-3:-MEMBERSHIPTERMS, COMPENSATION AND VACANCY:
1-4: ORGANIZATION, QUORUM AND COMMITTEES:

1-5: AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
1
1
1

-6: MEETINGS:
-7: STAFF SUPPORT:
-8 LIMITATIONS:

2

2-
2-
2-
2-
2-
2-
2-

2-1-1: CREATED:

There is hereby created a commission known as the Herriman historical society. The Herriman
historical society is created pursuant to the authority granted by Utah Code Annotated section 9-8-
102 et seq.

2-1-2: GENERAL PURPOSE:

The purposes of the historical society are to:

A. Encourage the preservation of buildings and related structures of historical and architectural
significance as part of the city's important cultural, educational and economic assets;

B. Encourage proper development and utilization of land and areas adjacent to historical areas and
buildings, and to encourage complimentary, contemporary design and construction;

C. Encourage the protection and enhance the attraction of the city's historic landmarks and buildings
for visitors;

D. Encourage and safeguard the heritage of the city by encouraging the protection of landmarks
representing significant elements of its history;

E. Promote the private and public use of landmarks in historical areas within the city;

F. Increase public awareness of the value of historic, cultural and architectural preservation;

D. Make recommendations to the city council regarding historic, architectural and cultural
preservation;

x

E. Make recommendations to the city council concerning utilization of state, federal or private funds
to promote the preservation of historic, architectural and cultural preservation; and

F. Make recommendations to the city council on policies and ordinances that may encourage
preservation of buildings and related structures of historical and architectural significance.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the historical society shall not have authority to
expend or commit to the expenditure of public funds without city council approval.

2-1-6: MEETINGS:

A. Open Meetings: The historical society shall meet as it deems necessary, and such meetings shall
be open to the public.

B. Rules Of Procedure: The historical society shall adopt policies and procedures for the conduct of
its meetings that it deems necessary for its proper functioning.

2-1-7: STAFF SUPPORT:

The mayer City shall provide the historical society with such administrative staff support and
materials as ithe deems necessary to assist in carrying out its duties and functions.

Chapter 2
COMMUNITY ARTS COUNCIL

2-2-1: PURPOSE:

2-2-2: CREATED:

2-2-3: ORGANIZATION, QUORUM AND COMMITTEES:
2-2-4: TERMS, COMPENSATION AND VACANCY:
2-2-5: JURISDICTIONCITY SUPPORT STAFF:

2-2-6: MEETINGS:

2-2-7 LIMITATIONS:

2-2-78: FUNDING:

2-2-1: PURPOSE:

B. Organization: The arts council may elect a chair, organize committees, and adopt administrative
rules, bylaws and procedures necessary to accomplish its purpose. The arts council shall submit
such rules, bylaws and procedures to the city council for approval.

2-2-4: TERMS, COMPENSATION AND VACANCY:

The arts council shall consist of at least three (3) members, appointed by the mayor,with-the-advice
and-consent-of the city council. Members of the arts council may serve a maximum of three (3)
consecutive terms of three (3) years each. Notwithstanding, the terms of the first members shall be
staggered so that all member's terms do not expire in the same year. All-members-of-the-arts-council
shall-serve-for-a-period-of one-year,after which-atleast-one-third_('/3)-may-be-appointed for-a-period
of one-year, the second-one-third-('/3)-for-a-_period_of two-(2)-years,and-the-third-one-third-(*/s)-fora
period-of three-{3)-years._Thereafter_all-appointments-shall_be for-the-term-of three (3)-years.
Vacancies may be filled by the mayor, with the advice-and consent of the city council, to any
unexpired term or for the full term as the case may be. However,itis-understood-that the
membership-of the-arts-council-may fluctuate-as-provided-above—-Members of the arts council shall
serve without compensation.

2-2-5: JURISDICHONCITY STAFF SUPPORT:

The-arts- council jurisdiction shall-betimited-to:

A.The-purpose-set forth-in-section 2-2-1 of this chapter-and

B-Making recommendations.te the mayor or city council.

The city shall provide the committee with such administrative support staff and materials as it deems
necessary to assist in carrying out the duties and responsibilities of the committee.

2-2-6: MEETINGS:

The-arts-council shall-hold-regular meetings-ateast ence-a-month-to-review-the-business-of-the-arts
councilThe-meetings-shall-be-held-at atime-and-place-to-be-established. The arts council meetings
shall be open to the public.

2-2-7: LIMITATIONS:
The arts council shall not have authority to bind the city or impose any condition on the city or its
citizens and is not vested with authority to make decisions regarding the public's business.

2-2-78: FUNDING:

Funding shall be determined by the city council.

F. Assist in making presentations to the council and other agencies concerning economic
development in the city.

G. Represent economic development committee to civic and governmental organizations whose
purpose is to foster economic development.

H. Recommend projects, legislation, policies, funding allocations, incentives and other measures,
programs and activities for economic development in the city.

|. Initiate, sponsor, and promote involvement, activities, and contributions by the private sector for
the economic development in the city.

J. Perform such other duties and functions as are consistent with this chapter and which are
designed to promote economic development in the city.

2-3-3: MEMBERSHIPTERMS, COMPENSATION, AND VACANCY:

Subject {othe appointment-and-process set forth herein, the committee-shall-be limited-to-city
residents-or-qualified individuals-who-have-demonstrated_an-interestin-_promoting- economic
developmentin-the-city. Members-shall-be-appointed bythe -mayer-with- the advice-and-consent-of
the-city-council.{Ord-1.0-20-4-15-2010)The economic development committee shall consist of at
least three (3) members, appointed by the mayor,with the-advice and-consent-of-the city council.
Such members shall be appointed in a manner providing balance in geographic, professional.
neighborhood and community interests representation. Members of the economic development
committee may serve a maximum of three (3) consecutive terms of three (3) years each.
Notwithstanding, the terms of the first members shall be staggered so that all member's terms do not
expire in the same year. Vacancies may be filled by the mayor_with-the advice and-consent-of-the
city council, to any unexpired term or for the full term as the case may be. Members of the economic
development committee shall serve without compensation.

2-3-4: RULES OF PROCEDUREORGANIZATION, QUORUM AND COMMITTEES:

Fhe-committee-shall-operate in-accordance-with"Robert's Rules Of Order unless-the-committee
develops rules-or-procedures otherwise.

A. Quorum: More than fifty percent (50%) of the economic develooment committee shall constitute a
quorum for conducting business for the economic development committee and the action can be had
upon the vote of the majority present.

B. Organization: The economic development committee may elect a chair, organize committees, and
adopt administrative rules, bylaws and procedures necessary to accomplish its purpose. The
economic development committee shall submit such rules, bylaws and procedures to the city council
for approval.


community emergency response team (CERT)), or federal emergency management agency
(FEMA);

D. Recommend emergency response policy and procedure pertaining to city emergency volunteers;

E. Maintain the organization and coordination necessary for emergency volunteer activation as
directed by city or public safety officials;

F. Provide volunteer support to integrate school, business or church emergency response plans with
existing city, state and county emergency management objectives.

2-4-3: MEMBERSHIP AND ORGANIZATION:

The Be Ready Herriman Committee shall consist of at least three (3) members, appointed by the
mayor.with-the advice-and consent of the city council. The committee shall be limited to city
residents or qualified individuals who have demonstrated an interest in emergency preparedness.
Members of the Be Ready Herriman Committee may serve a maximum of three (3) consecutive
terms of three (3) years each. Notwithstanding, the terms of the first members shall be staggered so
that all member's terms do not expire in the same year. Vacancies may be filled by the mayor_with
the-advice-and-consent of the city council, to any unexpired term or for the full term as the case may
be. Members of the Be Ready Herriman Committee shall serve without compensation. Members
shall be appointed by the mayer with the advice and-consent of the city council. The Be Ready
Herriman committee may create and organize various subcommittees and offices.as it deems
necessary to accomplish its purpose.

2-4-4: RULES OF PROCEDUREORGANIZATION, QUORUM AND COMMITTEES:

Fhe-committee-shall-operate-in-accerdance-with"Robert's-Rules-Of Order'-_unless_the committee
develops rules or procedures otherwise.

A. Quorum: More than fifty percent (50%) of the Be Ready Herriman committee shalt constitute a
quorum for conducting business of the Be Ready Herriman Committee and the action can be had
upon the vote of the majority present.

B. Organization: The Be Ready Herriman Committee may elect a chair, organize committees, and
adopt administrative rules, bylaws and procedures necessary to accomplish its purpose. The Be
Ready Herriman Committee shall submit such rules, bylaws and procedures to the city council for

approval.

2-4-5: CITY STAFF SUPPORT:

The city shall provide the committee with such administrative support staff and materials as it deems
necessary to assist in carrying out the duties and responsibilities of the committee.

E. Identify and promote health and safety resources available to residents;

F. Engage in the research and evaluation of information necessary to enhance amenities and events
to promote healthy lifestyles in Herriman.

2-5-3: MEMBERSHIP-AND- ORGANIZATION TERMS, COMPENSATION AND
VACANCY:

The-committee-shall-belimited-to-city_ residents or -quatified individuals who have-demonstrated-_an
interest in-emergency_preparedness._—Mempbers shall be-appointed-by the mayor-with-the-advice-and
consent ef the city council. The Healthy Herriman committee may create and organize various
subcommittees-and-offices-as it deems necessary to-accomplish its purpose.

The Healthy Herriman committee shall consist of at least three (3) members. appointed by the
mayorwith the advice and-consent-of the city council. Such members shall be appointed in a
manner providing balance in geographic, professional, neighborhood and community interests
representation. Members of the healthy Herriman committee may serve a maximum of three (3)
consecutive terms of three (3) years each. Notwithstanding, the terms of the first members shall be
staggered so that all member's terms do not expire in the same year. Vacancies may be filled by the
mayor_with-the-advice-and-consent-of-the city council, to any unexpired term or for the full term as
the case may be. Members of the Healthy Herriman committee shall serve without compensation.

2-5-4: RULES OF PROCEDURE ORGANIZATION, QUORUM AND COMMITTEES:

Fhe-committee-shall-operate in-accordance with"Robert's Rules-Of Order'_unless_the-committee
develops _rules-or- procedures otherwise:

A. Quorum: More than fifty percent (50%) of the Healthy Herriman committee shall constitute a
quorum for conducting business of the Healthy Herriman committee and the action can be had upon
the vote of the majority present.

B. Organization: The Healthy Herriman committee may elect a chair, organize committees, and
adopt administrative rules, bylaws and procedures necessary to accomplish its purpose. The
Healthy Herriman committee shall submit such rules, bylaws and procedures to the city council for

approval

2-5-5: CITY STAFF SUPPORT:

The city shall provide the committee with such administrative support staff and materials as it deems
necessary to assist in carrying out the duties and responsibilities of the committee.

2-5-6: MEETINGS:

The meetings of the Healthy Herriman committee shall be open to the public.

2-6-3: MEMBERSHIP AND ORGANIZATION:

The Herriman community garden committee shall consist of at least three (3) members, appointed
by the mayor, with the advice-and-consent-of the city council. The committee shall be limited to city
residents or qualified individuals who have demonstrated an interest in community gardening.
Members of the Herriman community garden committee may serve a maximum of three (3)
consecutive terms of three (3) years each. Notwithstanding, the terms of the first members shall be
staggered so that all member's terms do not expire in the same year. Vacancies may be filled by the
mayor, with-the-advice-and-consent of the city council, to any unexpired term or for the full term as
the case may be. Members of the Herriman Community garden committee shall serve without

compensation.

Members-shall-be-appointed-by the-mayor with the advice and-consent of the- city council—The
community garden-committee-may-create-and-organize various subcommittees-and-offices-as it
deems necessary to accomplish its purpose.

2-6-4: RULES OF PROCEDURE ORGANIZATION, QUORUM AND COMMITTEES:

Fhe-committee-shall-operate-in-accordance-with"Robert's Rules-Of Order'unless-the-committee
develops-rules-or-procedures-otherwise.

A. Quorum: More than fifty percent (50%) of the Herriman community garden committee shall
constitute a quorum for conducting business of the Herriman community garden committee and the
action can be had upon the vote of the majority present.

B. Organization: The Herriman community garden committee may elect a chair, organize
committees, and adopt administrative rules, bylaws and procedures necessary to accomplish its
purpose. The Herriman community garden committee shall submit such rules, bylaws and
procedures to the city council for approval

2-6-5: CITY STAFF SUPPORT:

The city shall provide the committee with such administrative support staff and materials as it deems
necessary to assist in carrying out the duties and responsibilities of the committee.

2-6-6: MEETINGS:

The meetings of the community garden committee shall be open to the public.

2-6-7: LIMITATIONS:

The community garden committee shall not have authority to bind the city or impose any condition
on the city or its citizens and is not vested with authority to make decisions regarding the public's
business.

manner providing balance in geographic, professional, neighborhood and community interests
representation. Members of the Herriman trails committee may serve a maximum of three (3)
consecutive terms of three (3) years each. Notwithstanding, the terms of the first members shall
be staggered so that all member’s terms do not expire in the same year. Vacancies may be filled
by the mayor-withthe-advice-and-consentofthe city council, to any unexpired term or for the
full term as the case may be, Members of the Herriman Trails committee shall serve without

compensation.

2-5A-4 ORGANIZATION, QUORUM AND COMMITTEES:

A. Quorum: More than fifty percent (50%) of the Herriman Trails committee present
shall constitute a quorum for conducting business of the Herriman Trails committee
and the action can be had upon the vote of the majority present.

B. Organization: The Herriman Trails committee may elect a chair, organize
committees, and adopt administrative rules. bylaws and procedures necessary to
accomplish its purpose. The Herriman Trails committee shall submit such rules,
bylaws and procedures to the city council for approval.

2-5A-5: CITY STAFF SUPPORT:

The city shall provide the Committee with such administrative support staff and materials
as it deems necessary to assist in carrying out the duties and responsibilities of the
committee.

2-5A-6: MEETINGS:

The SebCommittee may hold meetings at such times as the SubCommittee determines is

necessary and as properly called with notice given to each SubCommittee member. The meetings
of the SubCommittee shall be open to the public.

2-5A-7: LIMITATIONS:

The SubCommittee shall not have authority to bind the city or impose any condition on
the city or its citizens and is not vested with authority to make decisions regarding the
public’s business.


