HERRIMAN CITY, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-38

AN ORDINANCE REPEALING CHAPTER 3 ARTICLE A
OF TITLE 3, “ALCOHOL AND BEER”, AND REPLACING
IT WITH A NEW ARTICLE A, “ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES LICENSES”

WHEREAS, the Herriman City Council (“Council”) met in regular session on November
14, 2018, to consider, among other things, repealing Chapter 3 Article A of Title 3, “Alcohol and
Beer”, and replacing it with a new Article A, “Alcoholic Beverages Licenses”; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the public comments, the Council has
determined that it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the residents of Herriman
to adopt the ordinance regarding alcoholic beverage licenses.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council that Chapter 3 Article A of
Title 3, “Alcohol and Beer”, be repealed the following be added as Chapter 3 Article A of Title 3
of the Herriman Code of Ordinances:

Title 3, Chapter 3

Article A.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES LICENSES

3-3A-1: AUTHORITY:

3-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:

3-3A-3: GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS:

3-3A-4: LICENSE APPLICATION, LOCAL CONSENT, EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL:
3-3A-5: ON-PREMISES LICENSES:

3-3A-6: OFF-PREMISES LICENSES:

3-3A-7: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:

3-3A-8: MANUFACTURER LICENSES:

3-3A-9: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS BY A LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT:

3-3A-1: AUTHORITY:

Herriman City may prohibit, except as provided by law, any person from knowingly possessing
any intoxicating alcoholic beverages, and the manufacture, sale, keeping or storing for sale,
offering or exposing for sale, importing, carrying, transporting, advertising, distributing, giving
away, exchanging, dispensing or serving of intoxicating alcoholic beverages. The authority for
this chapter is derived from Utah Code Annotated section 10-8-42 and the Utah Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act.

3-3A-2: DEFINITIONS:

All words and phrases as used in this chapter shall have the following meanings, unless a
different meaning clearly appears from the context:

ACT: The Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act as found in Utah Code Annotated section 32B-
1-101, et seq.

ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: A beverage consisting of beer or liquor as the terms are defined in
this section.

BANQUET: An event that is held at one or more designated locations approved by the City or
on the premises of a hotel, resort facility, sports center, or convention center for which there is a
contract between a person operating a facility listed above and another person and under which
the person operating a facility is required to provide an alcoholic product at the event and at
which foods and alcoholic products may be sold, offered for sale or furnished.

BAR ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE: A license issued to an equity organization, fraternal
organization, or a bar which allows for the storage, sale, service and consumption of on-premises
alcoholic beverages where a variety of on-premises prepared food must be available for the
customer the entire time the bar is open; but, there is no required percentage of food sales.

BEER: A product that contains at least 0.5 percent alcohol by volume, but not more than four
percent (4%) of alcohol by volume or 3.2 percent by weight, and is obtained by fermentation,
infusion, or decoction of any malted grain. Such products may or may not contain hops or other
vegetable products. Beer includes products referred to as beer, ale, porter, stout lager or a malt or
malted beverage. Beer does not include a flavored malt beverage.

BEER-ONLY RESTAURANT LICENSE: An establishment that is issued a license which
allows for the storage, sale, service, and consumption of beer on the premises where the business
is engaged in primarily serving meals to the general public, where patrons may only purchase
beer in conjunction with an order of food that is prepared, sold and served at the restaurant, and
where the restaurant maintains a percentage of the total restaurant business from the sale of food
as required by the Act.

BREWER: Any person or facility engaged in manufacturing beer, heavy beer, or flavored malt
beverage.

CHURCH: A building set apart for the purpose of worship, in which religious services are held,
with which clergy is associated and which is tax exempt under the laws of this State.

CITY: Herriman City.
COMMISSION: The Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission as defined in the Act.

COMMUNITY LOCATION: A public or private school, church, public library, public

playground, or public park.

CONTAINER: A receptacle that contains an alcoholic product, including a bottle, a vessel, or a
similar item.

EMPLOYEE: Any person who is employed by any establishment covered by this chapter during
hours such establishment is open to its members or to the public, whether or not pecuniary
compensation is provided or offered therefor.

EQUITY LICENSE: A license having the same meaning as defined in the Act.

FLAVORED MALT BEVERAGE: A beverage that contains at least 0.5 percent alcohol by
volume, is treated by processing, filtration, or another method of manufacture that is not
generally recognized as a traditional process in the production of a beer as described in 27 CFR
section 25.55 and to which is added a flavor or other ingredient containing alcohol, except for a
hop extract; and for which the producer is required to file a formula for approval with the Federal
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau pursuant to 27 CFR section 25.55, or that is not
exempt under subdivision (f) of 27 CFR section 25.55. A flavored malt beverage is considered
liquor.

FRATERNAL LICENSE: A license having the same meaning as defined in the Act.

FULL-SERVICE HOTEL: A hotel that offers full availability of requisite standardized industry
amenities which are not limited to, but including the following: on-premises restaurant, room
service, business center, concierge, fitness center, banquet halls, various room type selection
such as suites.

FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANT LICENSE: A license that allows for the storage, sale, service,
and consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises of a restaurant that is primarily engaged
in serving meals to the general public, where patrons may only purchase alcoholic beverages in
conjunction with an order of food that is prepared, sold and served at the restaurant, and where
the restaurant maintains a percentage of the total restaurant business from the sale of food as
required by the Act.

HEAVY BEER: A product that contains more than four percent (4%) alcohol by volume and is
obtained by fermentation, infusion, or decoction of malted grain. Heavy beer is considered liquor
for purposes of this chapter.

LICENSED PREMISES: A building, enclosure or room occupied by any person licensed to sell
alcoholic beverages on any premises under this chapter or the Act.

LICENSEE: A person granted a license under this chapter. This term shall also include any
employee, management or personnel of the licensee.

LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANT: A restaurant that is issued a liquor license which allows
for the storage, sale, service, and consumption of wine, beer and heavy beer on the premises

where the business is engaged in primarily serving meals to the general public, where patrons
may only purchase wine, beer, and heavy beer in conjunction with an order of food that is
prepared, sold and served at the restaurant, and where the restaurant maintains a percentage of
the total restaurant business from the sale of food as required by the Act.

LIQUOR: Alcohol or an alcoholic, spirituous, vinous, fermented, malt, or other liquid, or
combination of liquids, a part of which is spirituous, vinous, or fermented, or all other drink, or
drinkable liquid that contains at least 0.5 percent alcohol by volume and is suitable to use for
beverage purposes. "Liquor" includes heavy beer, wine and a flavored malt beverage. "Liquor"
does not include any beverage defined as beer.

MANUFACTURE: To distill, brew, rectify, mix, compound, process, ferment, or otherwise
make an alcoholic product for personal use or for sale or distribution to others.

MANUFACTURER LICENSE: A license granted under the Act, which includes a brewer,
winery or distillery.

MEMBER: A person, who after paying regular dues, has full privileges of an equity licensee or
fraternal licensee under this chapter.

MINOR: Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.

OFF-PREMISES BEER RETAILER: A beer retailer who is licensed and engaged in the retail
sale of beer to a patron for consumption off the beer retailer's premises.

ON-PREMISES BANQUET LICENSE: A license which allows the sale, storage, service and
consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises (not open to the general public) in
connection with a banquet such as a hotel, resort facility, sports center or convention center as
defined in the Act.

ON-PREMISES BEER RETAILER: A beer retailer who is authorized to sell, offer for sale, or
furnish beer under a license issued in accordance with the Act and is engaged in the sale of beer
to a patron for consumption on the beer retailer's premises and is operated as a tavern.

OUTLET: A location other than a State store or package agency where alcoholic beverages are
sold pursuant to a license issued by local authority.

PARK: A piece of public ground that is set apart for the use of the public, whether developed or
undeveloped, and that is usually, or may be, planted with trees, lawns, or other shrubbery. The
park may include facilities for sport, entertainment, dancing, recreation, or swimming, or a park
may be planned for such future use of any and all other facilities. A park may consist solely of a
single purpose facility, either actual or proposed, such as an equestrian park, open-air theater, or
playground. For purposes of this chapter, a golf course is not a park. A trail is not considered a
park for these purposes.

PERSON: An individual, partnership, firm, corporation, limited liability company, association,

business trust, or other form of business enterprise, including a receiver or trustee, and the plural
as well as the singular number, unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed by
the context.

PLAYGROUND: A public, private or neighborhood area which may or may not include play
equipment where children go for physical activity or to play.

PREMISES: Any building, enclosure, designated area, or room used in connection with the sale,
storage, furnishing, manufacture, distribution or consumption of alcoholic product, unless
otherwise defined in this chapter.

PRIVATE EVENT: A specific social, business, or recreational event for which an entire room,
area or hall is leased or rented in advance by an identified group, and that is limited in attendance
to people who are specifically designated and their guest. A private event does not include an
event to which the general public is invited whether for an admission fee or not.

RECEPTION CENTER: A business that operates facilities that are at least five thousand (5,000)
square feet, and has as its primary purpose the leasing of the facilities to a third party for the third
party's event.

RESTAURANT: A business establishment engaged primarily in serving meals at which a variety
of foods are prepared and complete meals are served. For the purposes of this chapter, restaurant
includes a full-service restaurant licensee, a limited-service restaurant licensee, or a beer-only
restaurant licensee.

RETAILER: A person engaged in the sale or distribution of an alcoholic beverage to a consumer.

SCHOOL: A building used primarily for the general education of minors. "School" does not
include a nursery school, an infant day care center, or a trade or a technical school.

SELL, SALE, OR TO SELL: A transaction, exchange, or barter whereby, for consideration, an
alcoholic beverage is either directly or indirectly transferred, solicited, ordered, delivered for
value, or by means or under pretext is promised or obtained, whether done by a person as a
principal, proprietor, or as an agent, servant, or employee, unless otherwise defined in this
chapter or the rules made by the commission.

SERVE: To place an alcoholic product before an individual.

SINGLE EVENT: A convention, civic, or community enterprise conducted by a bona fide
corporation, church, political organization, or association or a recognized subordinate lodge,
chapter, or other local unit thereof. A single event permit includes both a one hundred twenty
(120) hour single event permit, which authorizes the storage, sale, offering for sale, furnishing
and consumption of liquor for a period not to exceed one hundred twenty (120) consecutive
hours; or a seventy two (72) hour single event permit, which authorizes the storage, sale, offering
for sale, furnishing, and consumption of liquor for a period not to exceed seventy two (72)
consecutive hours; or a temporary beer event permit.

SPECIAL USE PERMIT: A permit issued by the commission for the purchase, sale, storage, use,
consumption, or manufacture of alcoholic products in limited types and quantities, and for
limited purposes. Permits may be granted for the following purposes: a religious wine use
permit; an industrial or manufacturing use permit; a scientific or educational use permit; or a
public service permit.

STAFF: An individual who engages in activity governed by this chapter on behalf of a business,
at the request of the business, or under the authority of the business. Staff includes an officer, a
director, an employee, personnel management, an agent including a managing agent, an operator
or a representative.

STATE STORE: A facility for the sale of package liquor located on premises owned or leased by
the State and operated by a State employee. The term "State store" does not apply to a licensee,
permittee, or package agency.

TAVERN: A business establishment that is engaged primarily in the retail sale of beer to a
public patron for consumption on the establishment's premises. "Tavern" includes beer bar,
parlor, lounge, cabaret, and night club if the revenue from the sale of beer exceeds the revenue of
the sale of food, although food need not be sold in the establishment.

TRAIL: A linear corridor of property which is planned as part of the Parks and Trails Master
Plan or recognized as a City facility by the Parks and Trails Master Plan, although not classified
as a park, and maintained by the City for the purpose of recreation and alternate transportation as
a part of the transportation system, thus not designed or intended for use by unaccompanied
small children. A trail is not a park for purposes of this chapter.

WINE: An alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of fruits,
plants, honey, or milk, or other like substance, whether or not another ingredient is added. Wine
is considered liquor for the purposes of this chapter.

3-3A-3: GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS:
A. All licensees shall comply with this chapter, the Act, and the regulations of the commission.

B. No person or business may serve alcohol without first obtaining the local consent and/or
appropriate approvals of the City as well as the required license(s) or permit(s) issued by the
commission. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of selling alcohol within the
city without first obtaining a general business license pursuant to this title and the appropriate
alcohol license from the city. Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
classified under the following types, which shall carry the privileges and responsibilities set forth
in this chapter and the Act:

1. Off-premises beer retailer.

2. Full-service restaurant.

3. Limited-service restaurant.

4, Beer-only restaurant.

5. Bar establishment.

6. On-premises banquet.

7. On-premises beer retailer.

8. Single-event permit.

9. Special use permit.

10. Manufacturer.
C. A separate license shall be required for each place of sale. Each licensee shall display in a
prominent place on the premises the license issued by the City and the license issued by the
commission.
D. In determining compliance with the numerical requirements of this chapter, any computation
resulting in a fractional number, except for proximity requirements, shall be rounded to the

nearest whole number.

E. Conflicts between this chapter and the Act shall be resolved according to Utah Code
Annotated 32B-1-204.

3-3A-4: LICENSE APPLICATION, LOCAL CONSENT, EXPIRATION AND
RENEWAL:

A. License Application Process: A person seeking the issuance of a license under this chapter
shall provide a written application on forms provided by the City. The application shall be
accompanied by:

1. The license fee as set forth in the City's consolidated fee schedule;

2. An approved site plan or conditional use permit or a copy of the applicant's business
license;

3. Evidence of proximity to any community location;

4. A floor plan of the premises, including consumption areas and an area where the
applicant proposes to keep, store and sell alcoholic beverages;

5. A signed consent form stating that the premises will permit any authorized
representative of the commission, City, or County Health Department unrestricted right
to enter the premises;

6. A copy of the dram shop insurance coverage as required by the Act;

7. A copy of a cash, corporate or surety bond in the penal amount established by the Act,
payable to the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control; and

8. Evidence of the applicant's background check, proof of being lawfully present in the
United States and any other information the City may require to accurately evaluate the
merits of the application.

B. Local Consent Procedure: Any application for local consent shall follow the City's application
procedures.

1. Business License Official: Each application for a license shall be referred to the
business license official. Upon receiving a complete application, the business license
official shall submit the request to appropriate City departments for their review and
comment.

2. Distance Requirements:

a. An on-premises banquet license, single-event permit, on-premises beer retailer license,
or bar establishment license shall not be granted to a business located within six hundred
feet (600') of any community location as measured from the nearest patron entrance of
the proposed outlet by following the shortest route of ordinary pedestrian travel to the
property boundary of the community location or within two hundred feet (200") of the
proposed outlet measured in a straight line from the nearest patron entrance of the
proposed outlet to the nearest property boundary of the community location.

b. A beer-only restaurant, full-service restaurant, or limited-service restaurant license
shall not be granted to any applicant for any location situated within three hundred feet
(300') of any community location as measured from the nearest patron entrance of the
proposed restaurant by following the shortest route of ordinary pedestrian travel to the
property boundary of the community location or within two hundred feet (200') of the
proposed restaurant measured in a straight line from the nearest patron entrance of the
proposed restaurant to the nearest property boundary of the community location.

3. City Council Approval:
a. The request for local consent shall be reviewed by the City Council at a regularly

scheduled meeting not more than forty five (45) days after a complete application is
received.

b. After review of the request and accompanying information, the Council shall vote on
whether to grant its consent for the issuance of the license.

c. In deciding whether to grant or deny local consent, the City may also consider the
proximity of any educational, religious, or recreational facility, or any other relevant
factor in reaching a decision on a proposed location.

d. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an application for a single-event permit in conjunction
with a regularly-conducted festival or event which, in previous years, received single-
event permit approval from the City, may be approved by the Community Development
Director upon a showing the applicant has not violated a provision of this chapter or the
Act since the issuance of the last license and that the application meets current
ordinances, rules and regulations.

C. Issuance Of License: The City shall issue a license upon compliance with the requirements of
this chapter and the applicant providing proof of the issuance of the appropriate license by the
commission.

D. Expiration: Licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall expire each year on
the last day of the month in which the license was originally issued.

E. Renewal:

1. Renewal Generally: Licenses shall be issued for one year from the date of expiration shown in
subsection D of this section. To implement the expiration date of existing licenses, the initial
license renewal for licenses existing on the effective date of this chapter shall be prorated to the
next expiration date. In the event renewal fees are not received at the office of the license official
within forty five (45) days after the due date each year, the licensee must reapply for the
applicable retail license and pay a penalty of twenty five percent (25%) of the regulatory fees due
as part of the re-issuance fee, in addition to the applicable regulatory license fees. In the event
the renewal fees are not received at the office of the license official within seventy five (75) days
of each year when due, the licensee must reapply for the applicable license and pay a penalty of
one hundred percent (100%) of the fee due as part of the re-issuance fee, in addition to the
applicable regulatory license fees. Failure to meet the renewal requirements shall result in an
automatic forfeiture of the license effective on the date the existing license expires.

2. Sale; Change In Ownership: If any licensee sells the business, the existing license for that
business shall be canceled. The purchaser of the business may apply for a license to sell
alcoholic beverages in accordance with the procedures and requirements of this chapter. If any
licensee does not immediately notify the City of any change in ownership of business, the City
shall revoke that license.

3. Renewal Information Required: Applications for renewal of licenses issued under this chapter
shall be accompanied by updated information as outlined in subsection A of this section.

4. Fees: Renewal applications for licenses under this chapter shall be accompanied by the City
business license fee and the complete regulatory fees established by the City's consolidated fee
schedule, as amended.

3-3A-5: ON-PREMISES LICENSES:

A. General Operational Restrictions: Each person granted an on-premises banquet, beer-only
restaurant, full-service restaurant, limited-service restaurant, bar establishment, on-premises beer
retailer, or single-event permit and their employees, management and personnel shall abide by
the Act and the following conditions and requirements. Failure to comply may result in
suspension or revocation of the license or other disciplinary action taken against the business,
individual employees, or management personnel.

1. Restaurants: A beer-only restaurant, full-service restaurant, and limited-service restaurant
license shall entitle the licensee to sell alcoholic beverages only with the purchase of food, on the
premises described therein, in containers allowed under the Act. Only bona fide restaurants shall
be entitled to a full-service restaurant, limited-service restaurant, or beer-only restaurant license.

2. Bar Establishment License, On-Premises Banquet License, or Single-Event Permit: A bar
establishment license, on-premises banquet license, or single-event permit shall entitle the
licensee to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises described therein, for consumption only on
the licensed premises.

3. Underage Service: No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall sell or serve
alcoholic beverages.

4. Removal From Premises: Alcoholic beverages shall not be removed from the licensee's
premises except as allowed in accordance with the Act.

5. Bring Onto Premises: Except as otherwise permitted herein, a person shall not bring onto the
premises of an on-premises banquet, beer-only restaurant, full-service restaurant, limited-service
restaurant, single-event or bar establishment any liquor or beer, for on-premises consumption. A
person may bring bottled wine onto the premises of a full-service restaurant, limited-service
restaurant or bar establishment, provided the wine is delivered to a server upon entering the
premises. Officers, managers, employees, or agents shall not allow a person to bring onto the
licensed premises liquor or beer for on-premises consumption or allow consumption of any such
liquor or beverage on its premises. If any licensee or any of its officers, managers, employees, or
agents violates this subsection, the City may immediately suspend or revoke the license.

6. No Consumption While On Duty: An employee of a licensee, while on duty, shall not
consume an alcoholic beverage or be under the influence of alcoholic beverages.

7. License Displayed: Each licensee shall display in a prominent place on the premises:

a. The license issued by the City and the license issued by the commission; and

b. All applicable signs required by the Act.

8. Transfer From Location: There shall be no transfer of a license from one location to another.

9. Transfer From Entity: There shall be no transfer of a license from one entity to another
without approval by the City Council, except that the Community Development Director may
grant a request to transfer an on-premises banquet, beer-only restaurant, full-service restaurant,
limited-service restaurant, or bar establishment license from a current licensee to a proposed
licensee who will operate at the same location, so long as the following conditions are met:

a. The type of alcoholic beverage to be sold is not changed;
b. The on-site management staff has not changed;

c. There have been no citations for alcohol-related offenses issued to either the current
licensee or the proposed licensee within the last two (2) years; and

d. The proposed licensee's application complies in all respects with all other provisions of
this chapter.

B. Specific On-Premises License Restrictions:

1. Full-Service Restaurant, Limited-Service Restaurant And Beer-Only Restaurant Licenses:

a. Licenses Obtained: Before any full-service restaurant, limited-service restaurant, or
beer-only restaurant may sell alcoholic beverages at retail for on-premises consumption,
it shall obtain:

(1) A full-service restaurant, a limited-service restaurant or beer-only restaurant license
from the City as defined in this chapter; and

(2) A full-service restaurant, a limited-service restaurant or beer-only restaurant license
from the commission.

b. Maintain Records: Licensees shall maintain records as per the Act.

c. Restriction On Licenses: There shall be no limitation on the number of full-service or
limited-service, or beer-only restaurant licenses granted by Herriman City.

2. Bar Establishment Licenses:

a. Licenses Obtained: Before any bar establishment including an equity license, a
fraternal license, or a bar may sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption, it
shall obtain:

(1) A bar establishment license from the City; and

(2) A bar establishment license from the commission.

b. Maintain Records: Licensees shall maintain records as per the Act.

c. Restriction On Licenses: The total number of bar establishment licenses in the City
shall not exceed one per each four thousand (4,000) population of the City based on the
latest population estimate provided by the Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget.

3. On-Premises Beer Retailer Licenses:

a. License Types: There are two (2) types of on-premises beer licenses defined by the
Act:

(1) On-premises beer retailer which includes restaurants, cafes, and bowling centers or
golf course food and beverage facilities; and

(2) Taverns, which include beer bars, parlors, lounges, cabarets, or nightclubs.

b. Licenses Obtained: Before any establishment may sell beer at retail for on-premises
consumption, it shall obtain:

(1) An on-premises beer retailer license from the City; and

(2) An on-premises beer retailer license from the commission.

c. Maintain Records: Licensees shall maintain records as per the Act.

d. Restriction On Licenses: The total number of on-premises beer retailer licenses in the
City shall not exceed one per each four thousand (4,000) population of the City based on
the latest population estimate provided by the Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget.

4. On-Premises Banquet Licenses:

a. An on-premises banquet license may only be issued for a hotel, resort facility, sports
center or convention center.

b. Before any on-premises banquet licensee may sell or furnish an alcoholic product at
retail for on-premises consumption, it shall obtain:

(1) An on-premises banquet license from the City; and
(2) An on-premises banquet license from the commission.

c. On-premises banquet licensees shall maintain records as per the Act.

d. There shall be no limitation on the number of on-premises banquet licenses granted by
the City.

5. Single-Event Permits:
a. Number Of Permits: Qualifying organizations may apply for up to four (4) single event
permits per calendar year for a time period that does not exceed one hundred twenty
(120) consecutive hours for each permit; or up to twelve (12) permits per calendar year
for a time period that does not exceed seventy two (72) consecutive hours for each

permit. A single event permit may also include a temporary beer event permit.

b. Permits Obtained: Before any operator, participant or sponsor of a single event may
sell beer or alcohol at retail for on-premises consumption at the event, it shall obtain:

(1) A single-event permit from the City; and

(2) A single-event permit from the commission.

c. Maintain Records: Permittees shall maintain records as per the Act.

d. Limited Duration Of Event: A single-event permit shall not authorize the storage, sale
or consumption of alcoholic beverages at an event for any period exceeding seventy two

(72) hours.

e. Restrictions On Permits: There shall be no limitation on the number of single-event
permits granted by the City.

3-3A-6: OFF-PREMISES LICENSES:

A. General Operational Restrictions: Licensees shall comply with the following operational
restrictions:

1. An off-premises beer retailer shall only purchase, acquire, possess for the purpose of resale, or
sell beer that the off-premises beer retailer lawfully purchases from a beer wholesaler licensee or
a small brewer that manufactures the beer.

2. An off-premises beer retailer may not possess, sell, offer for sale, or furnish beer in a container
larger than two liters (2 L).

3. A minor may not sell beer on the licensed premises unless the sale is done under the
supervision of a person twenty one (21) years of age or older who is on the licensed premises and

the minor is at least sixteen (16) years of age.

4. Adhere to all display and signage requirements established by the commission by rule.

5. Staff who directly supervises the sale of beer or who sells beer to a patron for consumption off
the premises of the off-premises beer retailer shall wear the required identification badges
identified as per the Act.

6. An off-premises licensee may sell beer beginning at the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and
ending at the hour of one o'clock (1:00) A.M.

7. It shall be unlawful for any off-premises licensee to permit the consumption of beer on any
licensed premises or to allow intoxicated persons to remain in or about any licensed premises.

8. Beer may not be sold, delivered, or furnished to any:

a. Minor;

b. Person actually, apparently, or obviously intoxicated;

c. Known interdicted person; or

d. Known habitual drunkard.
9. An off-premises licensee shall make every reasonable effort to limit the potential for theft of
beer from licensed premises. A clear, unobstructed view of all portions of the interior of storage
and display areas shall be available at all times from a point within the licensed premises at or
near the main public entrance. A beer inventory shrinkage record shall be kept by the licensee
and made available at any time upon request to the Chief of Police or Community Development
Director for inspection or audit. Failure of a licensee to properly maintain the alcoholic beverage

inventory shrinkage or failure to submit such records for inspection and audit shall be a Class B
misdemeanor and shall be cause for suspension or revocation of an off-premises license.

10. There shall be no transfer of an off-premises license from one location to another.
11. There shall be no transfer of an off-premises license from one entity to another without
approval by the City Council, except that the Community Development Director may grant a
request to transfer an off-premises license from a current licensee to a proposed licensee who
will operate at the same location provided:

a. The type of alcoholic beverage to be sold is not changed;

b. The on-site management staff has not changed;

c. There have been no citations for alcohol related offenses issued to either the current
licensee or the proposed licensee within the last two (2) years; and

d. The proposed licensee's application complies in all respects with all other provisions of
this chapter.

12. Each off-premises beer licensee shall comply with the provisions of employee training
requirements and operational provisions established by the Act.

13. Beginning July 1, 2018, obtain a State issued off-premises beer retailer license.
B. Maintain Records: Licensees shall maintain records as per the Act.

C. Enforcement: The City shall comply with the enforcement provisions of Utah Code Annotated
32B-7-303.

3-3A-7: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:

A. Types Of Special Use Permits: A special use permit shall be classified under the following
types:

1. A religious wine permit.

2. An industrial or manufacturing use permit.

3. A scientific or educational use permit.
B. Permit Application Process: A person seeking to purchase, use, store, sell, offer for sale, allow
consumption, or manufacture an alcoholic product in a manner that requires a special use permit,
shall comply with section 3-3A-4 of this chapter, except that persons seeking a special use permit
located within a community location are exempt from the distance requirements of section 3-3A-
4 of this chapter.
C. General Operational Restrictions:
1. A special use permittee may not use, mix, store, sell, offer for sale, furnish, manufacture, or
allow consumption of an alcoholic product in a location other than as designated in a special use
permittee's application.
2. A special use permittee may not sell, offer for sale, or furnish an alcoholic product to:

a. A minor;

b. A person actually, apparently, or obviously intoxicated;

c. A known interdicted person; or

d. A known habitual drunkard.

3. A special use permittee may not employ a minor to handle an alcoholic product.

4. The location specified in a special use permit may not be transferred from one location to
another location, without prior written approval of the commission.

5. A special use permittee may not sell, transfer, assign, exchange, barter, give or attempt in any
way to dispose of the permit to another person whether for monetary gain or not.

6. A special use permittee may not purchase, use, mix, store, sell, offer for sale, furnish, consume
or manufacture an alcoholic product for a purpose other than that authorized by the special use
permit.

D. Maintain Records: Permittees shall maintain records as per the Act.

E. Restriction On Permits: There shall be no limitation on the number of special use permits
granted by the City.

3-3A-8: MANUFACTURER LICENSES:

A. Manufacturer License: A person may not manufacture for retail sale any alcoholic beverage
unless an alcoholic beverage manufacturing license has been issued by the commission.

B. License Application Process: A person seeking a manufacturer license shall comply with
section 3-3A-4 of this chapter.

C. General Operational Restrictions:

1. A separate license is required for each place of manufacture, storage, and sale of
alcoholic beverages.

2. Whether independent or associated with a restaurant, a brewer or other form of
manufacturing requires local consent from the City Council.

3. Manufacturer licensees shall comply with all provisions and operational regulations for
a manufacturer as established by the Act.

4. Violation of this subsection is a Class B misdemeanor.
D. Maintain Records: Licensees shall maintain records as per the Act.

E. Restrictions: No more than two (2) manufacturer licenses shall be issued within Herriman
City.

3-3A-9: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS BY A LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT:
A. Any license issued pursuant to this chapter may be suspended or revoked for the violation by

the licensee or the licensee's agent or employee of any provision of this chapter or any other
applicable ordinance or law relating to the possession, consumption, storage or sale of alcoholic

beverages. If any person to whom a license has been issued under this chapter no longer
possesses the qualifications required by this chapter for obtaining that license, the City may
revoke or suspend that license.

B. In addition to the suspension or revocation of licenses, the City may bring criminal charges or
seek any other civil remedy or enforcement available to the City for the violation of any
provision of this chapter. Criminal violations shall be punished as a Class B misdemeanor.

C. Civil enforcement for violations of this chapter by a licensee or agent of a licensee which
occur within any 24-month period may be punished as follows:

1. Upon a first violation of this chapter the licensee shall be issued a warning.

2. Upon any violation of this chapter which occurs within twenty four (24) months of a prior
violation, the licensee shall pay a civil fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).

3. Upon any violation of this chapter which occurs within twenty four (24) months of two (2)
prior violations, the licensee shall pay a civil fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) and the
licensee shall have its license suspended for a period of three (3) consecutive days concurrent
with any suspension imposed by the State.

4. Upon any violation of this chapter which occurs within twenty four (24) months of three (3)
prior violations, the licensee shall pay a civil fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) and the
licensee shall have its license suspended for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days concurrent
with any suspension imposed by the State. In addition, the licensee shall be placed on probation
by the City for a period of one year. Any violation of this chapter by the licensee or any
employee of the licensee during the period of probation shall result in the revocation of the
licensee's license. The licensee shall not be eligible to reapply for a new license for at least six
(6) months from the date of revocation.

D. Failure to pay any fine imposed for a violation of any provision of this chapter within thirty
(30) days of the imposition of such fine shall be grounds for revocation of the license.

HERRIMAN

head Lt

ATTEST: Nicole Martin, Mayor Fro Tempore


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2018-38
SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE REPEALING CHAPTER 3 ARTICLE A OF TITLE 3,
“ALCOHOL AND BEER”, AND REPLACING IT WITH A NEW ARTICLE A, “ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES LICENSES”

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts Absent
Nicole Martin x
Jared Henderson x x
Sherrie Ohrn xX x
Clint Smith xX

To

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 14" day of
November, 2018, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2018-38
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION

This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 14" day
of November, 2018, with a short summary being published on the 23" day of November 2018, in
the Salt Lake Tribune, a newspaper published in Salt Lake City, Utah. I hereby certify and attest
that the foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings with respect to the
ordinance number referenced above.

Signed this 14'" day of November 2018

porate ©
OS ns

CQ corporag,
abs
HERRIMAN
7999

99 x


