HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-36

14Z18— HERRIMAN CITY —- TEXT CHANGE TO THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
TO CONSOLIDATE AND MODIFY HOME OCCUPATION REGULATIONS

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to state law, may enact a land use ordinance
establishing regulations for land use and development; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to state law, the Planning Commission shall prepare and recommend
to the City Council the proposed land development code amendment; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least 10 days prior to the
said public hearing to prepare and recommend to the City Council the proposed land development
code text changes; and

WHEREAS, notice of a Planning Commission public hearing on the land development code
text change was published on August 5, 2018, for an August 16, 2018, public hearing at 7:00 p.m.;
and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission recommended approval of the land development
code text change in the meeting held on August 16, 2018, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council Chambers;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, the City Council must hold a public meeting;
and

WHEREAS, the City Council public meeting was held on November 14, 2018, at 7:00 p.m.;
and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the land development code text change as recommended by the Planning Commission;

NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council that the following text
change be adopted as a change to the land development code of the City:

(The underlined text is the new wording, and the strikethrough text is to be deleted.)

Chapter 22
HOME OCCUPATIONS

10-22-1: PURPOSE:

10-22-2: SCOPE:

10-22-3: DEFINITIONS:

10-22-4: PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED USES:

10-22-5: HOME OCCUPATION STANDARDS:

10-22-6: HOME OCCUPATIONS IN AGRICULTURAL ZONES:
10-22-7: HOME DAYCARE

10-22-8: HOME GROUP INSTRUCTION

10-22-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish use and development regulations for home

occupations. These regulations are intended to ensure that limited business activities allowed ina
residence do not disturb the residential character of a neighborhood.

10-22-2: SCOPE:
The requirements of this chapter shall apply to any home occupation conducted within the City.

10-22-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words and phrases in this chapter, including uses, are defined in chapter 3 of this title.

10-22-4: PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED USES:

A. Permitted Uses in Agricultural and Residential Zones: Except for prohibited uses set forth in
subsection B of this section, a person residing in a dwelling located in an agricultural or
residential zone may conduct a home occupation, subject to the home occupation standards set
forth in section 10-22-5 of this chapter and any other applicable requirement under this title.

B. Prohibited Uses In All Zones: The uses set forth below involve operations not suited to a
residential area and shall be prohibited as home occupations in all zones:

Any use that requires or utilizes chemicals or hazardous materials in excess of volumes
allowed by the International Fire Code in a dwelling.

Auto body or fender work.
Junkyards, storage or recycling yards.
Manufacture or sale of ammunition, explosives, or similar products.

Mortuaries and crematoriums.

Rental or sale of vehicles exceeding two (2) rentals or sales per year.
Sexually oriented businesses.
Short term rentals.

Vehicle towing operations.

10-22-5: HOME OCCUPATION STANDARDS:
The standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home occupation, except as otherwise
provided in section 10-22-6 of this chapter.

A. Accessory Buildings: A home occupation shall not involve the use of any accessory building.

B. Business License: Approval of a home occupation shall not relieve a person from obtaining a
City business license as required by this Code.

C. Employees Prohibited On Premises: No person conducting a home occupation shall permit
any employee, contractor, or other person to do any work related to the home occupation on the
premises where the home occupation is located.

D. Fire Inspection: Every facility used in a home occupation may be inspected by the Fire
Department prior to initial use and shall meet Fire Department standards at all times.

E. Inventory: Products associated with a home occupation may be kept on the premises provided
that storage of such items shall be inside the dwelling and shall be limited to a maximum of two
hundred fifty (250) cubic feet.

F. Modification of Structures: There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior of a dwelling
indicating any use other than for a dwelling.

G. Neighborhood Disturbance: A home occupation shall not alter the residential character of the
premises or unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood by reason of
construction, dust, electrical or electromagnetic wave interference, fumes, lighting, noise, odor,
smoke, sounds, traffic, vibration, or other causes.

H. Parking: Parking shall be limited to two (2) available parking spaces on the subject property
where automobiles are customarily parked. No additional parking spaces shall be created to serve
a home occupation.

I. Product Display: There shall be no external display of products or merchandise.

J. Promotional Meetings: Promotional meetings for the purpose of selling merchandise, taking
orders, or training shall be prohibited.

K. Secondary Use Only: A home occupation shall be conducted entirely indoors and shall be

incidental and secondary to the primary use of a dwelling for residential purposes. Not more than
twenty percent (20%) of the floor area of a dwelling unit shall be used for a home occupation.

L. Signs: See chapter 27 of this title.

M. Traffic and Access: A home occupation shall not generate pedestrian, parking, or vehicular
traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone where the home occupation is
located. A home occupation which generates additional pedestrian, parking, or vehicular traffic is
prohibited in a dwelling unit which shares a common driveway or other access with an adjoining
dwelling unit.

N. Utility Demand: A home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in excess of
that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

O. Yards: Yards surrounding a dwelling and any accessory building:

1. May be used for activities customarily conducted outside a dwelling unit, such as
swimming lessons and child play areas; and

2. Shall not be used for storage of any materials or equipment associated with a home
occupation.

P. Hours: Home occupations involving pedestrian or vehicle traffic shall be conducted only
between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) P.M.

10-22-6: SPECIAL HOME OCCUPATIONS IN-AGRICULFURAL ZONES:
Notwithstanding any contrary provision in section 10-22-5 of this chapter, and subject to the
provisions of this section, a person residing in a dwelling located in an agricultural zone and up
to two (2) employees may conduct a special home occupation. If the lot where the home
occupation is located is larger than one acre, up to four (4) employees on the premises may
operate the home occupation. A special home occupation shall be a conditional use in the
agricultural zones.

A. Accessory Buildings: Work may be done in accessory buildings if any nuisance arising from
noise and odors, other than those incidental to legitimate agricultural uses, is mitigated.

B. Business License: A business license for a home occupation in an agricultural zone shall not
exceed two (2) years but may be renewed subject to applicable provisions of this chapter.

C. Equipment: Equipment may be stored outside a building in a rear yard.

D. Parking: One additional parking space on the premises shall be provided for each employee
coming to the dwelling as a result of the home occupation. Such parking shall be located only in
a side or rear yard.

E. Restrooms: Any accessory buildings where employees work shall have restrooms for such
employees.

F. Secondary Use Only: A home occupation shall be incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling and the premises for agricultural purposes and shall not change the character of the
dwelling.

G. Storage: Storage of material shall be within an enclosed building.

10-22-7 HOME DAYCARE:
A home daycare shall meet the home occupation standards of section 10-22-5 and the following
additional requirements:

1. The operator of the daycare shall be a bona fide resident of the premises where the
home occupation is conducted.

2. The number of children attending a daycare center shall conform to applicable
requirements of the Utah Code.

3. Outdoor play areas shall be fenced and located only in a rear yard or side yard. No
play or yard equipment shall be located in the front yard.

4. A daycare center operated as a home occupation shall be prohibited if located on a
shared driveway.

10-22-8 HOME GROUP INSTRUCTION:

A home occupation for group instruction, including, but not limited to, preschools, tumbling
lessons, swimming lessons, or dance lessons, shall meet the home occupation standards of
section 10-22-5 and the following additional requirements:

1. The instructor shall be a bona fide resident of the premises where the home
occupation is conducted.

2. For purposes of this section, a group shall be defined as three (3) or more students
attending a session.

2. The number of children attending for preschool instruction shall conform to
applicable requirements of the Utah Code.

3. The number of classes shall be limited to two sessions per day. The sessions must be
separated by at least thirty minutes to allow adequate time for pick-up and drop-off.

4. Outdoor play areas shall be fenced and located only in a rear yard or side vard. No
play or yard equipment shall be located in the front yard.

5. A home occupation for instruction shall be prohibited if located on a shared
driveway.


Add “Home Group Instruction” on the Table of Uses (Chapter 16) as a conditional use in the
following zones:
tment’ A-.5
A-.5
A-1
R-1-10
R-1-15
R-1-21
R-1-43
R-2-10
R-2-15
FR-1
MU-2

Add “Special Home Occupation” on the Table of Uses (Chapter 16) as a conditional use in the
following zones:

A-.25
A-.50
A-1

10-29-16: DAYCARE AND PRESCHOOLS:
A "daycare/preschool center", as defined in chapter 3 of this title, shall be subject to the
following conditions:

A. Compatibility: A daycare/preschool center located within an existing building shall be
compatible with existing and proposed land uses located on the same lot. New construction shall
be compatible in design and scale of building with existing development within the same area.

B. State Approval: A daycare/preschool center shall be approved as required by the State
Department of Social Services.

C. Parking: Parking, pickup, and delivery areas shall be provided as required by chapter 24 of
this title.

D. Frontage: In any zone, except the R-M, C-1, C-2, or M-1 Zones, the lot on which a
daycare/preschool center is located shall have frontage on a street with an existing right-of-way
of eighty feet (80') or greater.

10-3-5 Definitions, Generally

HOME OCCUPATION: A commercial or other nonresidential use conducted within a dwelling
unit that is incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes as
permitted pursuant to chapter 22 of this title.

HOME OCCUPATION, SPECIAL: A home occupation located in an agricultural zone
conducted pursuant to chapter 22 of this title.


HOME DAYCARE: A facility located within a dwelling and yard which, for direct or indirect
compensation, provides care, protection, supervision, of twelve (12) or less children, including
the caregiver's own children under the age of six (6) and not yet in full day school. (State Statutes
and regulations may contain additional requirements or may limit the number of children allowed
in a home daycare) "Home daycare" does not include care provided in the home of the parent or
legal guardian of a child or children.

HOME GROUP INSTRUCTION: A facility located within a dwelling and yard which, for direct
or indirect compensation, provides instruction for three (3) or more students at a time for uses
including, but not limited to, preschool, tumbling lessons, swimming lessons, or dance lessons.
Subject to the requirements of Chapter 22 of this title.

10-3-6 D:

PASSED AND APPROVED this 14" day of November 2018.

HERRIMAN

Mit Af

ATTEST: “Nicole Martin, Mayor PYo Tempore


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2018-36
SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING A TEXT CHANGE TO THE LAND
DEVELOPMENT CODE TO CONSOLIDATE AND MODIFY HOME OCCUPATION
REGULATIONS (Z2018-14)

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts Absent
Nicole Martin xX
Jared Henderson 4 x
Sherrie Ohrn x
Clint Smith x

Ta

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 14" day of
November, 2018, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2018-36
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION

This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 14" day
of November, 2018, with a short summary being published on the 23" day of November 2018, in
the Salt Lake Tribune, a newspaper published in Salt Lake City, Utah. I hereby certify and attest
that the foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings with respect to the
ordinance number referenced above.

Signed this 14" day of November 2018


