HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-20

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10 (LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE) OF THE
HERRIMAN CODE OF ORDINANCES (“CODE”) TO REGULATE THE
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND THE
APPEALS AUTHORITY

WHEREAS, the Herriman City Council (“Council”) met in regular session on May 9,
2018, to consider among other things, an ordinance amending title 10 of the Code (land
development code) of the Herriman Code of Ordinances to establish regulations for the
appointment of members to the Planning Commission and the Appeals Authority; and

WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-503 provides that the Council may make
amendments to its land use ordinances provided they are first submitted to the planning
commission for its recommendation; and

WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-503 also provides that the Council shall comply
with the procedure specified in Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502 in preparing and adopting
amendments to a land use regulation; and

WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502 provides planning commission shall provide
notice as required by Subsection 10-9a-205(1)(a) and, if applicable, Subsection 10-9a-205(4) and
hold a public hearing on proposed land use ordinances; and

WHEREAS, on April 23, 2018, the required notice was published; and

WHEREAS, on April 26, 2018, the proposed amendments to Title 10 of the Code, which
is attached, was submitted to the planning commission for its recommendation; and

WHEREAS, on May 3, 2018, the planning commission held the required public hearing
with respect to the proposed amendments to Title 10; and

WHEREAS, at the May 3, 2018, planning commission meeting the Herriman Planning
Commission recommended approval of the proposed amendments to Title 10; and

WHEREAS, on May 9 ,2018, the Council considered the proposed amendments to Title
10 during a public meeting which has been properly noticed in compliance with the provisions of
Title 52, Chapter 4, of the Open and Public Meetings Act; and

WHEREAS, the Council finds that it is in the best interest of Herriman residents to adopt
the proposed amendments to Title 10 as recommended by the Planning Commission;

NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Council that Titles 10 be hereby amended as
described within Exhibit A as attached.

This Ordinance, assigned no. 2018-20, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s
recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 9" day of May, 2018.

HERRIMA Y COUNCIL
——__—_—S—.
Javed Henderson, Mayor Pro Tempore

ATTEST:

a q
«i oa i)
R HERRIMAN ty
we ee of WG/2G
—

EXHIBIT A

Chapter 4
DECISION-MAKING BODIES AND OFFICIALS

10-4-1: Purpose

10-4-2: Scope

10-4-3; Definitions

10-4-4: City Council

10-4-5: Planning Commission

10-4-6: Appeal Authority

10-4-7: Community Development Director
10-4-8: Planning Commission Referral
10-4-1: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this chapter is to set forth the authority of decision-making bodies and
officials responsible for administering the provisions of this title.

10-4-2: SCOPE:

The authority of decision-making bodies and officials set forth in this chapter shall apply
to the entirety of this title, subject to its various provisions.

10-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words and phrases in this chapter are defined in chapter 3 of this title.
10-4-4: CITY COUNCIL:

A. Powers Not Enumerated in this Title. See city council powers and duties set forth
in chapter 6 of the Herriman city code.

B. Powers and Duties Related to this Title. In addition to the powers and duties of
the city council set forth in subsection A of this section, in administering this title the city council
shall have the powers and duties set forth below. Each of such powers and duties shall be
exercised pursuant to applicable provisions of this title.

1. Adopt, modify, or reject a proposed general plan or any amendment
thereto for all or part of the city and its surroundings;

2. Adopt, modify, or reject proposed amendments to the text of this title and
to the zoning map; and

3. Establish a fee schedule for land use applications required by provisions
of this title.
10-4-5: PLANNING COMMISSION:
A. Established. Pursuant to the terms of the Municipal Land Use, Development, and

Management Act, Utah Code § 10-9a-101, et seq., a planning commission is hereby established
to exercise the powers and duties specified in this title.

B. Appointment and Term of Office. The planning commission shall consist of seven
persons who shall be appointed by the-mayor-with-the-advice-and-consentof the city council.

1. It is the intent of the city council that the planning commission will
represent diverse citizen groups, as well as the broad interests of the city as a whole;
that membership should include balanced representation in geographic, professional,
neighborhood and community interest; and that a wide range of expertise relating to
development of a healthy and well planned community should be sought when
appointing commission members. Interests from which expertise might be selected
include banking, development, contracting, engineering, geology and seismology, law,
ecology, behavioral sciences, historic preservation, architecture, and landscape
architecture. It is not, however, intended that planning commission members be limited
to professionals, but rather, that members represent a cross section of the community.

2. Planning commission members shall be bona fide city residents and
qualified electors of the city.

3. Each planning commission member shall be appointed for a term of three
years which shall begin upon appointment.

4. Planning commission members may be reappointed for successive terms.

5. The mayor-withthe-advice-and-consentotthe city council may remove
any member of the planning commission whenever it appears that such removal would
be in the best interests of the city, as determined by the city council.

6. Any vacancy occurring on the planning commission by reason of death,
resignation, or removal shall be promptly filled by the mayor-with-the-advice-and
consenteHhe city council, for the unexpired term of such member.

7. Any vacancy occurring on the planning commission by reason of
expiration of term shall be promptly filled by the mayor-with+the-advice-and-consentof
the city council.

8. The mayor-withthe-advice-and-consentefthe city council, may appoint
three alternate planning commission members who shall serve terms of one year. The
reappointment, removal, and vacancy of alternate planning commission members shall
be the same as for regular planning commission members. Alternate members of the
planning commission may serve on the planning commission in the absence of a
planning commission member.

9. Members and alternate members of the planning commission shall be
deemed “volunteers” for purposes of city ordinances, rules, regulations, and policies
concerning personnel; provided, however, they shall be included in the definition of
“employee” for purposes of the Utah Governmental Immunity Act, Utah Code § 63-30-1,
et seq.

10. Planning commission and alternate members may be compensated for
performing their duties as may be approved by the city council.

C. Powers and Duties. The planning commission shall have the following powers

and duties which shall be exercised pursuant to the provisions of this title:

1. Prepare and recommend a general plan and general plan amendments to
the city council as provided in section 10-5-7 of this title;

2. Recommend land use regulations to the city council as provided in
section 10-5-8 of this title;

3. Act as a land use authority as provided in this title; and

4. Advise the city council on matters requested by the council, including but
not limited to, programs for public improvements and the financing thereof; and

D. Organization and Procedure. The planning commission shall be organized and
exercise its powers and duties as follows:

1. The planning commission shall select one member as chair to oversee
the proceedings and activities of the planning commission and one member as vice-
chair to act in the absence of the chair. The chair and vice-chair shall serve for a term of
one year and may be reelected for successive terms.

2. The planning commission shall adopt policies and procedures, consistent
with the provisions of this title and applicable law, to govern the conduct of its meetings,
the processing of applications, and for any other purpose considered necessary for the
functioning of the planning commission. Such policies and procedures shall be approved
by the city council before taking effect.

3. The planning commission shall hold regular meetings and any necessary
public hearings on the first and third Thursday of each month in the Herriman
Community Center Building located at 5355 W. Herriman Main Street, Herriman, Utah,
unless otherwise changed by the planning commission as the need may arise and
permitted by law.

a. All planning commission meetings and public hearings shall be
held after regular working hours of the city.

b. Such meetings and public hearings shall be noticed and held in
accordance with the Open and Public Meetings Act, Utah Code § 52-4-1, et seq.
and section 10-5-5 of this title.

4. No official business shall be conducted by the planning commission
unless a quorum of its members is present.

a. Four members of the planning commission shall constitute a
quorum.
b. The minimum number of yes votes required for the planning

commission to take any action shall be the majority of members present, unless
otherwise prescribed by law.

5. The planning commission shall transmit reports of its official acts to the

city council.

6. Written minutes and a recording of planning commission meetings which
are required by the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act, Utah Code § 52-4-1, et seq.,
shall be filed in the office of the city recorder. Such records shall be available for public
review and access in accordance with the Government Records Access and
Management Act, Utah Code § 63G-2-101, et seq.

7. The city and its authorized agents may enter upon any land at reasonable
times to make examinations and surveys pertinent to the:

a. Preparation of the general plan; or
b. Preparation or enforcement of the provisions of this title.

10-4-6: APPEAL AUTHORITY:

A. Established. Pursuant to the terms of the Municipal Land Use, Development, and
Management Act, Utah Code § 10-9a-701, et seq., an appeal authority is hereby established.

B. Appointment and Term of Office. The appeal authority shall consist of one person
who shall be appointed by the mayor-withthe-advice-and-consent ofthe city council.

1. The person serving as the appeal authority shall be appointed for a term
determined by the city council which shall begin upon appointment.

2. Such person may be reappointed for successive terms.

3. Any vacancy occurring on the appeal authority shall be promptly filled by
the mayorwith-the-advice-and-censentotthe city council.

4. A person serving as the appeal authority shall be deemed a “volunteer”
for purposes of city ordinances, rules, regulations, and policies concerning personnel;
provided, however, such person shall be included in the definition of “employee” for
purposes of the Utah Governmental Immunity Act, Utah Code § 63G-7-101, et seq.

C. Powers and Duties. The appeal authority shall have the powers and duties given
by Utah law, including but not limited to the following, which shall be exercised pursuant to the
provisions of this title and applicable state law.

1. The appeal authority shall hear and decide:

a. Appeals from decisions applying the provisions of this title as
provided in section 10-5-24 of this title;

b. Appeals from a fee charged in accordance with Utah Code § 10-
9a-510; and
Cc. Requests for variances from the terms of this title as provided in

section 10-5-21 of this title.

2. The appeal authority:
a. Shall:
i. Act in a quasi-judicial manner; and

ii. Serve as the final arbiter of issues involving the
interpretation or application of the provisions of this title and

b. May not entertain an appeal of a matter in which the appeal
authority had first acted as the land use authority.

D. Organization and Procedure. The appeal authority shall be organized and
exercise its powers and duties as follows.

1. The appeal authority shall adopt policies and procedures, consistent with
the provisions of this title and applicable law, to govern the conduct of its meetings, the
processing of applications, and for any other purposes considered necessary for the
functioning of the authority.

2. Public hearings and meetings of the appeal authority shall be held at the
Call of the authority in the Herriman Community Center Building located at 13011 South
Pioneer Street (6000 West), Herriman, Utah, unless otherwise changed by the authority
as the need may arise and permitted by law.

a. Public hearings and meetings shall be noticed and held in
accordance with the Open and Public Meetings Act, Utah Code § 52-4-1, et seq.
and section 10-5-5 of this title.

b. At the meeting of any matter before the appeal authority, the
parties affected may appear in person with or without an attorney.

Cc. The appeal authority shall administer oaths, provide an
opportunity for cross examination, and direct the proceedings of the authority ina
quasi-judicial manner so that the due process rights of each participant are

respected.
d. The appeal authority shall not have ex parte contacts.
3. The appeal authority shall transmit reports of its official acts to the city

council, planning commission, and community development director.

4. Written minutes and a recording of appeal authority meetings which are
required by the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act, Utah Code § 52-4-1, et seq., shall
be filed in the office of the city recorder. Such records shall be available for public review
and access in accordance with the Government Records and Access Management Act,
Utah Code § 63G-2-101, et seq.

10-4-7: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR:

A. Appointment. The community development director, or a person designated by

the director, is responsible for administering and enforcing the provisions of this title.

B. Interpretation. Upon request, the community development director shall make a
written interpretation of the text of this title pursuant to section 10-5-18 of this title.

C. Administrative Duties. The community development director shall accomplish or
cause to be accomplished all administrative actions required by this title, including the giving of
notice, holding of hearings, preparation of staff reports, and receiving and processing of
appeals.

D. Appeal. Any person adversely affected by a final decision of the community
development director made in the exercise of the provisions of this title may appeal that decision
to the appeal authority as provided in section 10-5-24 of this title.

10-4-8: PLANNING COMMISSION REFERRAL:

A. Referral to Staff. The planning commission may direct that any matter over which
it has jurisdiction be referred to the staff of the planning commission for review and preparation
of recommendations. Such action shall be taken either by motion of the planning commission or
pursuant to duly adopted policies and procedures of the planning commission. The authority for
such referrals may be revoked at any time by motion of the planning commission or amendment
of its policies and procedures as the case may be.

B. Appointment of Hearing Officer. In the event a matter is referred to the planning
commission staff which requires a public hearing, the city manager shall appoint a hearing
officer to conduct the hearing in accordance with applicable requirements of this title.

C. Review and Recommendation. If a matter is referred to the planning commission
staff as permitted by this section, the staff shall conform to any instructions or limitations
contained in the referral, and subject thereto shall review the referred matter, conduct any
necessary hearings, and prepare written recommendations for the planning commission.

E. Decision. Unless the planning commission shall otherwise direct, any person who
has applied for authorization to develop property under the terms of this title may in writing
consent to the staff recommendation and waive further action by the planning commission. If the
applicant waives further action by the planning commission, the staff recommendation shall be
deemed approved by the planning commission. Thereafter, necessary permits may be issued
subject to the terms of this title and any applicable conditions of approval.

F. Limitation. This section shall not apply to any action where the planning
commission is required by law to take direct action.

Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2018-20
SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10 (LAND DEVELOPMENT
CODE) OF THE HERRIMAN CODES OF ORDINANCES TO REGULATE THE
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND THE APPEALS
AUTHORITY

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts x
Nicole Martin x
Jared Henderson xX
Sherrie Ohrn x x
Clint Smith xX x
TOTALS 5

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 9" day of
May, 2018, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2018-20
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION

This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 9" day of
May, 2018, with a short summary being published on the 15" day of May 2018, in the Salt Lake
Tribune, a newspaper published in Salt Lake City, Utah. I hereby certify and attest that the
foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings with respect to the ordinance

number referenced above.

orate

Signed this 9"" day of May 2018

—AG Jackie, om. City Recorder


