HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-01

13Z17—- HERRIMAN CITY — TEXT CHANGE TO THE LAND USE ORDINANCE TO
ADD A CHAPTER REGARDING MOBILE FOOD VENDORS

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to state law, may enact a land use ordinance
establishing regulations for land use and development; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to state law, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
recommend to the City Council the proposed land use ordinance amendment; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to City of Herriman Land Use Ordinance, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least 10 days prior to
said public hearing to prepare and recommend to the City Council the proposed land use
ordinance text changes; and

WHEREAS, notice of the Planning Commission public hearing on the land use
ordinance text change was published on June 5, 2017, noticing of the June 15, 2017, public
hearing at 7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission recommended approval of the land use ordinance
text change in the meeting held on November 16, 2017, at 7:00 p.m. in the Community Center;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to City of Herriman Ordinance, the City Council must hold a
public meeting; and

WHEREAS, the City Council public meeting on January 10, 2018, was held at 7:00
p-m.; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of
Herriman City to adopt the land use ordinance text change as recommended by the Planning
Commission;

NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council that the following
chapter be adopted as a change to the land development code of the City: (the entire chapter is
new)

DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings set forth in this
section:

“City owned property” means all property owned by the city and includes but is not limited to
parks, open space, parcels containing city operations, buildings, rights of way, and parking lots


on city owned property

"Food truck event" means an event where an individual has ordered or commissioned the
operation of a food truck at a private or public gathering.

Food truck" means a fully encased food service establishment on a motor vehicle or on a trailer
that a motor vehicle pulls to transport: and from which a food truck vendor, standing within the
frame of the vehicle, prepares, cooks, sells, or serves food or beverages for immediate human
consumption. Food truck does not include a food cart or an ice cream truck.

"Food cart" means a cart that is not motorized: and_that a vendor, standing outside the frame of
the cart, uses to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages for immediate human consumption.

"Ice cream truck" means a fully encased food service establishment on a motor vehicle or on a
trailer that a motor vehicle pulls to transport from which a vendor, from within the frame of the
vehicle, serves ice cream that attracts patrons by traveling through a residential area and signaling
the truck's presence in the area, including by playing music: and that may stop to serve ice cream
at the signal of a patron.

"Food truck vendor" means a person who sells, cooks, or serves food or beverages from a food
truck.

LICENSE REQUIRED, HEALTH DEPARTMENT PERMIT, FEES, AND
REGULATIONS:
A. License Required: It is unlawful for any person to operate, conduct, carry on. or maintain

a food truck without meeting the requirements of this chapter.

B. The city shall grant a business license without fee or imposing additional license
qualification to operate a food truck within the city to a food truck vendor who has
obtained a business license to operate a food truck in another political subdivision within
the state if the food truck vendor presents to the city a current business license from
another political subdivision within the state; a current health department food truck
permit from the Salt Lake Valley Health Department; and a current approval of a political
subdivision within the state that shows that the food truck passed a fire safety inspection

56-104(4)(a).

C. Business Activity To Be Temporary: It is unlawful for food truck operator to operate a
food truck between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the next day unless prior
written permission is received from the city

D. No overnight parking is allowed, except during a multiday event.

PERMITTED LOCATIONS:
A. Food Truck Event on Private Property: A food truck event may only operate on
private property with the express prior written permission of a person with authority
to act on behalf of the property owner. The written permission shall include any


restrictions such as specific location on the property. hours of operation. limitations
on employee and/or public sales, etc. The Food Truck Vendor, while operating. shall
produce the written permission upon request of an authorized city official.

a. The Food Truck Vendor shall comply with the city sign ordinance and
shall not be located within the clear view of intersecting streets. .
b. Zoning Restrictions: Food Trucks are a permitted use in the C-2 and MU-2
zones.
B. Food Truck Event on City Owned Property: Food vending is prohibited on city

owned property and city rights of way including, but not limited to, streets, on-street
parking areas, and sidewalks, except as authorized in writing by the city for City
Events that are organized by City Staff. Mobile food vending on City property shall
be limited to City events held at W &M Butterfield Park and J. Lynn Crane Park.

PROHIBITED ACTS:
A. Preparation Outside The Food Truck: Food truck vendors may prepare food and

beverages outside of the food truck (e.g., meat smoking, corn roasting) but such
preparation shall not obstruct vehicle or pedestrian traffic nor create safety hazards to
the public. Food truck vendors, however, shall not serve food directly to customers
from such outside food preparation area.

B. Items For Sale: Only food and beverage items, and merchandise branded with the
food truck vendor’s logos such as apparel or beverage containers, may be sold from
the food truck. The sale or distribution of other merchandise, professional or personal
services, or alcoholic beverages is prohibited.

C. Obstruction Of Traffic: Placement of food trucks, or related accessories shall not
obstruct or impede pedestrian traffic or vehicular traffic, access to and from
driveways, or clean vision lines for vehicle drives.

D. Drive-Through or Drive-In Service Prohibited: Food trucks shall serve pedestrians
only. Drive-through or drive-in service is prohibited.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 10" day of January, 2018.

HERRIMAN

ATTEST:

FREI MAN
TL
1999


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2018-01
SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING A TEXT CHANGE TO THE LAND
USE ORDINANCE TO ADD A CHAPTER REGARDING MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
(FILE NO. 13Z17)

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts x
Nicole Martin xX X
Jared Henderson X
Sherrie Ohrn x
Clint Smith x x

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 10" day of
January, 2018, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2018-01
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION

This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 10" day
of January, 2018, with a short summary being published on the 23" day of January 2018, in the
Salt Lake Tribune, a newspaper published in Salt Lake City, Utah. I hereby certify and attest that
the foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings with respect to the ordinance
number referenced above.

Signed this 10" day of January 2018

HERRIMAN

7999
we

AG Jackie gsthom, City Recorder


