HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-13

Z2018-03— HERRIMAN CITY —- TEXT CHANGE TO THE LAND DEVELOPMENT
CODE REGARDING BACKYARD CHICKENS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to state law, may enact a land use ordinance
establishing regulations for land use and development; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to state law, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
recommend to the City Council the proposed land use ordinance amendment; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to City of Herriman Land Use Ordinance, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least 10 days prior to
said public hearing to prepare and recommend to the City Council the proposed land use
ordinance text changes; and

WHEREAS, notice of the Planning Commission public hearing on the land use
ordinance text change was published on February 5, 2018, noticing of the February 15, 2018,
public hearing at 7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission recommended approval of the land use ordinance
text change in the meeting held on February 15, 2018, at 7:00 p.m. in the Community Center; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to City of Herriman Ordinance, the City Council must hold a
public meeting; and

WHEREAS, the City Council public meeting on March 14, 2018, was held at 7:00 p.m.;
and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of
Herriman City to adopt the land use ordinance text change as recommended by the Planning
Commission;

NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council that the following
text change be adopted as a change to the land use ordinance of the City: (the underlined text is
the new wording and the strikethrough text is to be deleted)

10-29-7: ANIMALS AND FOWL:

A. Permitted for Family Food Production: The keeping of animals and fowl is

allowed as set forth in the chart below in zenes-wherefamilyfeed production” is-a-permitted

use-or conditionaluse. the A-.25, A-.50, A-1, R-1-21. and R-1-43 zones.


F, Backyard Chickens: In R-1 zones not included under Family Food Production.
persons may keep backyard chickens on single-family residential lots in accordance with
the provisions of this section:

1. Maximum Number Of Backyard Chickens Allowed:

Lot Size Maximum
(Square Feet) Number Of Chickens

Less than 5,000. Q_

5,000 to 7,999 4°

8.000 to 9.999 = 6_

10,000 or more 10

2. At Large: It is unlawful for any person who is the owner, keeper, or temporary
custodian of any chicken to allow the animal(s) to be at large. off the premises or outside
the approved enclosure.

3. Unsanitary Conditions and Animal Husbandry: It is unlawful for any person to keep
and maintain in an unclean or unsanitary condition any coop, enclosure or other structure
or area in which any chicken is kept. The keeping of animals must conform with good
animal husbandry practices including, but not limited to, mitigation of noise, smells,
insects, rodents, dust, or other nuisance type effects of family food production.

4. Nuisance: It is unlawful for the owner or keeper of any chicken to allow the animal(s)
to be a nuisance to any neighbor, including, but not limited to. creating noxious odors

from the animals, their waste, coop, or related structure or generating noise of a loud and

persistent nature.

5. Subject To Inspection: All places where any backyard chickens are kept shall be
subject to inspection for cleanliness, health, and sanitation purposes by a Code
enforcement official, animal control officer, or representative of the Salt Lake Valley
Health Department, based_on any complaint or observation that the requirements of this
section are in violation.

6. Female Chickens Only: Only female chickens may be kept. No ducks, geese, turkeys,
peafowl, crowing hens, or roosters may be kept. No other bird species shall be kept
except as provided by this Code and birds normally and generally considered household

or indoor pets.

7. Accessory Buildings: Chicken coops shall be considered accessory buildings and are
subject to the accessory building requirements of the zone in which the property is
located.


8. Personal Use Only: Chickens shall be for personal use only. The selling of eggs or
fertilizer or the breeding of chickens for commercial use is prohibited.

9. Slaughtering: The slaughtering of chickens on the premises is allowed in areas not
visible to the public and must be accomplished in a humane and sanitary fashion. All
entrails and byproducts of the slaughtering process shall be discarded in accordance with
Health Department regulations.

10. Enclosure Standards:

a. Chickens must be contained within an enclosure or fenced area at all times.

b. Chicken enclosures shall be contained entirely behind a fence in the side or rear
yard. No enclosures will be permitted in any front yard.

c. Chicken coops shall be maintained in good condition.

d. All chicken coops shall be placed at least twenty five feet (25') from any
dwelling on an adjacent lot.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 14" day of March, 2018.

/

ATTEST:

PALL |
cd >

wT pe


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2018-13

SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE TEXT CHANGE TO THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
RAGARDING BACK YEARD CHICKENS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY

ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts x
Nicole Martin X X
Jared Henderson xX XxX
Sherrie Ohrn x
Clint Smith X

TOTALS 5

This resolution was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 14" day of
March, 2018, on a roll call vote as described above.

