HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-18

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CULINARY AND SECONDARY WATER FEE
AND RATE STRUCTURE WITH RESPECT TO A HYDRANT METER AND
RESTATING THE WATER FEE AND RATE STRUCTURE AND ENACTING
RELATED PROVISIONS, ESTABLISHING ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES, AND
ESTABLISHING REQUIREMENTS AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION

WHEREAS, on June 26, 2019, the City Council (the "Council") met in regular session to
consider, among other things, amending the culinary and secondary water fee and rate structure
with respect to a hydrant meter and restating the water fee and rate structure and enacting related
provisions, establishing enforcement procedures, and establishing requirements and backflow
prevention; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of-the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Herriman to amend the culinary and
secondary water fee and rate structure with respect to a hydrant meter (designated by
interlineating the words to be deleted and underlining the words to be added).

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council that the Code with respect to
culinary and secondary water fees be amended as follows (designated by interlineating the words
to be deleted and underlining the words to be added):

8-1-2 A Fees, Rates, and Changes
Charge for water through each services connection, inside and outside the corporate
limits of the City, shall be as provided in the current fee schedule.

8-1-5 Materials

In all cases, the pipe and type of materials shall meet current City development standard
to be furnished and installed in the public right-of-way or per written agreement that are to be
maintained by the City shall be approved by the City and shall be under its exclusive control. All
excavation and other permits necessary shall be obtained at the expense of the applicant. Pipe
and material outside the public way or beyond the meter and pipe and materials installed as
private pipelines or services shall be maintained by the property owners.

8-1-6 Connections from Mains -Specifications

The service pipes and connections from the main to the water meter, including the meter
box, a meter yoke and valve are to be placed within the parking strip by a licensed, bonded
contractor or plumber, to current City development standards, and subject to City inspection and
approval. The City or its designee shall install the water meter. The contractor or plumber shall
warrant the work and facilities installed by him against defects in workmanship or materials for a
period of one year from date of acceptance thereof by the City.

8-1-8 Bypass Water Meter

Except with a City-issued device (construction jumper) to bypass a water meter or
connection, it is unlawful for any person to use any means or device to bypass a water meter or
connection to a waterline without a water meter. Any person or entity violating this provision
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by a fine not less than or equal to $1,000.

8-1-9 A Service Pipes

All service and other pipes used underground shall be of a type and size approved by the
City, and shall meet City current development standards. All work upon alterations or extensions
of water pipes, shall be subject to acceptance of the City.

8-1-9 B Service Pipes
The minimum size for service Pipes shall be installed following City current development
standards.

8-1-10 Service to Individual Buildings

No consumer shall be permitted to conduct water pipes across lots or buildings to
adjoining premises, and each house abutting on a City water main must be supplied through its
Own separate service pipe running at right angles to the main.

8-1-11 Separate Trenches for Water and Sewer Pipes

No water pipe shall be roughed out closer than three feet from the sewer pipe at the
foundation of any building, and shall meet current City development standards, including State
and Federal regulations.

8-1-12 B Valves

In all cases when a contractor or plumber shall make repairs to pipes or fixtures on any
premises, they shall leave the water turned on or turned off as they found it when they entered
the premises to make such repairs.

8-1-18 Shutoff Authorized

In case of leaks or other accidents damaging service pipes, or other apparatus connected
with the City waterworks, plumbers, and homeowners may shut off the water at the meter to
make necessary repairs. Property owners will be liable for any damages that may result.

8-1-18 Extension of Water Mains

No water mains or pipes shall be laid nor shall permission be given to lay water mains or
pipes to supply water from the waterworks system of the City to the occupants of any plat,
addition or subdivision of any block, lot or tract of ground within the City, unless the plat,
addition or subdivision engineering plans shall have been approved by the City.

8-1-19 A Fire Hydrants

The City may give permission, for which a fee shall be set and charged by the City, for
the use of water from fire hydrants by applicants who are engaged in work within the City. All
water used from fire hydrants shall be metered through a City-owned meter which shall be rented
from the City.

8-1-14 D Meters

When for any reason the water meter shall fail to register, or the meter cannot be read, a
bill shall be rendered at the average rate of consumption for like periods of time.
Billing Period. Bills for water used through meters shall be rendered monthly; the City shall
determine from time to time when monthly meter readings shall be made and bills rendered. If
average consumption of like period is not available then average consumption of like period and
time from a similar lot size and type may be used.

Water Rates and Related Charges.

As of July 1, 2019, the charge for water, inside and outside the corporate limits of the
City, shall be as set forth in the current fee schedule.

8-1-20 Backflow and Cross Connections Control
A. Definitions. For purposes of this ordinance, the following words shall be the
following meanings:

Water manager means the person designated by the City to be in charge of the Water
Department who is invested with the authority and responsibility for the implementation of an
effective cross connection control program and for the enforcement of the provisions of this
ordinance.

Approved backflow assembly means an assembly accepted by the Utah State Department
of Environmental Quality, Division of Drinking Water, as meeting an applicable specification or
as suitable for the proposed use.

Auxiliary water supply means any water supply on or available to the premises other than
the City's water supply will be considered as an auxiliary water supply. These auxiliary waters
may include water from another purveyor's public potable water supply or any natural source(s)
such as a well, spring, river, stream, etc., or "used waters" or "industrial fluids." These waters
may be contaminated or polluted, or they may be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable
water source over which the City does not have authority for sanitary control.

Backflow means the reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back-pressure
or back-siphonage.

Back-pressure means the flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances from a
region of high pressure to a region of lower pressure into the water distribution pipes of a potable
water supply system from any source(s) other than the intended source.

Back-siphonage means the flow or water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances under
vacuum conditions into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any
source(s) other than the intended source, caused by the reduction of pressure in the potable water
system.

Backflow prevention assembly means an assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow that is acceptable to the water manager.

Contamination means a degradation of the quality of the potable water supply by sewage,
industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other materials that may create a health hazard.

Cross Connection means any physical connection or arrangement of piping or fixtures
which may allow nonpotable water or industrial fluids or other material of questionable quality
to come into contact with potable water inside a water distribution system. This would include
temporary conditions, such as swing connections; removable sections; four-way plug valves;
spools; dummy sections of pipe, swivel, or change-over devices; or sliding multiport tubes or
other plumbing arrangements.

Cross connection -controlled means a connection between a potable water system and a
nonpotable water system with an approved backflow prevention assembly properly installed and
maintained so that it will continuously afford the protection commensurate with the degree of
hazard.

Cross connection -containment means the installation of an approved backflow assembly
at the water service connection to any customer's premises where it is physically and
economically infeasible to find permanently eliminate or control all actual or potential cross
connections within the customer's water distribution system; or, it shall mean the installation of
an approved backflow prevention assembly on the service line leading to and supplying a portion
of a customer's water system where there are actual or potential cross connections which cannot
be effectively eliminated or controlled at the point of the cross connection (isolation).

B. The service pipes and connections from the secondary main to the water meter,
including the meter box, a meter yoke and valve are to be placed within the parking strip or
behind the sidewalk within a public utility easement by the City, a licensed contractor or
plumber, or licensed landscaper to current City secondary water development standards, and
subject to City inspection and approval. The City or its designee shall install the water meter.
The plumber shall warrant the work and facilities installed by him against defects in
workmanship or materials for a period of one year from date of acceptance thereof by the City.
The secondary water connection shall either (1) consist of a dual culinary and secondary
connection with a reduced pressure backflow assembly (RPZ)installed with the air gap distance
12 inches above ground, to prevent a cross-connection and a swing joint installed so that both
systems cannot be on at the same time, to prevent interconnection. The backflow assembly shall
be tested within 10 days of initial use and annually thereafter; (2) consist of the secondary-only
connection to the lawn irrigation systems. If the connection is a transition from an existing
culinary only supply, to a secondary only connection. The existing culinary shutoff valve and
backflow preventer assembly, must be removed completely and capped, to not allow the use of
both culinary and secondary water.

C. Backflow Prevention Required. No water service connection to any premises shall
be installed or maintained unless the water supply is protected by backflow prevention that
controls backflow and cross containment. Service of water to a consumer found to be in violation
of this ordinance shall be discontinued by the City after written notification of violation and an
appropriate time suspense for voluntary compliance, and service will not be restored until such
conditions or defects are corrected.

D. Location of Backflow Prevention. An approved backflow prevention assembly
shall be installed on all service lines at or near the property line or immediately inside the
building being served; but, in all cases, before the first branch line leading off the service line.


i=. Access to Water System. The portion of the customer's water system that is not on
public property or public right-of-way or beyond the meter shall be open for inspection at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the City to determine whether cross
connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including violation of this ordinance exist.

F, Backflow Prevention That Is Not Approved. All presently-installed backflow
prevention assemblies which are not state-approved backflow prevention assemblies shall be
replaced within thirty (30) days of notice thereof with a state-approved backflow prevention
assembly.

G. Violations of This Section. If violations of this section exist or if there has not
been any corrective action taken by the owner of the premises within ten (10) days of the written
notification of the deficiencies, then the City shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the
premises by providing a physical break in the service line until acceptable corrective action has
been taken in conformance with all statutes relating to plumbing, safe drinking water suppliers,
and this ordinance.

This Ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 2019-18, shall take effect July 1, 2019.

This Ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 2019-18, shall take effect July 1, 2019.

PASSED AND APPROVED by the Council of Herriman, Utah, this 26" day of June,

2019.
HERRIMAN
a ee

ATTEST: Jared Henderson, Mayor Pro Tempore

HERRIMAN

wayyy

Se 1999 se,
te of Wig
4: : Sos)

4 . — ~

CE SCISNURS


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2019-18

SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CULINARY AND SECONDARY
WATER FEE AND RATE STRUCTURE WITH RESPECT TO A HYDRANT METER AND
RESTATING THE WATER FEE AND RATE STRUCTURE AND ENACTING RELATED
PROVISIONS, ESTABLISHING ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES, AND ESTABLISHING
REQUIREMENTS AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts Absent
Nicole Martin Absent
Jared Henderson x
Sherrie Ohrn X x
Clint Smith x X

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 26" day of
June, 2019, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2019-18
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION

This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 26" day
of June, 2019, with a short summary being published on the 2"! day of July 2019, in the Salt Lake
Tribune, a newspaper published in Salt Lake City, Utah. I hereby certify and attest that the
foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings with respect to the ordinance

number referenced above.

Signed this 26" day of June 2019

g ‘co say

VRS

Hemhen

>

LOS

Recorder


