HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-17

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 7 CHAPTER 8 PARK FACILITIES, TRAILS
AND OPEN SPACE

WHEREAS, the Herriman City Council (“Council”) met in regular meeting on June 26,
2019, to consider, among other things, amending Title 7 Chapter 8 Park Facilities, Trails and
Open Space; and

WHEREAS, the City has determined to amend the provision of the Code dealing with
park facilities, trails and open space; and

WHEREAS, the City staff recommends the amendment; and

WHEREAS, the Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the City to
amend Title 7 Chapter 8 Park Facilities, Trails and Open Space.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council that Title 7 Chapter 8 Park
Facilities, Trails and Open Space be amended as attached hereto (designated by interlineating the
words to be deleted and underlining the words to be added).

This Ordinance shall become effective on July 1, 2019.

PASSED AND APPROVED by the Council of Herriman, Utah, this 26" day of June,
2019.

HERRIMAN

Ke
a

ATTEST: Jared Henderson, Mayor Pro Tempore


Chapter 8
PARKS, PARK-AND RECREATION-FACILITIES, TRAILS
AND OPEN SPACE® &

7-8-1: RESERVATIONS; REQUEST FORM:

7-8-2: PRIORITY USAGE:

7-8-3: SPONSORED FUNCTIONS SPECIFIED:

7-8-4: FEES AND DEPOSITS:

7-8-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:

7-8-6: HOURS OF USE OF BLACK RIDGE RESERVOIR PARK:
7-8-7: HOURS OF USE OF THE SKATE PARK:

Add PURPOSE, APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS & DEFINITIONS

DEFINITIONS:

Open space: Open space is any open piece of land that is undeveloped (has no
buildings or other build structures) and is accessible to the public. Open space can
include: natural areas, wildlife and native plant habitats, wetland or watershed areas,
stream corridors, and passive, low impact activities.

Park facilities or facilities: A specific piece of ground, either within the city or that is
under the ownership or control of the city that is operated and maintained by the city
and set apart for the general public, whether developed or undeveloped, including
natural parks and open space, and that may be planted with trees. lawns and other
shrubbery. A park may include within its boundary facilities for sport, entertainment,
dancing, recreation, swimming, or similar functions.

Trail: A linear corridor of property which is part of the parks, trails and recreation master
plan or which connects planned trails and is maintained by the city for the purposes of
hiking, walking, jogging, running, equestrian, cycling, or other such use allowed by this

chapter.

Responsible-Person:

Smoking: Smoking means the possession of any lighted or heated tobacco product in
any form, inhaling, exhaling, burning, or heating a substance containing tobacco or
nicotine intended for inhalation through a cigar, cigarette, pine, hookah or similar device,

using an e-cigarette, or using an oral smoking device intended to circumvent the
prohibition of smoking in this chapter.

Special event: Any athletic event, entertainment event or political event, whether held
for profit, nonprofit or charitable purposes.


Modifications: Modifications means any modification of existing lands, vegetation or
structures from its existing condition including any form of digging, landscaping,
construction, or placement of structures.

7-8-1: RESERVATIONS; REQUEST FORM: ©! ce

groups desiring to use the park facilities must complete a reservation request-formonline or by
contacting the City. A-copy-of-such-form-is-available-from-the-city office (Ord.1.0-43.-9-2-2010)

7-8-2: PRIORITY USAGE: ©!

City sponsored and city related functions ("sponsored functions") will have priority over
functions that are not city sponsored or city related functions ("nonsponsored
functions"). Sponsored functions will not be charged a rental fee and security deposit.
Nonsponsored functions will be charged a rental fee and security deposit and will be on
a first come first served basis (after satisfying sponsored functions use). Nonspensered
functions-requesting-use-of the-Rosecrest Pavilion -will be required_to-sign-a-_permit-and
reservation-agreement_which-is-on-file-in-the-city office-The individual (the "responsible
person") signing the reservation request form for the proposed user shall be personally
responsible for the proper use of the facility in question. (Ord. 10-43, 9-2-2010)

7-8-3: SPONSORED FUNCTIONS SPECIFIED: ©! Ce

Generally, sponsored functions include volunteer groups whose functions and
established efforts benefit the community. Sponsored functions include the following:

A. City council_and City events;

B. Planning and zoning commission;

C.Board of adjustment:

CD. Herriman City arts-councit City CounciLapproved committees and boards:

DE. County, State and/or federal sponsored events; and

EF. Others, as approved. (Ord.t0-43_9-2-2010)

7-8-4: PARK FACILITY RENTAL FEES AND DEPosits: ©! C4

A
Except as provided below tthe application fee, rental fee and security deposit for
nonsponsored functions is due twenty-four (24) hours seven-(7)-days-before the

scheduled event. Please see city master fee schedule for fees and deposit

amountscosts. (Ord-10-43,-9-2-2010)

B. If the event is a Special Event, thirty (30) days’ notice is required.

C. The application, rental fee and security deposit for the Rosecrest Pavilion Park
Facility is due thritythirty (30) days in advance.

D. The sublease of Herriman City Parks, Park Facilities, Trails and Open Space is
strictly prohibited.

E. The security deposit will be returned to the group, only if the facility is left clean,
orderly, undamaged, and all furnishings are returned to their original
arrangement as determined by the city.

F. Acertificate of insurance may be required with the City listed as an additional
insuredinsured.

G. Reservations may be transferred or cancellation refunds granted if written notice
is given to the city at least twenty four (24) hours prior to the event.

H. The responsible person must be present at the facility during all reserved
activities. Any repair costs resulting from damages to the facilities will be the
responsibility of the responsible person.

PARK FACILITY RENTAL RULES:

A. The facility must be left in a clean and orderly manner. All trash must be placed

condition and location in which they were found.

B. Any special accommodations or seating arrangements are the responsibility of
the group renting the park facility.


. Apermit is required for exclusive use of the rented park facility. The permitted

7-8-5:

use only applies to the park facility rented and does include the surrounding park
space, parking lots or other amenities.

GENERAL PARK FACILITY RULES AND REGULATIONS: ©! 4

It is unlawful for any pPersons to be are-prehibited-from-being in any park facility

when the gate to the park is locked or official sianage indicates the park i is closed
closedbe

Park facility use is prohibited if the park facility has been fenced, locked, and/or

temporarily closed to the public.

Hours for park restroom facilities are posted at each facility and vary by park

facility and season.

A.D. Smoking is not permitted in any park facilities or within 50 feet of a park

E.

facility-facility.

The sale, possession or consumption of any alcoholic beverages is prohibited
without appropriate permits and licenses from Herriman City and the Utah State
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.

Modifications of the facility are prohibited without the written authorization from

City staff.

G.

Itis unlawful to aAdjustiag or tamper with sprinklers, sprinkling valves, or

A
|

sprinkling irrigation systemsis-prohibited.

Alltrashmust-be-placed_in-the-properreceptacies—and-t All trash must be placed
in the proper receptacles, and tables, etc., returned to substantially the same
condition and location in which they were found.

Unauthorized motor vehicles shall not be permitted beyond designated road

ways, designated trails and in designated parking areas at a park facility or trail.


It is unlawful to be in pRPossession of illegal or unlawful weapons, contraband,

illegal drugs, or other illicit items in any park facilityis-prohibited.

It is unlawful to Ne-gambleing, fighting, quarreling, or use efprofane language

will-be-permitted-in any park facilities.

Amplified music or sound is prohibited unless authorized in writing by City staff.

. Except for display operators properly licensed as required by Utah law, it is

unlawful for any person to display. discharge, ignite, explode, project or
otherwise fire or permit the ignition, expulsion projection of any fireworks in any

park facility.

_ Except within 4 ——feet of an approved fireplaces or grills, it is unlawful to allow

an open flame -within-fires +f-any park facility, trail or open SpaceFires are

Any dog in a public park, on trails or in open space must be continually kept on a

leash, not over eight feet (8’) in length except for designated off leash area. City
staff may grant exceptions to this subsection for licensed animal exhibitions.

Inflatables, mechanical rides, water slide and any other private attraction are

prohibited without a permit.

. Archery, golf and paintball are prohibited without a permit.

The City reserves the right to revoke a reservation or close a park facility in the

S.

event of an emergency or matter of public safety.

_Camping in a park facility is prohibited without a permit.

T.

The posting or sharing of signs, banners, flyers or other information is prohibited

U.

in park facilities-unless-authorized-by-City staff.

Exclusive use of a park or park facility is prohibited without a permit.


-Exceptas-provided-herein; from-March-1-to-November-t4.-all facilities-close-at-ten-thirty-o'clock
(10:30) P:M.{MST-or daylight saving time,as-applicable).(Ord-14-20, 8-14-2011)

~ Generally, fromNovember 15-to-the last day-of February,allfacilities-close_at six-o'clock
(6:00)-P-M(MST or daylight saving time,as applicable).

~Any-special accommodations-or seating -arrangements-are the responsibility-of the group
using the facility.

D. Children must be supervised at all times by an adult.

E.Consistent-with the Utah clean-airstatute;smoking-will not be -permitted-in-or around the facilities.

F. Possession-or consumption-of_an-alcoholic beverage inthe facilities is prohibited.

G.-Possession-of illegal-or- unlawful weapons, contraband,_illegal- drugs, or other-illicit items-in-the
facilities is prohibited, (Ord. 10-43, 9-2-2010)

~No-gamblingfighting, quarreling, or use of profane ianguage will be-permitted in-the facilities.

~Parking-s-allowed-only in designated areas and stalls.

-No-motorized vehicles are permitted -outside designated-areas.

- No modification of the facilities is permitted.

L—-No-digging at the facilities is permitted.

7-8-6: HOURS-OF USE OF BLACK-RIDGE RESERVOIR PARK FACILITY: ©! ici

ADDITIONAL BLACKRIDGE RESERVOIR PARK FACILITY GENERAL
RULES & REGULATIONS

A._Dogs are not allowed on the beach or in the water.

B. Fishing is prohibited.

C. Hours for park restroom facilities are posted at each facility and vary by park
facility and season.

D. Motorized watercraft is prohibited.

——Gates-atthe Blackridge- Reservoir-Park Facility are locked-at +0:00-PM_-nightly-and-opened-at

Fhe-hours-that the Black Ridge Reservoir Park-area-is open-and-closed-are-as follows: The Black
Ridge-Reservoir Park-area-shall-be-closed-beginning November +throughMareh-34 from -six

o'clock-(6:00)-P.M.-untiL eight o'clock (8:00)-A.M. of the next day-and-shall-be- open-from-eight
o'clock (8:00)-A-M-until-six-o'cloek (6:00) P.M.

B.The Black-Ridge- Reservoir Park-area shall be closed-beginning April 4 through October-34-from
nine-o'clock-(9:00)-P.M.-until seven-o'clock_(7:00)-A.M.-of the next day-and-shall-be-open-from
seven-o'clock-(7:00)-A:M_-until nine-o'clock(9:00)-P.M.

G-All-times-are- MST or daylight saving-time, as applicable.

Dtis-unlawful for any-unauthorized person-to-be- in the Black Ridge Reservoir Park-area-on-foot-or
any type-of motor -vehicle-or other conveyance during hours that the Black Ridge Reservoir Park

area is closed. (Ord-—42-24,-6-28-2042)

7-8-7: HOURS OF USE OF THE SKATE PARK FACILITY: ©! ce

A. APersons are prohibited from being in the Herriman Skate Park from dusk
until 9:00 AM, Mountain Standard Time or Mountain Daylight Time as
applicableMSF.

B. Hours for park restroom facilities are posted at each facility and vary by park
facility and season.

A... Fhe-hours-that the-Skate Park_areais open-and-closed-are_as-follows:
Fhe-Skate Park-area-shall be closed beginning November 15 throughthetast
day-of February-from-six-o'clock (6:00) P.M-_until-eight o'clock-(8:00)-A.M_of
the next-day-and-shall- be-open-from-eight o'clock (8:00)-A-M-until-six-o'elock

ADDITIONAL HERRIMAN SKATE PARK FACILITY GENERAL RULES &
REGULATIONS:

A. The Herriman Skate Park is a skate or ride at your own risk, non-supervised,

non-motorized facility designed for skateboarding, in-line skating and BMX
freestyle biking only. Motorized vehicles, motorized scooters, or other motorized
wheeled devices are not permitted.

B—The Herriman Skate Park may be closed at any time by Herriman City.

B.

C. Graffiti and vandalism of the Skate Park is prohibited and may lead to closure.

D. All trash is to be placed in the provided receptacles.

E.

Animals are prohibited from the Herriman Skate Park Facility at all times.

——Portable ramps, rails, platforms or any other structures are not to be erected at

any time.

_

HOURS-OF USE OF HERRIMAN OPEN SPACE, PRIMITIVE TRAILS AND URBAN

TRAILS:
—FPersons-are_prohibited-from-being inthe Herriman-Open-Space—on-Primitive

Fraits-and/or-Urban-Trails-between-the hours-of 10-00 PM-and5-00 AM MSF.
unless-otherwise-posted._or when-the-park-facility has been-fencedtocked.
and/ortemporarily-closed-to-public-use-exceptas-authorized-by-City-staff-

ADDITIONAL HERRIMAN OPEN SPACE, PRIMITIVE TRAILS AND URBAN TRAIL

FACILITY GENERAL RULES & REGULATIONS:

A.

Open flames Firesare strictly prohibited.

B.

Dogs must be on leash at all times.

Unauthorized motor vehicles shall not be permitted beyond desiqnated road

ways, designated trails and in designated parking areas at a park facility or trail.

Littering, including leaving animal waste is prohibited. All garbage and debris

must be packed out.

It is unlawful tounlawful to enter or remain upon a trail tFrails that is closedean

be-closed-anytime—Hespassing-on_to-trails marked-as-closed-is_prohibited.


ADDITIONAL ARCHES PARK GENERAL RULES & REGULATIONS FOR
SLACKLINES AND HAMMOCKS:

Nef) alt= s aia oct aalsele =
> StictG GAG = OG =

hours—Overnight use or camping is prohibited.

B. Slacklines and Hammocks can only be used in designated areas elpnyonly.
Attaching slacklines or hammocks to any trees, buildings, signs or other
structures is prohibited.

C. All slacklines and hammocks may be affixed on a temporary basis and may not
be left unattended. All slacklines and hammocks are to be completely removed
prior to leaving the facility.

D. Aslackline may not be elevated to a height of more than four feet at the center of
the span when the user is on the line and weighting it.

E. Activities such as stunts or tricks involving flips are not permitted.


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2019-17

SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 7, CHAPTER 8, PARK
FACILITIES, TRAIL AND OPEN SPACE

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts Absent
Nicole Martin Absent
Jared Henderson xX
Sherrie Ohrn x X
Clint Smith x x

TT

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 26" day of
June, 2019, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2019-17
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION

This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 26" day
of June, 2019, with a short summary being published on the 2" day of July 2019, in the Salt Lake
Tribune, a newspaper published in Salt Lake City, Utah. I hereby certify and attest that the
foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings with respect to the ordinance

number referenced above.

ora te
CHTirpon tes
i Aa
Kr
HERRIMAN
crTy

Signed this 26" day of June 2019

MM \ abe
t . City Recorder


