HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-23

Z2019-037 - TEXT CHANGE TO THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE TO PERMIT
USE OF THE A-.25 AGRICULTURAL ZONE

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to state law, may enact a land use ordinance
establishing regulations for land use and development; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to state law, the Planning Commission shall prepare and recommend
to the City Council the proposed land development code amendment; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten days prior to the
said public hearing to prepare and recommend to the City Council a proposed land development code
text change; and

WHEREAS, a notice of a Planning Commission public hearing on the land development
code text change was published on May 5, 2019, for a May 16, 2019, public hearing at 7:00 p.m.,
which hearing was continued to June 6, 2019; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission made a recommendation on the land development
code text change in a public meeting held June 6, 2019, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council Chamber;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, the City Council must hold a public meeting;
and

WHEREAS, the City Council public meeting was held on July 10, 2019, at 7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the land development code text change as recommended by the Planning Commission;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council that the following text
change be adopted as an amendment to the land development code of the City:

The following section is an excerpt from Title 10 Herriman Land Development Code, which has been
provided for context. Only the following text, which has been marked by the City with an underline
or strikethrough, has been approved for amendment:

Chapter 9
AGRICULTURAL ZONES
10-9-1:; PURPOSE:

A. A-.25 Zone: the A-254ene-we isinally-intendedto-provide-areas-in-the-City-fe ensi
Sdantinl devel yy _ the -City-C i ; Sad shtic

‘= = =e ave ~ Q Han a CGentiol davalonmen =
a = yt o s, = = <
al

lenger-consider-rezoning_any-propertytotheA-25 Zone- The purpose of the A-.25 Zone is to
provide areas in the City for low density residential development. together with limited
agricultural uses

B. A-.5 Zone: The purpose of the A-.5 Zone is to provide areas in the City for low density
residential development, together with limited agricultural uses.

C. A-1 Zone: The purpose of the A-1 Zone is to provide areas in the City for low density residential
development and agricultural uses.

10-9-6: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

C. Density In A-.25 Zone: The baseline density in any residential development located in the A-.25
Zone shall be 1.8 lots per acre.

1. Baseline Density Calculations: Baseline density shall be calculated by dividing the total
number of units anticipated with respect to the project by the total aggregate acreage of the
project. (Example: The total acreage of a proposed project is 50 acres and 90 units are
anticipated in the project resulting in a baseline density of 1.8, calculated by dividing 90 by
50.)

2. Bonus Density: A density bonus may be allowed for projects which comply with the
bonus density requirements of this subsection. The amount of bonus density shall be
determined by the type of bonus density requirements and improvements incorporated in the
development proposal as set forth in the following chart.

a. For applicants requesting a density greater than baseline density, the Planning
Commission shall determine whether the applicant has complied with necessary
design components as set forth in the following chart and shall determine the
resulting density.

b. The additional units per acre allowed above the baseline density shall be determined
by adding the density bonus points to the baseline density. This figure is the
additional number of units per acre allowed above the baseline density. This number,
when added to the baseline, shall determine the total density per acre for the project.
Provided, however, in no event shail the resulting density exceed 2.5 lots per acre in
a subdivision.

c. Example: A subdivision includes a splash pad as part of the development. The

resulting maximum density per acre is 2.1 lots per acre calculated by adding the 1.8

baseline density and the 0.3 density bonus points. Previdedhoweverin-ne-event

shallthe resulting density exceed 2-5 tots peracreinasubdivision orf lots peraere
ia planned development.

Bonus Density Requirements Density Bonus Points
Dedicating and installing at least a 10' park strip behind the sidewalk | 0.1 unit per acre
adjacent to a collector or arterial road
Dedicating and installing a trail connection to an existing trail that | 0.1 unit per acre
provides an amenity for the residents of the proposed project
Dedicating and installing a trail that provides an amenity for the larger | 0.2 unit per acre
community and is designated in the Parks Master Plan
Dedicating and installing infrastructure that is identified as a "system | 0.2 unit per acre
improvement" by the City
Combining 2 or more properties to create 1 larger project of at least 10 | 0.05 unit per acre for each
acres. The properties must be contiguous to each other and must be | 10 acres combined;
consolidated from different property owners maximum of 0.2 units per
acre for this category
Providing '/2 acre lots that buffer lots adjacent to existing larger lots or | 0.1 unit per acre
agricultural uses or zones
In addition to providing '/ acre lots adjacent to existing larger lots, | 0.1 unit per acre
developing at least 10% of the lots throughout the project as half acre
lots

In a subdivision providing a local park at least '/2 acre in size or upon | 0.1 unit per acre
approval of the City paying to the City a fee in lieu. For purposes of
this provision a park must include a playground or other amenities
consistent with the size of the park and not just be a detention pond
In a subdivision providing a neighborhood park at least 1 acre in size | 0.2 unit per acre
or upon approval of the City paying to the City a fee in lieu. For
purposes of this provision a park must include a playground or other
amenities consistent with the size of the park and not just be a
detention pond

In a subdivision, providing a community park of at least 3 acres that | 0.3 unit per acre
includes a splash pad, skate park, or other necessary facility as
outlined in the Parks Master Plan or upon approval of the City paying
to the City a fee in lieu

Donating to the City a site for a publie-seheel, public buildings, or | 0.3 unit per acre
other public community facilities


PASSED AND APPROVED this 10" day of July 2019

HERRIMAN

—22_ AH:

ATTEST: Mayor David Watts

\ . rem, City Recorder
HERRIMAN

Th

Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2019-23
SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING A TEXT CHANGE TO THE LAND
DEVELOPMENT CODE TO PERMIT THE USE OF A-.25 ZONE WITH THE ELIMINATION
OF THE DENSITY BONUS CRITERIA OF DONATING PROPERTY TO A PUBLIC
SCHOOL

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts x

Nicole Martin x

Jared Henderson X x

Sherrie Ohrn xX x

Clint Smith xX

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 10" day of
July, 2019, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2019-23
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION

This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 10" day
of July, 2019, with a short summary being published on the 16" day of July 2019, in the Salt
Lake Tribune, a newspaper published in Salt Lake City, Utah. I hereby certify and attest that the
foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings with respect to the ordinance
number referenced above.

90rate S
CP corporag
Ane las

[
HERRIM AN

Signed this 10" day of July 2019

fe of OU Lf jatkie, ie City Recorder
——— ~

