HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-30

22018-016 - TEXT CHANGE TO THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
REGARDING FENCE MATERIALS

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to state law, may enact a land use ordinance
establishing regulations for land use and development; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to state law, the Planning Commission shall prepare and recommend
to the City Council the proposed land development code amendment; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten days prior to the
said public hearing to prepare and recommend to the City Council a proposed land development code
text change; and

WHEREAS, a notice of a Planning Commission public hearing on the land development
code text change was published on September 23, 2018, for an October 4, 2018, public hearing at
7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission made a recommendation on the land development
code text change in a public meeting held Februrary 7, 2019, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council
Chamber; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, the City Council must hold a public meeting;
and

WHEREAS, the City Council public meeting was held on September 11, 2019, at 7:00 p.m;
and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the land development code text change as recommended by the Planning Commission;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council that the following text
change be adopted as an amendment to the land development code of the City:

The following section is an excerpt from Title 10 Herriman Land Development Code, which has been

provided for context. Only the following text, which has been marked by the City with an underline

or strikethrough, has been approved for amendment:

10-21-5: FENCING MATERIALS:

[>

Permitted Fence Materials. Fences and walls shall be made of high quality, durable materials

that require minimal maintenance. The following fencing materials shall be allowed in all

zones, except as otherwise provided in this section or by a more restrictive provision of this

title or engineering standard:

1.

>
I> |e |S

Decorative precast concrete or integrally colored and textured block, brick, stone, or
other masonry wall materials;

Heavy-gauge vinyl fence materials with beige, white or neutral color;

Composite fence materials: or

Decorative wrought iron fence materials.

Prohibited Fence Materials. The following fencing materials shall be prohibited in all zones:

IN [Re

[> |e

Plastic materials other than vinyl:

Materials not typically used, designated, or manufactured for fencing, such as metal
roofing panels, corrugated or sheet metal, tarps or plywood:

Scrap materials such as scrap lumber and scrap metal:

Wood fencing of any type:


5.
6.

Chain link fencing, with or without slats: or

Barbed wire, concertina wire, razor ribbon, and similar fencing materials.

C. Fence Material Exceptions. The following fence materials may be permitted if compliant

with the specified requirements:

1.

D.

[

Vinyl coated chain link fencing may be erected for recreational land uses as provided in

section 10-21-10 of this chapter:

Straight-line barbed wire with wood or metal fence posts may be used to enclose or
protect an agricultural land use that encompasses five (5) acres or more of property and is
registered as a protected greenbelt as per the Utah Farmland Assessment Act: and

Large animal corrals in agricultural zones shall be constructed of sturdy fence materials
that may include metal pipes, horse-grade vinyl, wood posts, or a minimum of one and
one-half inch (1-1/2") thick wood planks without dangerous protrusions. Electric fence
wire may also be used if attached along the top of an approved fence material.
Electrically charged fence wire must be removed within 30 days of the time when large
animals no longer live on the property. No electrically charged fences will be permitted
between noncompatible uses, nor along any public rights-of-way.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 11" day of September 2019

ATTEST:

HERRIMAN

S—————_—

Mayor Bro Tempore Jared Henderson

Hr eRJAVAN

cily

Si 1999 3

Fe i s)
Mats :
Za


ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2019-30

Herriman City

SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE TEXT CHANGE TO THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE

REGARDING FENCE MATERIAL

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY

ROLL CALL
NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts x x
Nicole Martin Absent
Jared Henderson xX
Sherrie Ohrn X X
Clint Smith Absent
TOTALS 3 ,)

This resolution was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 11" day of
September, 2019, on a roll call vote as described above.


