HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2020-08

AN ORDINANCE MAKING AMENDMENTS TO THE ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
ENFORCEMENT PROCESS - SERVICE OF PROCESS FOR CODE VIOLATIONS
AND ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF NONCOMPLIANCE

WHEREAS, the Herriman City Council (“Council”) met in regular meeting on F ebruary
12, 2020, to consider, among other things, an ordinance making amendments to the
administrative code enforcement process -service of process for code violations and issuance of a
certificate of noncompliance; and

WHEREAS, the City staff recommends these amendments to make enforcement of code
violation more efficient; and

WHEREAS, the Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the City to adopt
an ordinance making technical amendments to service of process for code violations.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council that the Herriman Code of
Ordinance be amended as attached (designated by interlineating the words to be deleted and
underlining the words to be added):

1-11-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:

A. Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to provide a means for timely abatement of code
enforcement violations in order to protect the health and safety of the public, to foster
neighborhood stability, to preserve the appearance, character and beauty of neighborhoods, to
encourage community pride, to preserve the value of property, and to protect the general welfare
of the city and its citizens, businesses and visitors. This chapter provides for progressive
enforcement measures to abate violations; the most aggressive forms of enforcement are
generally reserved for the most recalcitrant violators.

B. Applicability: The provisions of this chapter may be applied to any violation of this code.

C. Existing Law Continued: The provisions of this chapter do not invalidate any other title or
ordinance, but shall be read in conjunction with those titles and ordinances as an additional
remedy available for enforcement of those ordinances.

D. Nonexclusive Remedies: Notwithstanding anything contained to the contrary, the city may
proceed pursuant to Utah Code Annotated sections 10-11-1 through 10-11-4 without complying
with any of the provisions of this chapter. In addition, the city may take any or all of the remedies
identified in this code (administrative, civil or criminal) to abate a violation and/or to punish any
person or entity who creates, causes or allows a violation to exist. The abatement of a nuisance
does not prejudice the right of the city or any person to recover damages or penalties for its past
existence.

E. No Mandatory Duty; Civil Liability: In establishing performance standards or establishing an
obligation to act by a city officer or employee, these standards shall not be construed as creating a
mandatory duty for purposes of tort liability if the officer or employee fails to perform directed
duty or duties.

F. Responsibility for Nuisances: The responsible person is responsible for abating nuisances
pursuant to this chapter. Any person, whether as owner, agent or occupant, who creates, aids in
creating, or contributes to a nuisance, or who supports, continues or retains a nuisance, is
responsible for the nuisance and is a "responsible person" pursuant to this chapter. Every
successive owner or tenant of a property or premises who fails to abate a continuing nuisance
upon or in the use of such property or premises caused by a former owner or tenant is a
responsible person and is therefor responsible in the same manner as the one who first created the
nuisance.

G. Service of Process:

1. Whenever service is required to be given under this chapter for enforcement purposes, the
document shall be served by one of the methods of service provided for in the Utah rules of civil
procedure specifically including certified mail return receipt requested.

2. The failure to serve all responsible persons shall not affect the validity of any proceedings.

H. Constructive Notice of Recorded Documents: Whenever a document is recorded with the
county recorder as authorized or required by this chapter or applicable state codes, recordation
shall provide constructive notice of the information contained in the recorded documents.

I. General Enforcement Authority: Whenever an enforcement official finds that a violation of this
code has occurred or continues to exist, the appropriate administrative enforcement procedure
may be used as outlined in this chapter. The director, or any designated enforcement official, has
the authority necessary to gain compliance with the provisions of this code. These powers
include the power to issue notices of violation and administrative citations, inspect public and
private property, abate public and private property, and use whatever judicial and administrative
remedies are available under this code.

J. Adoption of Policy and Procedures: The hearing officer is authorized to develop policies and
procedures relating to the hearing procedures, scope of hearings, subpoena powers, and other
matters relating to the administrative code enforcement program. The policy and procedures shall
be approved by the city council.

K. Authority to Inspect: All inspections, entries, examinations and surveys shall be done in a
reasonable manner based upon cause. If the responsible person refuses to allow the enforcement
official to enter the property and the violation is not visible from an adjacent property, the
enforcement official shall obtain a search warrant.

L. False Information or Refusal Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make
a false statement or refuse to give his or her name or address with intent to deceive or interfere
with an enforcement official who is enforcing the provisions of this chapter.

M. Failure to Obey Subpoena: It is unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to obey a subpoena
issued for an administrative code enforcement hearing.

N. Recovery of Costs: The city shall be authorized to recover all associated costs, fines,
penalties, etc., following whatever legal means necessary.

1-11-3: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:

A. Authority: Any condition caused, maintained or permitted to exist in violation of any
provisions of this code that constitutes a violation may be abated by the city pursuant to the
procedures set forth in this section.

B. Courtesy Notice:

1. Content: Whenever the director or any designated enforcement official determines that a
violation of this code has occurred or continues to exist, the director or enforcement official may
choose to proceed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. If the provisions of this chapter are
used, a courtesy notice shall be sent to a responsible person via regular mail at the last known
post office address as disclosed by the records of the county assessor, or by personal service. If
the responsible person identified in the courtesy notice fails to bring the violation into
compliance within ten (10) days of the date of the courtesy notice, or as stated in the ordinance
that is being violated, the city shall issue a notice of violation. The courtesy notice shall include
the following information:

a. Name of property owner;
b. Street address of violation;
c. Date violation observed;

d. All code sections violated and description of condition of the property that violates the
applicable codes;

e. A statement explaining the type of remedial action required to permanently correct outstanding
violations, which may include corrections, repairs, demolition, removal, or other appropriate
action;

f. Notice that a failure to bring the violation into compliance within the established deadline
could result in further legal action.

2. Extension of Deadline: The director or authorized code enforcement official shall have the
authority to extend the deadline set forth in the courtesy notice for good cause.

C. Notice of Violation:

1. Content: If a responsible person who is served a courtesy notice as described in subsection B
of this section fails to bring the violation into compliance within the established deadline, a
notice of violation shall be issued to a responsible person. The notice of violation shall include
the following information:

a. Name of property owner;
b. Street address of violation;
c. Date violation observed;

d. All code sections violated and description of condition of the property that violates the
applicable codes;

e. A statement explaining the type of remedial action required to permanently correct outstanding
violations, which may include corrections, repairs, demolition, removal, or other appropriate
action;

f. Specific date to correct the violations listed in the notice of violation, which date shall be at
least ten (10) days from the date of service of the notice of violation, or as stated in the ordinance
that is being violated;

g. Explanation of the consequences should the responsible person fail to comply with the terms
and deadlines as prescribed in the notice of violation, which may include, but is not limited to,
criminal prosecution; civil penalties; revocation of permits; recordation of the notice of violation;
withholding of future municipal permits; abatement of the violation; costs; administrative fees;
and any other legal remedies;

h. That civil penalties will begin to accrue immediately on expiration of the date to correct
violations;

i. The amount of the civil penalty on each violation and that the penalty will accrue daily until the
property is brought into compliance;

j. That only one notice of violation is required for any twelve (12) month period, and that civil
penalties begin immediately upon any subsequent violations of the notice. The responsible
person may request a hearing on the renewed violations by following the same procedure as
provided for the original notice;

k. Procedures to request a hearing as provided in subsection 1-11-8B of this chapter and
consequences for failure to request one;

|. That a reinspection fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) may be assessed if more than one inspection is
required to determine if a violation has been abated.

2. Service of Notice of Violation: The notice of violation shall be served on a responsible person
using one of the methods of service listed in subsection 1-11-1G of this chapter.

3. Additional Notices: More than one notice of violation may be issued against the same
responsible person, if it encompasses different dates, or different violations.

D. Certificate of Noncompliance:

Content: If a responsible person who is served a notice of violation as described in subsection C
of this section fails to bring the violation into compliance within the established deadline, a
certificate of noncompliance shall be issued to a responsible person. The certification of
noncompliance shall include the following information:

a. Name of property owner;
b. Street address of violation;

c. A statement stating that fines have been and will continue to accrue and the rate at which they
accrue;

d. That a reinspection fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) may be assessed if more than one inspection
is required to determine if a violation has been abated.

E. Service of Certificate of Noncompliance: The certificate of noncompliance shall be sent to the
responsible person via regular mail at the last known post office address of the responsible
person.

F.. Failure To Bring Property Into Compliance: If a responsible person who is served with a
notice of violation, as described in subsection 1-11-1G of this chapter, fails to bring a violation
into compliance within ten (10) days of service of the notice of violation, civil penalties shall be
owed to the city for each and every subsequent day of violation and a certificate of
noncompliance shall be issued to a responsible person. The director or authorized code
enforcement official shall have the authority to extend the deadline set forth in the notice of
violation or stay imposition of penalties for good cause.

G. Inspections: The city shall inspect each property one time after the deadline on any notice or
order. If additional inspections are required, a reinspection fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) may be
added to the civil penalties

PASSED AND APPROVED by the Council of Herriman, Utah, this 12" day of
February, 2020.

HERRIMAN

—_———,

ATTEST: Jaret-Hefiderson, Mayor Pro Tempore

FIERRIMAN

Ch

ORDINANCE NO. 2020-06
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION
This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 8" day of
January, 2020, with a short summary being published on the 14" day of January 2020, in the Salt
Lake Tribune, a newspaper published in Salt Lake City, Utah. I hereby certify and attest that the

foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings with respect to the ordinance
number referenced above.

Signed this 8" day of January 2020

y _
—AG JatKie om, Cit Recorder —

HERRIMAN
cry

S 1999
“le of WE


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2020-08
SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE MAKING AMENDMENTS TO THE
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCESS — SERVICE OF PROCESS FOR
CODE VIOLATIONS AND ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF NONCOMPLIANCE

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts x

Jared Henderson Absent
Sherrie Ohrn 4

Steven Shields xX

Clint Smith X x

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 12" day of
February, 2020, on a roll call vote as described above.

