HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 05-2020

AN ORDINANCE MAKING AMENDMENTS TO THE ADMINISTRATIVE CODE -
MEETINGS; PROCEDURE AND CONDUCT AND MINUTES APPROVAL
PROCEDURE

WHEREAS, the Herriman City Council (“Council”) met in regular meeting on January
8, 2020, to consider, among other things, an ordinance making amendments to the administrative
code- meetings; procedure and conduct and minutes approval procedure ; and

WHEREAS, the City staff recommends these amendments to make changes to the
Council meeting time as directed by Council and changing the minutes approval process to be
consistent with state statute; and

WHEREAS, the Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the City to adopt
an ordinance changing Council meeting times and the changing the minutes approval process.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council that the Herriman Code of
Ordinance be amended as attached (designated by interlineating the words to be deleted and
underlining the words to be added):

1-6-4: MEETINGS; PROCEDURE AND CONDUCT:

A. Regular Meetings: The City Council shall hold regular meetings on the second and fourth
Wednesday of each month beginning at seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M., in the Herriman City
offices located at 5355 West Herriman Main Street, Herriman, Utah, unless otherwise changed
by the City Council as the need arises.

1. If the meeting date is a legal holiday, then the meeting shall be held at the same time and place
above described on the next following day which is not a legal holiday.

2. The Governing Body may, by resolution, provide for a different time and place for holding
regular meetings of the Governing Body.

B. Special Meetings: If at any time the business of the City requires a special mecting of the
Governing Body, such meeting may be ordered by any two (2) members of the Governing Body.
The order shall be entered in the minutes of the Governing Body. The order shall provide at least
three (3) hours’ notice of the special meeting and notice thereof shall be served by the City
Recorder on each member who did not sign the order by delivering the notice personally or by
leaving it at the member's usual place of abode. The personal appearance by a member at any
specially called meeting constitutes a waiver of the notice required in this subsection.

C. Compelling Attendance: The Governing Body may compel the attendance of its own members
at its meetings and provide penalties it considers necessary for the failure to comply with an
exercise of the authority to compel attendance.

1-6-7: MINUTES APPROVAL PROCEDURE:

A. Definitions: All words and phrases shall have the same meaning as those words and phrases
are defined in Utah Code Annotated section 52-4-101, the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.

B. Minutes Required: Written minutes shall be kept of all meetings of any public body in the
City. The minutes of such meeting shall be kept by the City Recorder or Meeting Clerk, as the
case may be, during the course of any public meeting of the public body.

C. Preparation Of Minutes: Distribution: Within thirty (30) calendar days from the end of such
meeting, the City Recorder or Meeting Clerk, as the case may be, shall prepare proposed minutes
for such meeting and give a copy of the proposed minutes to each member of the public body for
review and comment.

D. Availability Of Proposed Minutes To Public: Once the proposed minutes have been submitted
to members of the public body, the City Recorder or Meeting Clerk, as the case may be, shall,
within a reasonable time, make available to the public the proposed written minutes, which shall
clearly be identified as "awaiting formal approval", or "unapproved", or with some other
appropriate notice that the proposed minutes are subject to change until formally approved, and
they shall become a public document available to any member of the public who requests to read
or copy the proposed minutes.

E. Approval, Correction: The public body shall consider the proposed minutes for approval at the
first meeting of the public body that immediately follows the City Recorder or Meeting Clerk, as
the case may be, submitting the proposed minutes to the members of the public body. The
members of the public body shall either approve the proposed minutes as presented or vote to
correct and amend the proposed written minutes and then approve the corrected and amended
written minutes at that meeting.

F. Failure To Consider: If the public body fails to consider proposed minutes, or does not take
any action to approve the proposed minutes at the first public meeting held by the public body
immediately following the public body's receipt of the proposed minutes from the City Recorder
or the Meeting Clerk, as the case may be, the proposed minutes shall be deemed to have been
approved by the public body and shall stand as proposed.

G. Official Record Of Proceedings: Once the proposed minutes have either been approved by the
public body, or have been deemed to have been approved by the inaction of the public body, the
minutes shall become the official record of the proceedings of the public body and shall be
signed by the City Recorder or the Meeting Clerk, as the case may be, and shall be retained in the
official records of the City and shall be a public document available for inspection and copying
by members of the public as provided under State law.

PASSED AND APPROVED by the Council of Herriman, Utah, this 8" day of January,
2020.

HERRIMAN

4 Mle

ATTEST: “Mayor David Watts


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2020-05
SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE MAKING AMENDMENT TO THE ADMINISTRATIVE
CODE-MEETINGS; PROCEDURE AND CONDUCT AND MINUTES APPROVAL
PROCEDURE.

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts x
Jared Henderson xX X
Sherrie Ohrn Xx
Steven Shields xX
Clint Smith x xX
|

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 8" day of
January, 2020, on a roll call vote as described above.

