HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2021-22

AN ORDINANCE OF THE HERRIMAN CITY COUNCIL AMENDING TITLE 10 OF
THE HERRIMAN CITY CODE TO INCLUDE CHAPTER 33 REGARDING THE
LARGE PROJECT MASTER PLANNED COMMUNITY TOOL

WHEREAS, the Herriman City Council (“Council”) met in regular meeting on August
25, 2021 to consider, among other things, approving an amendment to Title 10 of the Herriman
City Code to include a new section for Large Project Master Communities (“MPC”); and

WHEREAS, the Council is authorized to enact ordinances, codify such ordinances, and
make amendments to such codifications as set forth in Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-707; and

WHEREAS, the City is also authorized by law to exercise legislative powers and enact
ordinances establishing regulations for land use within the limits of the City; and

WHEREAS, the appropriate public notices were provided and the required public
hearings were held on this amendment consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502; and

WHEREAS, the Herriman City Planning Commission (the “Planning Commission”) has
provided the appropriate notice and held a public hearing regarding the MPC as required by Utah
Code Ann. § 10-9a-502; and

WHEREAS, Council has reviewed the proposed changes to Title 10 and hereby finds
that it is in the best interest of the public to adopt the proposed changes by adding Chapter 33 to
Title 10 of the Herriman City Code; and

WHEREAS, the City is authorized to collect fees pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-
510 for certain applications (including land use applications) made to the City; and

WHEREAS, an application made pursuant to the MPC is a land use application subject
to a City-charged fee.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Herriman City Council as follows:

1. Title 10 of the Herriman City Code, is hereby amended and readopted to include
Chapter 33 regarding the Large Project Master Plan Community tool, a copy of which is attached
hereto as Exhibit A.

2. The City Recorder is authorized to publish the updated Title 10, Chapter 33 upon
passage and publication of this Ordinance.

3. The City is authorized and directed to collect a fee of $3,000 for each application
made pursuant to the MPC and the City’s Fee Schedule shall be adjusted to reflect this fee. This
one-time flat fee represents the reasonable costs of processing an application (including review
of a proposed development agreement) made pursuant to the MPC.

4. This ordinance assigned no. 2021-22 shall take effect immediately upon passage and
acceptance as provided herein.

PASSED AND APPROVED by the Council of Herriman, Utah, this 28th day of August, 2021.

HERRIM

vid Watts, Mayor

ATTEST:

Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2021-21
SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10 OF THE HERRIMAN CITY
CODE TO INCLUDE CHAPTER 33 REGARDING THE LARGE PROJECT MASTER
PLANNED COMMUNITY TOOL

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER

David Watts x

Jared Henderson Absent

Sherrie Ohrn X

Steven Shields xX

Clint Smith

xX
TOTALS 4 1

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 25" day of
August, 2021, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2021-22
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION

This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 25" day
of August, 2021, with a short summary being published on the Utah Public Notice website. I
hereby certify and attest that the foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings
with respect to the ordinance number referenced above.

& orate Sp
-OrPpor; ez
Ay? |! Ke

Kr

Signed this 25" day of August, 2021

o Jackie om, Cit¥ Recorder


TITLE 10
LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE

CHAPTER 33
LARGE PROJECT MASTER PLANNED COMMUNITY

10-33-1: FINDINGS

The City Council finds that standard zoning practices such as single-purpose base zones, planned unit developments
or other types of normal zoning classifications are inadequate to address the development of larger parcels of property
in the City to ensure that these developments are well-planned, sensitive to the needs of the City and, also, successful
in recognizing the rights of property owners to develop their land. This is especially true when the property involves
issues of infill and configuration, and when the development of the property may take several years. The City Council
has carefully researched the state-of-the-art practices for how to deal with such larger projects. Based on that research
the City Council has determined that for certain projects it is appropriate to create zoning and other land use
requirements on a property-by-property basis with the development of the property carefully agreed to by the City and
the property owner, and those agreed-upon regulations being enforced and assured by the terms of a development
agreement. The purpose of this ordinance is to create enabling provisions for adopting such specialized zones and
applying them to particular properties.

10-33-2: BASIC REQUIREMENT

The provisions of this Chapter shall apply only to development projects over two hundred (200) contiguous acres in
size.

10-33-3: PROCESS FOR APPLYING; STANDARD OF APPROVAL

The owner, or the owner’s authorized agent, of a property or accumulation of properties that is/are in excess of two
hundred (200) contiguous acres in size may petition the City to create an individual “Large Master Planned
Community” sub-zone and apply that particular sub-zone to the property. The application shall include the elements
listed in Section 10-33-4 below. The Planning Commission shall consider the application and make a recommendation
to the City Council in the same manner as the City considers any other zoning text and mapping petitions at the time
of the application. The City Council, acting in its legislative capacity, shall determine whether to create the sub-zone,
map it to the property and approve the Master Development Agreement required in Section 10-33-5 below. The
application for a sub-zone creates no rights in the property owner until any such sub-zone and the Master Development
are approved by the City Council and recorded against the property.

10-33-4: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION

A. Any application for a “Large Master Planned Community” sub-zone shall include the following and such
other materials as the City may require:

1. The proposed zone name of the subzone;

2. A map of the property proposed for the sub-zone including topographical information at 2’
contours or more detailed;

3. The proposed sub-zone text specifying the permitted, conditional, and accessory uses to be
more fully detailed in the Master Development Agreement; and

4.

A proposed Master Development Agreement.

10-33-5: MASTER DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

A. The proposed Master Development Agreement shall include the items specified in sub-section (C), below,

B. The City Council, in its legislative discretion, shall exercise its general policy determination functions in
considering and may make any modifications to the proposed Master Development Agreement that it deems
appropriate before approving the Master Development Agreement and applying it to the property as a part of
the creation and mapping of the sub-zone.

C. Required Elements in Master Development Agreement:

1.

8.

9.

A master plan of the project showing:

a. The general areas of each intended use and the approximate intensity of each such
use such as the approximate number of each type of residential or support use;
each commercial, office or retail use;

b. The approximate location of major infrastructure such as main public roads, water
tanks, utility lines;

c. The general location size and type of public or private parks, trails and open space;

Proposed development standards for the various types of residential, commercial, retail office
or other uses proposed including lot areas, dimensions and setbacks;

Proposed design standards addressing building height, massing and orientation, common and
private open space, natural resource protection, architectural design and materials, landscaping

and buffering standards, parking and signage;

Proposed process for implementing, administering, enforcing and making modifications to the
proposed project;

The length of the term of the Master Development Agreement;
Processes for amending the Master Development Agreement;

A provision ensuring that the City cannot be held liable for any damages arising out of the
Master Development Agreement;

Any other provisions as required by the City Council master development agreement policy.

Any other items that the City Attorney deems appropriate for consideration by the City.

10-33-6: ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF SUB-ZONE

It is the intent of the City that after the policy considerations by the City Council in adopting the proposed sub-zone,
applying that sub-zone to the property and entering into the Master Development Agreement then any implementation
of the sub-zone or the Master Development Agreement is administrative in nature and not legislative.

