HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2021-30

Z2021-079 - ORDINANCE TO AMEND TITLE 10 OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE TO
REFLECT RECENT CHANGES IN STATE CODE FOR
SINGLE-FAMILY DESIGN STANDARDS

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to state law, may adopt an ordinance to
establish land development regulations, which includes the adoption or amendment of zoning
regulations; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
recommend any zoning regulation amendment to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (1 0) days prior to
the said public hearing to recommend any zoning regulation amendment to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, on August 23, 2021, the required Planning Commission public hearing notice
was posted in public locations as required by State noticing provisions for a meeting to be held on
September 2, 2021, at 7:00; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission made a recommendation for the zoning regulation
amendment in a public meeting held on September 2, 2021, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council
Chamber; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the City Council to
consider the zoning regulation amendment and Planning Commission recommendation in a public
meeting; and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on October 27, 2021, at 7:00 p.m. to
discuss the zoning regulation amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the zoning regulation amendment, which was recommended by the Planning
Commission and documented in City File number Z72021-079;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council as follows:
A. Title 10, Chapter 16, Sections 1 of the Herriman City Code be amended as set forth in

the attached Exhibit A. All other sections and provisions of Title 10 shall be unaffected by this
amendment.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2021-30 shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be published
or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 27" day of October 2021.

HERRIMAN,

ee.

ATTEST:

Exhibit A

The following excerpt from Herriman City Code has been selected to provide context for the
intended amendments. Only the strike-through and underline portions of the text are amended by this
Ordinance. All other regulations contained within Title 10 of the Herriman City Code shall remain

in effect.

10-29-42: SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED OR DETACHED DWELLINGS; STANDARDS:
Any detached or attached single-family dwelling located on an individual lot, except within a mobile
home park or mobile home subdivision, shall meet the off-street parking requirements in chapter 24
of this title; and the following standards in addition to any others required by law, except as provided
in subsection H of this section:. Attached single-family dwellings includes, but is not limited to, two-
family dwellings, three-family dwellings, four-family dwellings, townhomes, or other similar types

of dwelling units

A. Exterior Materials: Except for detached single-family or two-family dwellings, Eexterior
materials for all buildings shall include brick, stucco, stone, or other decorative masonry
products including fiber-cement siding as approved by the Planning Commission. A minimum of
forty percent (40%) of the front exterior and any side or rear viewable from the street shall be
brick or stone. Vinyl and wood siding are not permitted. However, shake shingles may be
permitted as an accent material as approved. All sides of dwellings shall receive equal design
consideration, particularly where they may be readily viewed by pedestrians and motorists, or
from adjacent properties. However, exterior cladding that the construction industry has found
evidence of material defects or hazardous, such_as Asbestos shingles and siding. shall be
prohibited in the construction of all single-family attached or detached dwelling units.

B. Review of Building Colors and Materials: Except for detached single-family or two-family
dwellings, Bbuilding colors and materials shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission at the
time of subdivision approval. A materials board shall be submitted with each subdivision
application.

C. Garages: Dwellings shall include a minimum two-car garage (minimum 24 feet by 22 feet, or

approximate-approved equivalent approved by the Planning Commission).

Parking: The driveway shall be a minimum of twenty-four feet (24') in length.

Minimum Floor Area: The minimum total floor area, finished and unfinished, of any single-

family dwelling shall be twe one thousand four-hundred-2,409) (1,000) square feet, excluding

the garage.

F. Roof Pitch: Except for detached single-family or two-family dwellings, Mmain buildings shall
be constructed with a minimum 5:12 roof pitch.

G. Building Elevations: Building elevations shall vary so that the same house is not built within
three (3) lots or across the street from the same elevation.

H. Deviations and Exemption:

1, The Planning Commission may approve deviations from one or more of the developmental
or architectural standards provided in this section en-the-basis-ef based on a finding that the
proposed architectural style prepesed provides compensating design features.

2. All detached single-family or two-family dwellings within a planned unit development,
master development agreement, or zoning overlay that the property owner requests for an
increase in density or another benefit not otherwise available as a permitted use in the zoning
area or district are not exempt from design standards.

ale


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2021-30
SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND TITLE 10 OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE
TO REFLECT RECENT CHANGES IN STATE CODE FOR SINGLE-FAMILY DESIGN
STANDARDS

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts x
Jared Henderson x
Sherrie Ohrn xX x
Steven Shields xX
Clint Smith x X
TOTALS 5

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 27" day of
October, 2021, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2021-30
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION
This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 27" day
of October, 2021, with a short summary being published on the Utah Public Notice website. I

hereby certify and attest that the foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings
with respect to the ordinance number referenced above.

Signed this 27" day of October, 2021

oy %
oY Por 2,
Qt p a XO

lo
HERRIM AN

, Aho UOhwrs Recorder


