HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2021-31

Z2021-045 - ORDINANCE TO AMEND CHAPTERS 10-16 AND 10-29 OF
HERRIMAN CITY CODE TO REGULATE THE USE OF SHIPPING CONTAINERS
AS ACCESSORY STRUCTURES

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to state law, may adopt an ordinance to
establish land development regulations, which includes the adoption or amendment of zoning text;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
recommend any zoning text amendments to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days prior to
the said public hearing to recommend any zoning text amendments to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, on May 24, 2021, the required Planning Commission public hearing notice was
posted in public locations as required by State noticing provisions for a meeting to be held on June 3,
2021, at 7:00; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission made a recommendation for the zoning text
amendment in a public meeting held on September 16, 2021, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council
Chamber; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the City Council to
consider the zoning text amendment and Planning Commission recommendation in a public meeting:
and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on December 8, 2021, at 7:00 p.m. to
discuss the zoning text amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the zoning text amendment, which was recommended by the Planning Commission
and documented in City File number Z2021-045;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council as follows:

Title 10 of Herriman City Code shall be amended as set forth in the attached Exhibit A. All
other sections and provisions of Title 10 shall be unaffected by this amendment.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2021-31, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be published
or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 8" day of December 2021.

HERRIMAN

ATTEST: ayor David Watts

HERRIMAN
cay
S 1999 ~~


Exhibit A

The following excerpt from Herriman City Code has been selected to provide context for the proposed amendment.
Only the strike-through or underlined portions of the text are amended by this Ordinance. All other regulations
contained within Title 10 Land Development Code shall remain in effect.

Title 10 Land Use Development
Chapter 29 Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations

10-29-53 Reuse of Metal Shipping Container as Accessory Structure

This section intends to limit, except as provided herein, the placement and use of any shipping container
as an accessory building for storage. or as a living unit where residential uses are permitted. The intent of
these limitations is to protect the city's public health, safety. and aesthetic quality.

Placement and use of shipping containers shall be subject to the following limitations:

A. Accessory Use. Metal shipping containers may be allowed as an accessory use for storage or living
space but shall not be used as an accessory dwelling unit.

B. Temporary Use. Except as otherwise provided, metal shipping containers may be allowed in all zones
for temporary use during construction, grading operations, or agricultural operations when utilized
solely to store supplies and equipment used for the construction, grading, or agricultural operations on
that site.

C. Building Permit. A building permit shall be required for the placement and use of a metal shipping
container for any approved land use.

D. Commercial Site Plan Approval. In commercial and manufacturing zones, placement of metal shipping
containers as an accessory use requires conditional use approval from the Planning Commission to
ensure overall compliance with zoning ordinances.

E. Placement Standards. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the placement of metal shipping
containers shall be allowed in all zones as an accessory use subject to the following development
standards:

1. No more than one (1) metal shipping container is allowed on lots less than one (1) acre.

2. No more than two (2) metal shipping containers are allowed on lots one (1) acre or greater but less
than five (5) acres.

3. No more than three (3) metal shipping containers are allowed on lots five (5) acres or greater but
less than ten (10) acres.

4. No more than five (5) metal shipping containers are allowed on lots ten (10) acres or greater.

5. The size of each metal shipping container shall not exceed the following:

a. For all commercial and mixed-use zoned properties, and all agriculturally zoned properties
larger than one acre:

1. 42 feet (length) by 13% feet (width) by 10 feet (height).


b. For all agricultural and residential zoned properties larger or equal to one-half ('4) acre:
1. 30 feet (length) by 13% feet (width) by 10 feet (height).

Cc. For all agricultural and residential zoned properties less than one-half acre (4) but greater
than one-quarter (4) acre:

1. 20 feet (length) by 13% feet (width) by 10 feet (height).
d._ For all agricultural and residential zoned properties less than one-quarter (14) acre:
1. 15 feet (length) by 13% feet (width) by 10 feet (height).

No metal shipping container shall be placed on top of another metal shipping container.

A principal building, dwelling unit, or agricultural operation shall be located on the lot.

Placement shall be to the rear of the principal building or dwelling unit and on the rear half of the

lot unless screened so as to not be visible from the street and finished in a manner that minimizes
visibility from abutting properties.

Except as otherwise provided in this section, the maximum size and minimum setbacks shall be

10.

governed by the designated zone and other provisions of this title.

Extertor treatments of metal shipping containers shall be as follows:

11.

a. For all commercial and mixed-use zoned properties, and agriculturally zoned properties larger
than one acre, the finish material shall be rust-free and painted a neutral earth-tone color or a
color consistent with the principal building or dwelling unit. No commercial advertisement or
graphic shall be visible from an adjacent agricultural or residential land use or district, or from
a public or private street within an agricultural or residential district.

b. For all residentially zoned properties. both the paint color and finish materials of the container
shall match, or be similar to, the main material of the primary structure on all street-facing
sides.

c. For all agriculturally zoned properties less than one (1) acre, both the paint color and finish
materials of the container shall match, or be similar to. the main material of the primary
structure on all street-facing sides except when the structure is used for agricultural uses in
which situation 10-29-53(E)(10)(a) shall apply.

Metal shipping containers shall not be located within an area that includes sensitive lands. natural

12.

hazards, or historical resources.

Metal shipping containers shall be located on a three (3) inch deep layer of gravel contained by a

13.

14.

border to facilitate drainage away from the structure. An alternate system may be approved by the
Building Official.

Metal shipping containers shall be secured from entry by children and the general public when not
attended and provide a means of emergency egress in compliance with applicable building code.

Exit door must allow people to leave the space quickly without using a key, tool, extra force or
special knowledge to unlock the door, and the unlatching of any door must not require more than

one operation.


CHAPTER 16 TABLE OF USES

10-16-1: USES:

Any use showing an empty box for a particular zone, or any use not shown on this table, is not permitted.
See footnotes for qualifying requirements or use limitations.

Legend:

P = Permitted use

| C = Conditional use

| Blank = Not permitted

Uses

Zones

A-.25

R-1-10

~1-15

-1-21

R-1-43

R-2-10

R-2-15

R-M

FR

RC

OP

C-1

C-2

M-1

T-M

MU

MU-2

Shipping
container,
agricultural
use only

me
ro)

Shippin
container,
commercial
use

cv

cv

Cv

eid

Ca

Shipping
container,
living space

C48

C48

C48

C48

ce

C48

[ei

C48

C8

C48

Shipping
container,
storage only

c#

C49

cs

ce

ce

C43

C49

cs

cas

cis

Shipping
container,

temporary
use

ps0

ps0

ps0

ps0

ps0

ps0

ps0

ps0

ps0

pso

pse

ps0

ps0

ps0

ps0

ps0

ps0

ps0

ps0

46. Restricted to bona fide agricultural uses on a minimum of | acre. The applicant shall provide a written

statement to the city describing how the container will only be used for agricultural purposes. Upon

termination of approved use, the shipping container shall be removed from the property within 60

days.

47. Requires site plan approval by Planning Commission.

48. Requires minimum lot area of 10.000 square feet and compatible building materials and colors with

the main building. excluding roofline.

49, Requires minimum lot area of 10,000 square feet and compatible building materials and colors with

the main building when visible from an adjacent street. excluding roofline.

50. Requires site plan approval by City Planner or designee. Temporary use shall be limited to 30 days or

for the duration of a construction project by a bona fide licensed contractor. Upon termination of

approved use, the shipping container shall be removed from the property within 60 days.


Herriman City

ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2021-31

SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND CHAPTERS 10-16 AND 10-29 OF
HERRIMAN CITY CODE TO REGULATE THE USE OF SHIPPING CONTAINERS AS

ACCESSORY STRUCTURES

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts x
Jared Henderson xX xX
Sherrie Ohrn xX x
Steven Shields xX
Clint Smith X

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 8" day of
December, 2021, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2021-31
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION

This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 8" day of
December, 2021, with a short summary being published on the Utah Public Notice website. I
hereby certify and attest that the foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings
with respect to the ordinance number referenced above.

rate
<0° ate

Signed this 8" day of December, 2021

PF in VO
Xe orpor Ue,

He

»stkom, City Recorder

