HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2021-29

Z2021-078 -ORDINANCE TO AMEND CITY CODE TITLE 10 TO COMPLY WITH
STATE CODE FOR INTERNAL ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to Utah State Code, may adopt an ordinance to
establish land development regulations, which includes the adoption or amendment of zoning
regulations; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
recommend any zoning regulation amendment to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days prior to
the said public hearing to recommend any zoning regulation amendment to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, on August 23, 2021, the required Planning Commission public hearing notice
was posted in public locations as required by State noticing provisions for a meeting to be held on
September 2, 2021, at 7:00; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission made a recommendation to approve the zoning
regulation amendment in a public meeting held on September 2, 2021, at 7:00 p.m. in the City
Council Chamber; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the City Council to
consider the zoning regulation amendment and Planning Commission recommendation in a public
meeting; and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on October 27, 2021, at 7:00 p.m. to
discuss the zoning regulation amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the zoning regulation amendment, which was recommended by the Planning
Commission and documented in City File number Z2021-078;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council as follows:

A. Title 10 of Herriman City Code shall be amended as set forth in the attached Exhibit A,
and all other sections and provisions of Title 10 shall remain unaffected by this amendment.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2021-29 shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be published
or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 27" day of October 2021.

HERRIMAN

ATTEST: ayor David Witts

Javad SU LS pon Ny
kif Nostrom, City Recorder N ae % be
\ ES

HERRIMAN
crc

SD. 1999 ,
“4 Ce of Urey }


Exhibit A

The following excerpts from Herriman City Code have been selected to provide context for the intended
amendments. Only the strike-through and underline portions of the text are amended by this Ordinance. All
other regulations contained within Title 10 of the Herriman City Code shall remain in effect.

10-3-6: Definitions, Land Use Categories

B. Residential uses:
INTERNAL ACCESSORY APARTMENT DWELLING UNIT: A habitable living area located within a
detached single-family dwelling which:

1. Is smaller than the main dwelling unit;

2. Has its own kitchen, living and sleeping areas, and sanitation facilities; and

3. Conforms to the requirements of this title.

10-16-1: USES:

Any use showing an empty box for a particular zone or any use not shown on this table is not permitted.
See footnotes for qualifying requirements or use limitations.

Legend:
P = Permitted use C = Conditional use Blank = Not permitted
Uses Zones
Grelelelelelelalajelelolalelal<|s|/5/3
tiacqialegyeyergesyegetie | Fl|rloldadliaod/si/en/e/2
Dwelling |G |G |G |P |P |P |P G
single- P |P |P
family with
internal
{not
detached)
accessory
apartment
dwelling
unit
10-24-12: PARKING SCHEDULE
CHART 10-24 OFF-STREET PARKING SCHEDULE
Uses Minimum Standard Additional Standard
Residential: 3-spaces-_per-dwelling-unit 1 space for each vehicle owned or
Dwelling, single-family with internal 2 car garage plus 2 paved off-street operated from the premises
accessory apartment dwelling unit spaces for each single-family dwelling,
plus one additional off-street space for
each internal accessory dwelling unit


10-29-39: SECOND KITCHEN IN A SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING:

A.

B.

Approval: Approval of a second kitchen within a single-family dwelling unit shall not be an approval of a

second dwelling unit or accessory dwelling unit.

Permitted Use; Requirements: A second kitchen in a single-family residence (dwelling unit) may be

allowed as a permitted use in the zones in which they are listed if all of the following requirements are

met:

1. The residence shall have only one front entrance.

2. The residence shall have only one address.

3. An interior access shall be maintained to all parts of the residence to assure that a secondary unit
or apartment is not created. There shall be no keyed and dead-bolt locks or other manner of limiting
or restricting access from the second kitchen to the remainder of the residence.

4. The residence shall have no more than one electrical meter.

5. The residence shall have no more than one water and one sewer hookup.

6. A second kitchen shall exist only as part of the primary structure and shall not be installed in an
accessory building.

7. Construction of any such kitchen shall meet the standards of the current Censtruction Building
Codes adopted by the City.

Occupancy Limitation: When a second kitchen is approved pursuant to subsection B of this section,

both present and future owners of the premises shall limit the use of the dwelling unit to family

occupancy only and no roomers or boarders shall be permitted. Such limitation shall not apply if the
second kitchen is part of an approved internal accessory apartment dwelling unit.

Inspections: Upon request by the City, the dwelling owner shall allow inspection of the dwelling unit at

reasonable times to determine compliance with this section.

10-29-52: INTERNAL ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT REGULATION:

In all residential and agricultural zones, unless a more restrictive standard has been adopted within this

title, internal accessory dwelling units shall meet the following requirements:

A.

Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to establish requlations that control the use and construction of
internal accessory dwelling units; to encourage individuals to become and remain homeowners by
allowing limited opportunities for rental income: to allow the provision of security or services to owner-
occupants of the dwelling; to provide options for structures designed as single-family dwellings to meet
the needs of owner-occupants at a variety of stages in their life cycle: and to protect the stability of
neighborhoods.

Number of Internal Accessory Dwelling Units per Parcel: An internal accessory dwelling unit (ADU) shall
be allowed only on parcels containing a single-family dwelling with a lot size of 6,000 square feet or
larger. No more than one (1) internal ADU shall be allowed for a lot or parcel which also contains the
single-family dwelling. An internal ADU shall not be allowed on a lot or within a dwelling unit that is part
of an apartment building, dwelling group, or condominium project.

Occupancy: The property owner, which includes titleholders, must occupy either the primary _or
accessory dwelling unit as their permanent and principal residence in order to qualify for an ADU.

1. As long as the owner occupies the main dwelling or the ADU, then the other unit is allowed to be
rented under this ADU provision.

2. The owner is permitted to have a separate seasonal residence, but during the time away from the
permanent residence, the owner is not allowed to rent out their vacant permanent residential unit.
For the purposes of this subsection, “seasonal residence” shall mean living in another location for
up to four (4) months in one (1) calendar vear.

3. The property owner shall conform to the definition of “family” occupancy as described in chapter 3
of this title.


4. Neither the single-family dwelling nor the internal ADU may be used or licensed as a residential
vacation rental.

. Appearance: The appearance of the dwelling shall remain that of a single-family residence and not be

altered with the exception of required egress windows from bedrooms or installation of an outside entrance.

. Outside Entrances: The entrances to the internal ADU and main dwelling shall use existing entrances to

the dwelling if possible. If a separate entrance is required to be installed to one of the units, it shall be

by means of a door located on the side or rear of the building.

. Location: An internal ADU shall be directly adjacent to the livable space of the main dwelling or above

an existing attached garage, although garages are not classified as livable space.

1. “Directly adjacent” means the internal ADU and the livable space of the home shall only be
separated by a shared wall or floor, except when above attached garages.

. Parking: A single-family dwelling with an internal ADU shall have a minimum of four (4) off-street
parking spaces that meet the legal location and requirements for off-street parking for a single-family
dwelling, and one (1) additional off-street parking space in the front or side yard for the internal ADU,
such as a side yard parking slab or widened driveway. When parking for an internal ADU is provided in
the front yard, it shall not extend further in front of the home than the existing garage but shall be placed
to the side of the home. Tandem parking (or parking a vehicle behind another) in the driveway that
leads to legal parking for the main unit may also be the means of providina parking if the tandem
parking does not extend over the property line and the public sidewalk.

1._ If an internal ADU reduces the required number of parking spaces for the residential use, such as
the conversion of an attached garage into an internal ADU, additional parking spaces must be
accommodated to meet the parking requirements of this title.

__ Compliance with Building Codes: The internal ADU shall comply with all applicable Building, Health,

and Fire Codes with special attention for existing buildings given to providing the required emergency
access from bedrooms.


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2021-29

SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND CITY CODE TITLE 10 TO COMPLY
WITH STATE CODE FOR INTERNAL ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts x
Jared Henderson X
Sherrie Ohrn xX x
Steven Shields X
Clint Smith x x
|

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 27" day of
October, 2021, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2021-29
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION

This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 27" day
of October, 2021, with a short summary being published on the Utah Public Notice website. I
hereby certify and attest that the foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings
with respect to the ordinance number referenced above.

orate
S Se
+)

“OT P07. 2
Cott We,
[ 7
Hi RRM AN

i 7999
. “es of Uy

Signed this 27" day of October, 2021


