HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2021-12

AN ORDINANCE OF THE HERRIMAN CITY COUNCIL OF APPROVING AN
AMENDMENT TO TITLE 12 OF THE HERRIMAN CITY CODE

WHEREAS, the Herriman City Council (“Council”) met in regular meeting on April 28,
2021 to consider, among other things, approving an amendment to Title 12 of the Herriman City
Code; and

WHEREAS, the Council is authorized to enact ordinances, codify such ordinances, and
make amendments to such codifications as set forth in Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-707; and

WHEREAS, the Council previously adopted and codified Title 12 of the Herriman City
Code as Flood Damage Prevention Regulations; and

WHEREAS, the Council has considered and discussed certain changes to Title 12 of the
Herriman City Code with regard to Stormwater.

WHEREAS, Council has reviewed the proposed changes to Title 12 and hereby finds
that it is in the best interests of the public to adopt the proposed changes to Title 12 of the
Herriman City Code.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Herriman City Council as follows:

1. An amended Title 12 of the Herriman City Code, attached hereto as Exhibit A, is
hereby adopted.

2. The City Recorder is authorized to publish the updated Title 12 upon passage and
publication of this Ordinance.

This ordinance assigned no. 2021-12, shall take effect immediately upon passage and
acceptance as provided herein.

PASSED AND APPROVED by the Council of Herriman, Utah, this 28th day of April,
2021.

HERRIMAN
atts, Mayor
ATTEST:
Jdckid ast om, MMC |
Ci ¢corde


FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION REGULATIONS

TITLE 12

12-7-010: PURPOSE

CHAPTER 7
STORM SEWER UTILITY

It is the purpose of this chapter to:

A.

B.

Protect, maintain, and enhance the environment of Herriman City.

Establish responsibilities for controlling and managing stormwater runoff.

Protect the public health, safety and the general welfare of Herriman City, its residents, and downstream entities, by controlling
discharges of pollutants to the City’s stormwater system, and to maintain and improve the quality of the receiving waters into
which the stormwater outfalls flow, including, without limitation, lakes, rivers, streams, ponds, wetlands, and groundwater of

the City.

Enable the City to comply with the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System permit (NPDES/UPDES) and applicable
regulations, 40 CFR 122.26 for stormwater discharges.

Exercise the powers granted by Utah law, which enables the City to:

Regulate the planning, location, construction, and operation and maintenance of stormwater facilities in the
municipality, whether or not owned and operated by the municipality;

Adopt any rules and regulations by resolution deemed necessary to accomplish the purposes of this chapter,
including the adoption of a system of fees for services and permits;

Establish standards to regulate the quantity and quality of stormwater discharged and to regulate stormwater
contaminants as may be necessary to protect water quality;

Review and approve plans and plats for stormwater management in proposed subdivisions or commercial
developments;

Issue permits for discharge of stormwater from privately held property into the City stormwater system, or for the
construction, alteration, extension, or repair of stormwater facilities which connect to the City stormwater system;

Suspend or revoke permits when it is determined that the permittee has violated any applicable ordinance,
resolution, or condition of the permit;

Regulate and prohibit discharges into City stormwater facilities which consist of sanitary, industrial, or
commercial sewage or waters that have otherwise been contaminated; and

Expend funds to remediate or mitigate the detrimental effects of contaminated land or other sources of stormwater
contamination.

12-7-020: APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE

This chapter shall apply to all water entering the city stormwater system unless explicitly exempted by the City engineer in writing. The
standards set forth and promulgated herein are intended as minimum standards. This chapter does not intend or imply that compliance
by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination, pollution, or unauthorized discharge of pollutants.

12-7-030: DEFINITIONS

Page | of 12

For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply.

A.

“Best management practices” or “BMPs” are physical, structural, and/or managerial practices that, when used singly or in
combination, prevent or reduce pollution of water, that have been approved by Herriman City and that have been incorporated
by reference into this chapter as if fully set out therein. For purposes of this chapter, the relevant BMPs are more particularly
defined in Salt Lake County “Guidance Document for Stormwater Management.”

“Channel” means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conducts flowing water continuously or
periodically.

“City” means Herriman City, a municipal corporation, and its governing body, employees, and authorized representatives.
“City engineer” means the City engineer of Herriman City.

“City stormwater system” means City-owned storm systems including without limitation gutters, catch basins, grates, pipelines,
and City drainage easements.

“Class 1” means SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL: Means single residential structure designed for a single family.

“Class 2” means MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (TOWNHOMES AND DUPLEXES): Means residential dwellings that
generally connect to adjoining units but where a single family would occupy an area represented by a two-dimensional footprint,
not stacked on multiple levels, and the dwellings are separate pieces of real property.

“Class 3” MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (STACKED HOUSING/CONDOMINIUMS): Means residential dwellings that
are contiguous with other dwellings but where single families live on multiple stories or levels, and the dwellings are separate
pieces of real property.

“Class 4” INSTITUTIONAL/COMMERCIAL/APARTMENTS/INDUSTRIAL: Means all other types of properties such as
commercial and industrial businesses, government buildings, apartment complexes, churches, schools, factories, parks, etc.

“Community water” means any and all rivers, streams, creeks, branches, lakes, reservoirs, ponds, drainage systems, springs,
wetlands, wells and other bodies of surface or subsurface water, natural or artificial, lying within or forming a part of the

boundaries of the City.

“Connection” means any degree of infrastructure that joins, links, fixes, ties into, or otherwise connects directly to any portion
of the City’s public stormwater system.

“Construction Activities” refers to any construction activities that disturb land greater than or equal to one acre, including
projects that are part of a larger common plan of development or sale which collectively disturbs land greater than or equal to

one acre, or otherwise requires a land disturbance permit from the city.

“Contaminant” means any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance or matter which is not naturally occurring
and introduced into the stormwater system.

“Council” means Herriman City Council\

“County” means Salt Lake County

“Customer or Person” means any individual; public or private corporation and its officers; partnership; association; firm;
trustee; executor of an estate; the State or its departments, institutions, bureaus, agencies; County; City; political subdivision;

or any other governmental or legal entity recognized by law.

“Design storm event” means a hypothetical storm event, of a given frequency interval and duration, used in the analysis and
design of a stormwater facility.

“Developed Parcel” means any parcel whose surface has been altered by grading, filling, or construction of any improvement.
“Discharge” means dispose, deposit, spill, pour, inject, seep, dump, leak or place by any means, or that which is disposed,

deposited, spilled, poured, injected, seeped, dumped, leaked, or placed by any means including any direct or indirect entry of
any solid or liquid matter into the municipal separate storm sewer system.

Page 2 of 12

Uz.

V.

W.

AA.

BB.

CC.

DD

EE.

FF.

GG.

HH.

Il.

JJ.

KK.

“Easement” means an acquired privilege or right of use or enjoyment that a person, party, firm, corporation, municipality or
other legal entity has in the land of another.

“Equivalent Residential Unit (ERC)” means a unit equal to the square footage of impervious surface area. This is based on an
average single-family residential parcel, which has an impervious surface area of four thousand (4,000) square feet.

“Erosion” means the removal of soil particles by the action of water, wind, ice or other geological agents, whether naturally
occurring or acting in conjunction with or promoted by anthropogenic activities or effects.

“Erosion and sediment control plan” means a written plan (including drawings or other graphic representations) that is designed
to minimize erosion and sediment runoff at a site during construction activities.

“General construction stormwater permit” means permit required by the Utah Department of Environmental Quality, Division
of Water Quality.

“Herriman City Stormwater Design Standards Manual” means current Herriman City stormwater standards and regulations as
adopted by the City.

“Herriman City Stormwater Utility Policy Manual” means policies and procedures for the administration of the user fees

“Hot spot” (“priority area”) means an area where land use or activities generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations
of pollutants in excess of those typically found in stormwater.

“Illicit connections” means illegal and/or unauthorized connections to the municipal separate stormwater system whether or
not such connections result in discharges into that system.

“Illicit discharge” means any discharge to the municipal separate storm sewer system that is not composed entirely of
stormwater and not specifically exempted under Herriman City Code 12.7.080(B).

.“Impervious surface” means a parcel's hard surface area that causes water to run off its surface in quantities or speeds greater

than under natural conditions and discharge directly into the City's storm sewer system. Some examples of impervious surfaces
are rooftops, concrete or asphalt paving, walkways, patios, driveways, parking lots or storage areas, and gravel that has been
subject to surface traffic, including compacted gravel surfaces.

“Irrigation ditches” means gravity irrigation ditches used by irrigation shareowners having a right of water passageway by
ROW, easement or prescription.

“Land disturbance permit” means Herriman City land disturbance permit as adopted by the City.

“Land disturbing activity” means any activity on property that results in a change in the existing soil cover (both vegetative
and nonvegetative) and/or the existing soil topography. Land disturbing activities include, but are not limited to, development,
redevelopment, demolition, construction, reconstruction, clearing, grading, filling, and excavation.

“Maintenance” means any activity that is necessary to keep a stormwater facility in good working order so as to function as
designed. Maintenance shall include complete reconstruction of a stormwater facility if reconstruction is needed in order to
restore the facility to its original operational design parameters. Maintenance shall also include the correction of any problem
on the site property that may directly impair the functions of the stormwater facility.

“Maintenance agreement” means a document recorded in the land records that acts as a property deed restriction, and which
provides for long-term maintenance of stormwater management practices.

“Manage permit” means the implementation and maintenance of Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) BMPs, in
accordance with ordinance and state regulations. Manage to the level that will effectively minimize the potential for polluted
discharges and prevent the effects of construction nuisances to the public. Also, carry the responsibility of the project site and
the effects of persons and equipment that may enter the construction envelope, such as but not limited to: employees,
contractors, suppliers, utility companies, visitors, and trespassers.

“Mitigation” means on-site facilities or practices which reduce stormwater quantity or improve stormwater quality

Page 3 of 12

LL. “Municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4)” (“municipal separate stormwater system”) means the conveyances owned or
operated by the municipality for the collection and transportation of stormwater, including the roads and streets and their
drainage systems, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels, and storm drains.

MM. “National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit” or “NPDES permit” means a permit issued pursuant to 33
U.S.C. 1342.

NN. “N.O.I. exempt project” means a project that does not warrant compliance with UCGP but does justify municipal oversight per
MS4 regulation under the “Construction Site Stormwater Runoff Control” section.

OO. “Notice of termination (N.O.T.)” means a written document which indicates the requirements of the N.O.I. or land disturbance
permit has been completed. Issuance of this document releases the permittee of further obligation for the management of the
construction site. An N.O.T. will be issued by both the City and the state of Utah.

PP. “Notice of violation (N.O.V.)” means written notice issued by the City engineer, public works director, or their designee
whenever a person or entity is in noncompliance with this chapter; the designee will order compliance by written notice of
violation to the responsible person or registered agent or entity. Requirements in this notice are at the discretion of the
representative, and may include monitoring, payment to cover costs relating to the noncompliance, and the implementation of
best management practices.

QQ. “Off-site facility” means a structural BMP located outside the subject property boundary described in the permit application
for land development activity.

RR. “On-site facility” means a structural BMP located within the subject property boundary described in the permit application for
land development activity.

SS. “Parcel” means the smallest, separately segregated unit of land having an owner. A parcel has boundaries and surface area, and
is documented with a property number by the County

TT. “Peak flow” means the maximum instantaneous rate of flow of water at a particular point resulting from a storm event.

UU. “Person” means any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual, firm, or association and any municipal or
private corporation organized or existing under the laws of this or any other state or country.

VV.“Preexisting conditions” means conditions of property in its native state or changed under approval by the City or changed
property that is grandfathered.

Www. Priority Area. See “Hot spot.”

XX. “Property owner” means land owner of property within the boundaries of the City.

YY.“Public Works Director” means the Public Works Director of Herriman City

ZZ. “Record drawings” means drawings depicting conditions as they were constructed.

AAA. “Runoff” means that portion of the precipitation on a drainage area that is discharged from the area into the municipal

separate stormwater system. Runoff: water produced by storms, surface drainage, snow and ice melt, and other water handled
by the storm sewer drainage system.

BBB. “Sediment” means solid material, both mineral and organic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been
moved from its site of origin by air, water, gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth’s surface either above or below sea
level.

CCC. “Sedimentation” means soil particles suspended in stormwater that can settle in streambeds and disrupt the natural

flow of the stream.
DDD. “Single-family residential parcel” means any parcel of land containing a single-family dwelling unit.

EEE. “Soils report” means a study of soils on a subject property with the primary purpose of characterizing and describing
the soils to qualify as a valid soils report acceptable to the City. The report shall be prepared by a qualified soils engineer, who

Page 4 of 12

shall be directly involved in the soil characterization either by performing the investigation or by directly supervising

employees.

FFF. “Stabilization” means providing adequate measures, vegetative and/or structural, that will prevent erosion from
occurring.

GGG. “Storm sewer drainage system” means all man-made storm sewer facilities and conveyances, and natural stormwater

systems owned or maintained by the City that store, control, trat, and/or convey stormwater

HHH. “Storm sewer facilities” means any facility, improvement, development, or property made for controlling stormwater
quantity and quality

Ill. “Stormwater” means stormwater runoff, snow melt runoff, surface runoff, street waters related to street maintenance,
infiltration and drainage.

JiJ. “Stormwater management” means the programs to maintain quality and quantity of stormwater runoff to pre-development
levels.

KKK. “Stormwater management facilities system” means the drainage structures, conduits, ditches, combined sewers,
sewers, and all device appurtenances by means of which stormwater is collected, transported, pumped, treated or disposed of.

LLL. “Stormwater management plan” means the set of drawings and other documents that comprise all the information and
specifications for the programs, drainage systems, structures, BMPs, concepts and techniques intended to maintain or restore
quality and quantity of stormwater runoff to pre-development levels.

MMM. “Stormwater master plan” means current City stormwater master plan as adopted by the City.
NNN. “Stormwater runoff” means flow on the surface of the ground, resulting from precipitation.
ooo. “Stormwater Utility or Utility” means the utility created by this chapter, which operates, maintains, regulates, and

improves storm sewer facilities and programs within Herriman City.
PPP. “Structural BMPs” means devices that are constructed to provide control of stormwater runoff.

QQQ. “Surface water” includes waters upon the surface of the earth in bounds created naturally or artificially including, but
not limited to, streams, other watercourses, lakes and reservoirs.

RRR. “Uncontaminated Discharge” means a discharge that does not cause or contribute to an exceedance of applicable water
quality standards.

SSS. “Undeveloped Parcel” means any parcel that has not been altered by grading, filling, or construction”

TTT. “UPDES” means Utah Pollution Discharge Elimination System which is the state/national program for issuing,
modifying, revoking and reissuing, terminating, monitoring and enforcing permits, and imposing and enforcing pretreatment
requirements, under Sections 307, 318, 402, and 405 of the Clean Water Act.

UUU. “User Fee” means the fee charged to use the Storm Drainage System and is imposed by this chapter

VVV. “Watercourse” means a permanent or intermittent stream or other body of water, either natural or manmade, which
gathers or carries surface water.

www. “Watershed” means all the land area that contributes runoff to a particular point along a waterway.
12-7-040 RESPONSIBILITIY OF ADMINISTRATION:

A. The City engineer or their designee shall administer, implement, and enforce in all matters pertaining to stormwater matters in
construction, illicit discharges, and the stormwater management program.

B. The Public Works Director or their designee shall administer, implement, and enforce in all matters pertaining to existing public
storm drain infrastructure and City owned or maintained storm drain.

Page 5 of 12

Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the City staff may be delegated by the City engineer or Public Works Director to
persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the City. This chapter shall not be construed to relieve
any person from responsibility for damage to other persons or property, nor impose upon the City, its officers, agents or
employees, any liability for damage to other persons or property.

12-7-050 STORMWATER UTILITY CREATED:

A.

B.

Creation: There is hereby created and established a storm sewer utility operated by the City that includes a user fee rate structure.

Enterprise Fund: There is hereby established a Storm Sewer Utility Enterprise Fund to handle all income, expenses, and other
financial transactions related to the storm sewer utility. All fees collected with respect to the storm sewer utility shall be
deposited in the Storm Sewer Utility Enterprise Fund. Money in the Storm Sewer Utility Enterprise Fund shall not be
commingled with other City funds and may be transferred to other City funds as allowed by the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act
for Utah Cities.

12-7-060 OWNERSHIP OF CITY STORMWATER FACILITIES AND ASSETS:

All of the City's storm drain facilities and structures are hereby made a part of the stormwater utility. Governmentally owned streets and
storm drain facilities operated and maintained by, or for, the state or county shall not be deemed City storm drain facilities. Streets and
storm drain facilities operated and maintained by a private entity shall not be deemed City storm drain facilities.

12-7-070 SYSTEM OF RATES AND CHARGES:

A.

D.

E.

Imposed: All owners of impervious surfaces within the City which contribute runoff water to the storm sewer system or who
otherwise use or benefit from the storm sewer system or the stormwater utility will be responsible for paying the stormwater
utility user fee as set forth in this chapter.

Amount of User Fee: Per the current adopted fee schedule.
Calculation:

1. Class 1: Single family residential parcel contributes approximately the same amount of stormwater runoff;
therefore, each Class 1: single family residential parcel shall pay a base rate equal to one ERU.

2. Class 2: multi-family residential (townhomes and duplexes) contributes approximately the same amount of
stormwater runoff, therefore, each Class 2: multi-family residential (townhomes and duplexes) parcel shall pay a
base rate equal to 0.7 ERU.

3. Class 3: multi-family residential (stacked housing/condominium) contributes approximately the same amount of
stormwater runoff; therefore, each Class 3: multi-family residential (stacked housing/condominium) parcel shall
pay a base rate equal to 0.6 ERU.

4. Class 4: institutional/commercial/apartments/industrial contributes varied amounts of stormwater runoff;
therefore, each Class 4: institutional/commercial/apartments/industrial each parcels (except undeveloped parcels)
shall pay a multiple of this base rate, expressed in ERUs, according to the measured impervious area on the parcel.
The resulting ERUs are calculated by dividing the total square feet of impervious area of the parcel by four
thousand (4,000).

User Fee Per ERU: Per the current adopted fee schedule.
Credits: A user fee credit shall be available for Class 4: institutional/commercial/apartments/industrial customers that:

1. Execute and record a Long-Term Stormwater Management Agreement between the City and the customer exceed
the City's standards for reducing the amount of stormwater discharged from their parcel,

2. Improve the quality of stormwater runoff based on implementing source or treatment controls which reduce or
eliminate pollutants from the parcel's stormwater runoff, and/or

3. Implement onsite activities that can be shown to reduce the City's costs to provide the storm sewer utility services.
Provided, however, if this chapter is amended or the City standards are changed, then only those parcels that then
satisfy the standards will be eligible for the service charge credit. Reducing the amount of stormwater discharge

Page 6 of 12

generally means holding runoff for a period of time and then releasing it at a controlled rate to the stormwater
sewer system ("detention") or holding water until it evaporates or infiltrates into the ground water ("retention").
Improving quality generally means improving the quality of stormwater runoff based on implementation of source
or treatment controls (Best Management Practices) which reduce or eliminate pollutants from the stormwater
runoff.

Policies. The City hereby adopt the Herriman Stormwater Utility Policy Manual to assist in applying, administering, and
interpreting the user fee credit and other provisions related to the storm sewer utility.

Appeals. Any person or entity who is aggrieved by the provision of this chapter or the application and calculation of the user
fee charge to their property may appeal to the City engineer. The appeal shall be in writing, shall state all facts supporting the
appeal, and shall be made within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the bill or event giving rise to the appeal. The City engineer
shall issue a written decision within thirty (30) days of receipt of the complete appeal. Appeals of the City engineer's decision
may be made to an Appeal Authority, in writing within twenty (20) days of the date of City engineer's decision. The Appeal
Authority may elect to hold a hearing on the appeal. The Appeal Authority's decision shal! be final and conclusive.

Billing and Collection: The City shall include the user fee on the monthly water bill for all residences and commercial
properties that are billed by the City for water service. The City shall bill the user fee to all other residential units or commercial
property that are not billed by the City for water service, unless the service fee is billed pursuant to an agreement in which case
it shall be billed pursuant to the agreement. (Ord. 2019-20, 6-26-2019, eff. 8-1-2019)

12-7-080 ILLICIT DISCHARGES:

A. Application: This section shall apply to all water generated on developed and undeveloped land entering the City’s separate

B.

storm sewer system.
Prohibition of Illicit Discharges: No person shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the City's stormwater system any
discharge that is not composed entirely of uncontaminated stormwater. The commencement, conduct or continuance of any
non-stormwater discharge to the City's stormwater system is prohibited. Any person found in violation of this ordinance shall
be required to immediately cease, remove, and remediate such improper discharges except as described as follows:
1. Uncontaminated discharges from the following sources:

a. Water line flushing or other potable water sources;

b. Landscape irrigation or lawn watering with potable water;

c. Diverted stream flows;

d. Rising ground water;

e. Ground water infiltration to storm drains;

f. Pumped ground water;

g. Foundation or footing drains;

h. Crawl space pumps;

i. Air conditioning condensation;

j. Springs;

k. Noncommercial washing of vehicles;

|. Natural riparian habitat or wetland flows;

m. Firefighting activities;

n.  Trrigation water;

Page 7 of 12

o. Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
p. Residual street wash water;
q. Dechlorinated water reservoir discharges; and
r. Any other uncontaminated water source.
2. Discharges specified in writing by the division as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
3. Dye testing is an allowable discharge if the division has so specified in writing.
C. Prohibition of Illicit Connections:

1. Prohibited: The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of illicit connections to the City's
stormwater system is prohibited.

2. Application: This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit connections made in the past,
regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time
of connection.

D. Reduction Of Stormwater Pollutants By The Use Of Best Management Practices: Any person responsible for a property or
premises, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at the person's expense, the
BMPs necessary to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the City's stormwater system. Compliance with all terms and
conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial activity, to the extent
practicable, shall be deemed in compliance with the provisions of this section.

E. Notification Of Spills: Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible for a facility or operation,
or responsible for emergency response for a facility or operation, has information of any known or suspected release of materials
which are resulting in, or may result in, illicit discharges or pollutants discharging into the City's stormwater system, the person
shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release
of hazardous materials the person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence via emergency
dispatch services. In the event of a release of nonhazardous materials, the person shall notify the division in person or by
telephone or facsimile no later than the next business day. Notifications in person or by telephone shall be confirmed by written
notice addressed and mailed to the division within three (3) business days of the in person or telephone notice. If the discharge
of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment
shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be
retained for at least thirty (30) years.

12-7-090 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
A. Adoption of Standards: Stormwater facilities design standards are adopted by reference for new development and
redevelopment. All stormwater infrastructure shall be completed in accordance with the following
1. Stormwater Ordinance
2. Land Development Code
3. Herriman City Development Standards and Specifications
4. Jordan Valley Municipalities Permit (UTS000001) where required

5. Utah General Construction Permit (Permit UTRC00000) where required

B. Conflicting Standards: Whenever there is a conflict between any standard contained in this chapter, the strictest standard shall
prevail.

12-7-100 CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER:

All construction activities within the City require permits, depending on construction type and size of construction activities, for the
purpose of preserving surface water quality. The specific permits required for performing construction activities are detailed in Herriman

Page 8 of 12

City’s Development Standards. The City has the right to require these permits to be approved prior to allowing construction activities
to commence.

12-7-110 LONG TERM STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:

A,

Agreement Required: All property having a private stormwater system or privately maintained low impact development (LID)
post construction BMPs are required to have the property owner enter into an agreement with the City that outlines the
responsibilities of the owner for long term stormwater management. This agreement shall be recorded with the Salt Lake
County Recorder’s office and will be binding on future owners.

1. Privately Maintained Residential Subdivisions: For residential subdivisions with private stormwater systems or
infrastructure, it shall be the responsibility of the HOA to ensure the long-term maintenance of all privately owned
structural and nonstructural postconstruction BMPs be continued after construction.

2. Residential Lots: For residential subdivisions with public stormwater systems it shall be the responsibility of the
property owner to manage all stormwater on site.

3, Commercial and Industrial Lots: For all commercial and industrial lots with private stormwater systems or
infrastructure, it shall be the responsibility of the lot owner to ensure the long term maintenance of privately
owned structural and nonstructural postconstruction BMPs be continued after construction.

Annual Post Construction BMP Certification: It shall be a condition of continued operation and use of any new or existing
agreement permitting a private connection to the City’s stormwater system that annual certifications be provided to the City of
privately owned post construction BMPs including, but not limited to, inspection, maintenance, repair, and cleaning sufficient
to maintain the integrity of the stormwater system. Each BMP shall be cleaned a minimum of once per year or more frequently
as required. If cleaning does not occur, the City may perform the cleaning on behalf of the responsible person and the
responsible person shall reimburse the City actual costs of such performance. Inspection reports shall be maintained by the
owner for at least five (5) years.

City Inspection: The City engineer, City public works director, or their designee(s) will inspect privately owned post
construction BMPs at least once every five years and as conditions arise to ensure compliance with privately owned BMP
Certification defined above.
Requirements: Maintenance and repair requirements may include, but not be limited to the following:

1. Removal of silt, litter, and other debris from all catch basins, inlets, and drainage pipes;

2. Grass cutting and vegetation removal; and

3. Replacement of landscape vegetation.
Abatement: In the event of failure to adequately maintain temporary or permanent BMPs, the responsible party shall be liable
to the City for all costs and expenses that may be incurred or expended by the City in bringing the property into compliance
with the stormwater management regulations. The responsible person shall further be liable to the City for any collection costs,
including legal fees, incurred by the City. The City may recover costs through appropriate legal actions.
Right to Inspect: City personnel are authorized to enter upon any real property at reasonable times in order to inspect the

stormwater facilities, maintenance and preservation plans, and owner annual inspection records to ensure the owner is in
compliance with this section.

12-7-120 EXISTING STORMWATER REQUIREMENTS:

A.

Requirements for all existing locations and developments: The following requirements shall apply to all locations and
development at which land disturbance activities have occurred:

1. Denuded areas must be vegetated or covered under the standards and guidelines specified in the BMP manual and
on a schedule acceptable to the City engineer.

2. Cuts and slopes must be properly covered with appropriate vegetation and/or retaining walls constructed.

Page 9 of 12

B.

3. Drainageways shall be properly covered in vegetation or secured with riprap, channel lining, etc., to prevent
erosion.

4. Trash, junk, rubbish, etc, shall be cleared from drainageways.

5. Stormwater runoff shall be controlled to the extent reasonable to prevent pollution of local waters. Such control
measures shall include those methods and measures identified in this chapter.

Requirements for Existing Problem Locations: The City engineer or their designee shall notify, in writing, the owners of
existing locations and developments of specific drainage, erosion or sediment problems affecting such locations and
developments, and the specific actions required to correct those problems. The notice shall also specify a reasonable time for
compliance.

Inspection of Existing Facilities: The City engineer, City public works director, or their designee may, to the extent authorized
by state and federal law, establish inspection programs to verify that all stormwater management facilities, including those built
before as well as after the adoption of this chapter, are functioning within design limits. These inspection programs may be
established on any reasonable basis, including, but not limited to: routine inspections; random inspections; inspections based
upon complaints or other notice of possible violations; inspection of drainage basins or areas identified as higher than typical
sources of sediment or other contaminants or pollutants; inspections of businesses or industries of a type associated with higher
than usual discharges of contaminants or pollutants or with discharges of a type which are more likely than the typical discharge
to cause violations of the municipality's UPDES stormwater permit; and joint inspections with other agencies inspecting under
environmental or safety laws. Inspections may include, but are not limited to: reviewing maintenance and repair records;
sampling discharges, surface water, groundwater, and material or water in drainage control facilities; and evaluating the
condition of drainage control facilities and other BMPs.

Corrections of Problems Subject to Appeal: Corrective measures imposed by the City engineer, public works director, or their
designee under this section are subject to appeal under section 12-7-140 of this chapter.

12-7-130 ENFORCEMENT:

A.

Enforcement Provisions: This chapter may be enforced through the provisions of this code or by filing civil or criminal actions
in a court having jurisdiction over the violation as provided by law. The City has sole discretion to decide whether to file a civil
or criminal case for a violation. The City may file both, or one or the other. The possibility of an administrative remedy pursuant
to this chapter shall in no way interfere with the City's right to prosecute violations of this chapter as criminal offenses. The
City may use any of the remedies available under the law in both civil and criminal prosecution. If the City chooses to file both
civil and criminal charges for the same violation, no civil penalties may be assessed, but all other remedies shall be available.

Enforcement Authority: The City engineer, City public works director or their designee shall have the authority to issue notices
of violation, stop work orders, citations, and to pursue the civil penalties provided in this section.

Stop Work Order; Revocation Of Permit: In the event any person or any holder of a state stormwater permit for construction
activities, Herriman City land disturbance permit, Herriman City building permit, or other City issued permit violates the terms
of the permit, any provision of this development in such a manner as to materially adversely affect the health, welfare, or safety
of persons chapter, or implements site residing or working in the neighborhood or development site or injurious to property or
improvements in the neighborhood, the City engineer, public works director, or their designee may issue a stop work order
such that no further work on the development shall be performed or approved, until otherwise authorized by the City engineer,
public works director, or their designee.

Violation And Penalties: In addition to subsections A and B of this section, the City may avail itself of any of the following
nonexclusive remedies to enforce the provisions of this chapter:

1. Notice and Order: Whenever a person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter,
the City engineer, City public works director, or their designee may order compliance by written notice of
violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require, without limitation:

a. The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;

b. The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;

c. That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and desist;

Page 10 of 12

d. The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or contamination hazards and the restoration of
any affected property;

e. Payment ofa fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
f. The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs; and

g. The immediate removal of mud, dirt, or debris left by any vehicle on a street that drains into the
stormwater system.

2. Nuisance Abatement: The violation of subsection D.1. of this section may also be declared and treated as a
nuisance and enforced by City inspectors or code enforcement officers. Each day of violation shall constitute a
separate offense.

3. Criminal Penalties: Any person knowingly, recklessly, or intentionally violating this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of an Infraction and each day during which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is
committed, continued, or permitted, shall constitute a separate offense. City employees in the performance of
their assigned duties and responsibilities shall be exempted from any personal criminal penalty violation.

4. Responsibility: For the purpose of this chapter, the following persons or entities shall be considered responsible
for leaving mud, dirt, or debris on a street within the City:

a. The driver of the vehicle leaving the mud, dirt, or debris; and
b. The general contractor or owner in charge of the job site from which the mud, dirt, or debris comes.
5. Other Penalties and Remedies:

a. Violators of this chapter may also be subject to prosecution, fines and penalties from the state of Utah
and the United States EPA.

b. In addition to other remedies for a violation of this chapter, the City shall have the right to install and
maintain appropriate erosion and sediment control measures on any site which is required to have such
measures in the event that construction activity is commenced or continued without such measures
having been installed as required by this chapter. The City shall have the right to have such measures
installed or maintained by City personnel or to hire a private contractor to perform such work and the
contractor and the property owner shall be liable for any and all expenses related to performing such
work plus a twenty five percent (25%) penalty charge. The City may assess the charges against the
security posted by the contractor or property owner.

6. Failure to Enter Into or Execute Maintenance Agreement:

a. Costs Incurred For Inspection And Maintenance Costs: If a property owner fails or refuses to enter into
a maintenance agreement with the City, the City engineer, City public works director, or their designee
may inspect and correct violations of the design standards or maintenance needs by performing all
necessary work to place the facility in proper working condition or to hire a private contractor to perform
such work. The cost of any action by the City engineer, City public works director, or their representative
under this section shall be charged to the responsible party who shall be liable for any and all expenses
related to performing such work plus a twenty five percent (25%) penalty charge.

b. Permit Denial For New Development: Owners of a proposed development that are to be served by a
private stormwater system are required to enter into a maintenance agreement with the City. Property
owners may not obtain a City land disturbance permit or building permit until the agreement is executed.

12-7-140 APPEALS:

Any person or entity that believes that any provision of this chapter was interpreted or applied erroneously may appeal to the City
engineer. The appeal shall be in writing, state any facts supporting the appeal, and be made within ten (10) working days of the decision
or action being appealed. The City engineer may elect to hold a hearing on the appeal. The City engineer shall decide the appeal within
ten (10) working days of when the appeal is filed. If the person or entity is not satisfied with the decision, a further appeal may be made

Page 11 of 12

to the City manager. The appeal to the City manager shall follow the same procedure as the appeal to the City engineer. The City
manager's decision shall be final and binding on all parties.

12-7-150 SEVERABILITY:

If any portion of this chapter is determined to be, or is rendered, illegal, invalid, or superseded by other lawful authority, including any
State or Federal, legislative, regulatory, or administrative authority having jurisdiction thereof, or determined to be unconstitutional,
illegal, or invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such section shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision,
and such determination shall have no effect on the validity of any other section.

Page 12 of 12

Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2021-12

SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING AN AMENDMENT TO THE STORM
WATER ORDINANCE

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts x
Jared Henderson x
Sherrie Ohrn xX
Steven Shields x xX
Clint Smith xX x

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 28" day of
April, 2021, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2021-12
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION

This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 28" day
of April, 2021, with a short summary being published on the Utah Public Notice website. I
hereby certify and attest that the foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings
with respect to the ordinance number referenced above.

Signed this 28" day of April, 2021

ity Recorder


