HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2021-01

AN ORDINANCE OF THE HERRIMAN CITY COUNCIL ADOPTING AN
AMENDMENT TO HERRIMAN CITY CODE TITLE 8, CHAPTER 5
REGARDING SEWAGE DISPOSAL

WHEREAS, the Herriman City Council (the “Council”) met in regular meeting on
January 13, 2021, to consider, among other things, adopting an amendment to Title 8, Chapter 5
of the Herriman City Code with regard to sewage disposal standards; and

WHEREAS, Herriman City (“City”) may construct, maintain, and operate works for
sewer collection and treatment and may authorize the construction, maintenance, and operation
of the same by others in order to maintain the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens; and

WHEREAS, the South Valley Sewer District (“District”) provides those services within
the City; and

WHEREAS, the City desires amend the City Code pertaining to sewer service at the
request of the District and in order to comply with certain federal and state regulations with
regard to sewage disposal; and

WHEREAS, the Council finds that amending the City Code as proposed in the attached
Exhibit A, is in the best interest of the City and its residents.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Herriman City Council as follows:
1. Adoption of Amended Title 8, Chapter 5 Related to Sewer Service. The City

Council hereby adopts amendments to Title 8, Chapter 5 of the Herriman City Code as more
particularly set forth in Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

2. Deletion. All references to APPENDIX A, Prohibited Substances, in Title 8, Chapter
5 of the Herriman City Code are hereby deleted in their entirety.

3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon recording
in the Office of the City Recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED by the Council this 13" day of January, 2021.

[signatures on following page]

ATTEST

HERRIMAN

KLE

vid Watts, Mayor

HERRIMAN

cury—

Exhibit A

CHAPTER 5 —- SEWAGE DISPOSAL

SECTION:

8-5-1: Purposes

8-5-2: Definitions

8-5-3: Nonlimitation Of Powers

8-5-4: Wastewater Facilities Required

8-5-5: Interference With Public Sanitary Facilities And Operations
8-5-6: Severability

8-5-7: Penalty

8-5-1: PURPOSES:

Sanitary sewer facilities and services to residents of the city are provided through the district. The district provides
sewage treatment through JBWRF and/or SVWRF. In order to preserve and promote the health, safety, and welfare
of its residents, and in cooperation with the district, the city has determined that regulation of sewage disposal within
and by the city is necessary and desirable., It is also in the public interest that the city participate in achieving a
degree of uniformity in areas served by the JBWRF and the SVWRF and to enable those facilities to comply with
applicable state and federal laws. (Ord. 13-32, 9-26-2013)

8-5-2: DEFINITIONS:

For purposes of this chapter and unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the following words shall have
the following meanings:

APPENDIX-A:-The-set-oF material appended. or-intended-to-be-appendedto-this-chapter,whether-or-not-actually
thus-appended-and-whieh-lists-substances,the-discharge-of which-is-prohibited hereinafter,

BUILDING PERMIT: Any permit issued by the city.

CESSPOOL: A pit or hole in the ground used for final sewage disposal.

CITY: Herriman City, a municipal corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state of Utah.

DISCHARGE: To cause a substance to enter the sewer system by any means, whether directly or indirectly.

DISTRICT: South Valley sewer district, an improvement district organized and existing pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated title 17B, chapter 2a, part 4, as amended.

FINAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL: The depositing of sewage in the earth, in water, or elsewhere, under circumstances
which, in time, cause oxidation, together with dissipation or absorption of the sewage.

INDUSTRIAL USER: Any user of the sewer system that discharges wastewater from commercial and/or industrial
processes.

JBWRF: Jordan Basin water reclamation facility, a sewage treatment facility owned and operated by the district.

OCCUPANT: Any person in possession of the property mentioned, either by claim or right, or with the consent or
acquiescence of the owner of such property.

ORDINARY DOMESTIC SEWAGE: Sewage of the type and contents commonly discharged from homes, as
distinguished from businesses or industries.

OUTHOUSE: A building or other structure located over a cesspool.

OWNER: Any person holding or claiming title, legal or equitable, to the property mentioned, whether alone or in
conjunction with others.

PERSON: Includes any natural person and any corporation or other separate legal entity, as well as the employer of
any other person acting within the scope of his employment, the principal of any person who is an agent with respect
to sewer matters, or the contractor of any person entering into a contract with respect to sewer matters.

PRIVY VAULT: A structure for containing sewage prior to final sewage disposal, unless such structure is located in
a vehicle.

Bey) Reais, Any Se ae or r described as S prompted in appendix—_A,attached-to—the

SVWRF: South Valley water reclamation facility, an interlocal entity created to treat sewage delivered to it by the
district and the facility's other member entities.

SEPTIC TANK: Includes any means of final sewage disposal which is located principally underground, but does not
include the public sewer system.

SEWAGE: Liquid or waterborne waste.

SEWER SYSTEM: The facilities owned or used by the district for collecting, transmitting, treating, and disposing of
sewage, whether located in or out of the city.

SLUDGE:
A. The accumulated solids slurry separated from liquids, such as water or wastewater during processing; or
B. Deposits on bottoms of streams or other bodies of water; or
C. The precipitate resulting from chemical treatment, coagulation, or sedimentation of water or wastewater.

SUBSTANCE: Any physical matter, including any solid, liquid or gas whatsoever.

SURFACE WATER: Any water running, standing or found on or within five inches (5") of the surface of the
ground.

TREATMENT: The processes employed by the district and/or the SVWRF whereby sewage is rendered less
harmful or objectionable and/or less of a health hazard.

TREATMENT PLANT: The JBWRF and SVWRF treatment facilities used for treatment. (Ord. 13-32, 9-26-2013)

8-5-3: NONLIMITATION OF POWERS:

Nothing in this chapter is intended to restrict or limit the extent or exercise of any power conferred on the district or
the SVWREF by the laws of the state. In delegating certain regulatory authority to the district or the SVWRF, the city
does not affect any authority the district or the SVWRF may have independent of the city to regulate the same or
similar matters, except as may be agreed by the city and the district in a written interlocal cooperation agreement.
(Ord. 13-32, 9-26-2013)

8-5-4: WASTEWATER FACILITIES REQUIRED:
A. Mandatory Connection:

1. Mandatory: The owner or occupant of real property on which a building has been or is being
constructed shall connect such building to the sewer system within sixty (60) days after receiving
written notice from the district that facilities of the sewer system are available for connection to
the building, if any part of such facilities is situated within three hundred feet (300') of any
property line of such real property.

2. Subsequent Use Of Private Systems: If connection to the sewer system is required pursuant to
subsection A1 of this section, the owner or occupant thereby required to connect shall immediately
plug any septic tank or privy vault, remove any outhouse, fill with earth any cesspool located on
his property, and make no further use of those or any other privately owned facilities for final
sewage disposal. Any cesspool, outhouse or unplugged septic tank or privy vault on property
required to be connected to the sewer system is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.

3. Construction Of Private System: No person shall construct or cause to be constructed a septic tank
or other privately owned means of final sewage disposal on property required to be connected to
the sewer system by subsection Al of this section.

4. Building Permit Approval: No newly constructed building required to be connected by subsection
A1 of this section shall be issued a building permit approved for human occupancy if such
building is not connected to the sewer system.

5. Conditions: Nothing in this chapter as adopted shall be construed as creating any obligation on the
part of the district to connect any property to the sewer system or retain any connection to the
sewer system. The district may impose reasonable conditions and requirements for sewer
connection without affecting the obligation of a private person to either connect to the sewer
system, discontinue use of a private system, or otherwise comply with this section.

B. Subdivisions And Other Developments: No subdivision plat, planned unit development, industrial park or
commercial development shall be approved or recommended by the planning commission, nor shall a
building permit or certificate of occupancy be issued for any lot or part thereof or for the whole thereof,
unless the city shall have first received a signed document from the district approving the sewer aspects of
the proposed development. (Ord. 13-32, 9-26-2013)

8-5-5: INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC SANITARY FACILITIES AND OPERATIONS:

Damage: No person shall intentionally or negligently cause any damage to the sewer system.

Manholes: No person shall open a manhole of the sewer system without first receiving authorization to do
so from the district.

Runoff: No owner or occupant shall permit a condition to exist on the owner's or occupant's property
whereby surface water, storm drainage, cooling water, or groundwater is discharged into the sewer system,
nor shall any person install or create such a condition.

Pretreatment And Discharge Permit Requirements: Those persons required to pretreat wastewater in order
to comply with federal pretreatment standards, the district's and/or SVWRF's pretreatment rules and
regulations and any permits issued thereunder shall provide, operate, and maintain the necessary
pretreatment facilities in accordance with the district's pretreatment rules and regulations. Industrial users
required to apply for a discharge permit pursuant to the district's pretreatment rules and regulations shall
obtain such permit prior to discharging into the sewer system. Applications shall be in the form prescribed
by the district.

Discharge Limitations:

1. Generally: No person shall discharge into the sewer system any substance or in a manner which,
under ordinary circumstances, either: a) is harmful or detrimental to or interferes with either the
sewer system, the functioning of the sewer system, the environment, or the public health; or b)
causes sewage to pass through the sewer system without treatment and thereby creating a
significant health hazard or diminishing the quality of the environment.

2. Discharge Of Prohibited Substances:

a. Prohibition: No person shall discharge into the sewer system any substance listed as
prohibited in appendix-ADistrict Rules and Regulations Section 2.2, attached to the
ordinance codified herein and on file in the city office.

b. b.— Adoption And Amendment-OF Appendix Az Appendix-A-is-adopted-as of this
date—and-authority is-hereby-delegated to the distriette-amend or modify-appendix-A,
suchthat-appendix A-controls-discharges-into the sewer systen-to-the extent-necessary
to-safeguard_trom-substantial_detriment the-sewersystem,_the-environment—and-the
health safety-and-welfare-of the-residents-of the city This -delegation-is-revocable-and
does—net—prevent—further—legislation—in—this—_respeet—by—the—city:_however—such
legistation-by-the-city-shall-net-be-deemed-arevocation-of this-delegation—unless-the
intentto-revoke-is-clearly-expressedin-written_forn-and-approved-by_the-city-council:
Inthe event-of any_inconsisteney-_between-enactments-of the -city-and-enactments-of the
district-pursuant-to-the-authority-delegatedin-this-section, the enactinents-of the-city
shal-contrel.Should-an-anrendmento-appendixA-by the district be-held-invatid-for
any-reason, the text-of-appendix_A-as-most-recentlyadopted-oramended-by_the-city
shall-not—be-repealed—oraffeeted_by—the-attemptedamendment_of-the-disSeparate
Violations: Discharge of a substance prohibited by one section or- subsection or-other
division-of-appendix—A-shall be a separate violation in addition to discharge of the
same or similar substance prohibited by another section or subsection-erdivisier—ef

appendix A.

3. Immediate Reporting: Immediately upon discharging a prohibited substance or upon discovering
that a prohibited substance has been discharged, the person performing or discovering such
discharge shall immediately notify the staff of the district of the discharge by the most rapid

available means, if such person knows or reasonably should have known that: a) the substance was
discharged; and b) the discharge of the substance was prohibited. Notification pursuant to this
subsection does not relieve the person notifying of any liability, except liability for violation of
this subsection.

4. Preventing Accidental Discharge:

a. Generally: Every person conducting an activity which creates a substantial risk that a
prohibited substance will be discharged into the sewer system shall provide adequate
protection against accidental discharge of such a prohibited substance by either: 1)
implementing procedures or practices which tend to reduce the likelihood of such a
discharge; and/or 2) installing facilities designed to prevent such accidental discharge.
The district may identify persons required to provide such protection and direct them
to comply with this subsection.

b. District May Require: The district is hereby authorized to specify particular
procedures, practices and/or facilities which shall be implemented by any person: 1) if
the district finds that there is substantial risk of a discharge prohibited by this section if
preventative measures are not undertaken; and 2) if such procedures, practices and/or
facilities substantially reduce the risk of discharge prohibited by this section; and 3) if
the cost of implementing such procedures, practices and/or installing such facilities is
found by the district to be reasonable in light of both the potential damage to the sewer
system and/or the environment if an accidental discharge occurs, and the effectiveness
of the equipment in preventing such an accidental discharge.

c. Plans: In every case where facilities are required to be installed pursuant to this
subsection, the district is hereby authorized to require submission of detailed plans for
the required facilities and their operation before construction of the facilities is begun.

5. Preventing Future Discharges:

a. Report: Within five (5) days after the discharge of a prohibited substance, the person
who discharged such substance shall file with the district or its designee a written
report describing: 1) the nature and content of the discharge; 2) the cause of the
discharge; and 3) remedial measures to be taken by the discharger to prevent similar
discharges in the future. The district or its designee may inspect the site of the
accidental discharge and interview any person involved in the discharge in order to
ascertain or confirm what happened and assure that remedial measures adequate to
prevent future accidents are carried out as represented.

b. District May Require Changes: If: 1) a person has discharged a prohibited substance;
and 2) it is highly likely that the same person will again discharge a similar prohibited
substance in the future if preventative measures are not undertaken, then the district is
hereby authorized to require the person who discharged the prohibited substance to
make changes in equipment, facilities, procedures or practices, which changes: 1) have
the effect of substantially reducing the risk of a similar discharge in the future; and 2)
are found by the district to be reasonable in cost in light of the potential damage to the
system and environment arising out of a similar prohibited discharge in the future.
Nothing in this subsection relieves any person of any liability, except liability for
violation of this subsection.

6. Self-Monitoring And Reporting: The district or its designee is hereby authorized to require that
persons discharging into the sewer system, other than persons discharging only ordinary domestic

sewage, monitor and report their sewage discharges in a manner and to the extent necessary to: a)
provide adequate compliance with and enforcement of this section; b) assess the source of the
components of the sewage transmitted, treated and disposed of by the district; c) charge reasonable
fees to dischargers based on actual discharges or reasonable classifications of discharges. The
district or its designee is further hereby authorized to require that such monitoring and reporting be
performed at the expense of the person discharging. Every person required by the district to
monitor and report pursuant to this section shall monitor and report as required by the district in
conformity with this section.

7. Compliance Monitoring: The district or its designee is hereby authorized to sample and analyze
the sewage, and inspect the facilities, of persons discharging into the sewer system in order to
determine or verify compliance with this section. The district is further authorized to require the
installation of reasonable facilities, such as manholes, to enable such sampling. However, nothing
in this section limits any power that the district may have to investigate or enforce compliance
with other sections of this chapter or through means not specified in this subsection.

8. Strict Liability: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be guilty without regard to
fault, knowledge, intent, or the state of mind of the person committing the violation.

9. Nuisance: Any condition or situation which causes a violation of this chapter is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and may be abated as provided by law. (Ord. 13-32, 9-26-2013)

8-5-6: SEVERABILITY:

If any part or provision of this chapter is held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not
affect any other portion of this chapter, and all provisions, clauses, and words of this chapter shall be severable.
Specifically the-invalidity of any _delegation-of authorityto the district shall not-affect-the-validity-of appendix-A_or
any-other-prevision-adopted-by_the-city-couneil-in-this-chapter-or-atater-ordinance-(Ord. 13-32, 9-26-2013)

8-5-7: PENALTY:

The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section 1-4-1 of this code. In the case of a violation continuing for more than one day, each day in which the
violation continues shall be a separate offense. (Ord. 13-32, 9-26-2013)

Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2021-01

SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AN AMENDMENT TO THE HERRIMAN
CITY CODE TITLE 8, CHAPTER 5 REGARDING SEWAGE DISPOSAL

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts x
Jared Henderson xX
Sherrie Ohrn X
Steven Shields x
Clint Smith x x

TOTALS 4 1

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 13" day of
January, 2021, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2021-01
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION
This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 13" day
of January, 2021, with a short summary being published on the 22" day of January 2021, in the
Deseret News, a newspaper published in Salt Lake City, Utah. I hereby certify and attest that the

foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings with respect to the ordinance
number referenced above.

Signed this 13" day of January 2021

)

HE RAM AN

y


