HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2021-10

AN ORDINANCE OF THE HERRIMAN CITY COUNCIL OF APPROVING AN
AMENDMENT TO TITLE 6 OF THE HERRIMAN CITY CODE AND ADOPTING,
THEREWITH, A FEE SCHEDULE FOR VIOLATIONS OF TITLE 6.

WHEREAS, the Herriman City Council (“Council”) met in regular meeting on April 14,
2021 to consider, among other things, approving an amendment to Title 6 of the Herriman City
Code; and

WHEREAS, the Council is authorized to enact ordinances, codify such ordinances, and
make amendments to such codifications as set forth in Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-707; and

WHEREAS, the Council previously adopted and codified Title 6 of the Herriman City
Code as the Traffic Code for the City; and

WHEREAS, the Council has considered and discussed certain changes to Title 6 of the
Herriman City Code with regard to traffic and parking enforcement; and

WHEREAS, Council has reviewed the proposed changes to Title 6 and hereby finds that
it is in the best interests of the public to adopt the proposed changes to Title 6 of the Herriman
City Code.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Herriman City Council as follows:
1. Title 6 of the Herriman City Code, attached hereto as Exhibit A, is hereby adopted.

2. The City Recorder is authorized to publish the updated Title 6 upon passage and
publication of this Ordinance.

3. The Title 6 Fee Schedule, as attached hereto as Exhibit B, is hereby adopted and the
City’s Master Fee Schedule shall be amended to include these fees.

This ordinance assigned no. 2021-10 shall take effect immediately upon passage and
acceptance as provided herein.

PASSED AND APPROVED by the Council of Herriman, Utah, this 14th day of April,
2021,

ATTEST:


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2021-10
SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE OF THE HERRIMAN CITY APPROVING AN
AMENDMENTTO TITLE 6 OF THE HERRIMAN CITY CODE AND ADOPTING,
THEREWITH, A FEE SCHEDULE FOR VIOLATIONS OF TITLE 6.

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER

David Watts

Clint Smith

Jared Henderson

Sherie Ohrn xX

~ | mM] KM] mK OX

Steven Shields X

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 14" day of
April, 2020, on a roll call vote as described above.

TITLE 6
VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC

CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS

6-1-1: SHORT TITLE
This title is known and may be cited as the “Herriman City Traffic Code”
6-1-2: STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
The following statutory provisions are adopted by this reference as if fully set forth in the Herriman City Traffic Code
provided, however, that those statutory provisions which are exclusive to the state of Utah or which are not enforceable
by Herriman City under the laws of the state of Utah, are excluded:
A. Utah Code Annotated Title 41, the Motor Vehicles Act, as amended;
B. Utah Code Annotated Title 53, Chapter 3, the Uniform Driver's License Act, as amended; and
C. Utah Code Annotated Title 72, the Transportation Code.
6-1-3: APPLICABILITY
A. General Applicability: Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated § 10-8-30, as amended, and to the extent permitted

by law, the Herriman City Traffic Code shall be applicable to all vehicular traffic and parking on any public
roads, streets, or highways within the boundaries or jurisdiction of Herriman City.

B. Public Schools: Subject to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated § 53G-8-604(1), the Herriman City Traffic
Code is hereby made applicable to vehicular traffic and parking on all public school property within Herriman
City and shall be enforced upon such property as set forth herein.

6-1-4: EXCEPTIONS

Subject to the provisions of Utah Code Ann. § 41-6a-212, the Herriman City Traffic Code shall not apply to official
emergency vehicles, law enforcement vehicles, maintenance vehicles, or persons driving such vehicles when the
authorized vehicle is being driven in response to an emergency, or when the authorized vehicle is used in the pursuit
of an actual or suspected violator of the law, or when responding to a fire alarm or other emergency, or when the
authorized vehicle is actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within the boundaries of Herriman City,

6-1-5: ENFORCEMENT; AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE
All law enforcement officers having jurisdiction within Herriman City are vested with the authority to interpret and
enforce the Herriman City Traffic Code on all roads, streets, highways, and parking lots within Herriman City.

Additionally, a municipal officer or official who is not a law enforcement officer may issue civil citations under
Chapter 5A of this Title for all violations that are punishable as infractions and do not constitute moving violations.

Page | of 25

6-1-6: PENALTIES; FINES
A. Except as otherwise set forth in the Code, a violation of the Herriman City Traffic Code shall be an infraction.

B. Fines for violations of the Herriman City Traffic Code shall be as set forth in the State’s uniform bail schedule
or as otherwise established in the Herriman City Fee Schedule as the same is amended from time to time.

CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC SIGNS, DEVICES, AND MARKINGS
6-2-1: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
A. The City may place and maintain such traffic control devices on streets, highways, trails, bike paths, alleys,
public parking areas, private roads and maintenance roads, as are necessary to indicate, regulate, warn or
guide traffic, or to carry out the provisions of the Herriman City Traffic Code.
B. All signs, devices, and signals erected or installed under this section shall conform to and be maintained in

conformance with the department of transportation manual and specifications for a uniform system of traffic
control devices under Utah Code Annotated § 41-6a-301 et seq., as amended.

6-2-2: CURB AND PAVEMENT MARKINGS

The City shall paint and maintain traffic markings upon curbs or pavement of any highway under its jurisdiction as
necessary to restrict or prohibit the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles in such areas and to carry out the
provisions of the Herriman City Traffic Code.

6-2-3: FAILURE TO OBEY

It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey any lawfully erected traffic control device, signal, or curb or
pavement marking unless otherwise directed to do so by a law enforcement officer.

CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SAFETY REGULATIONS

6-3-1: INTERFERENCE WITH CONTROL OF VEHICLE PROHIBITED

No driver shall engage in any activity that interferes with the safe control and operation of his vehicle while the same
is in motion.

6-3-2: REASONABLE AND PROPER LOOKOUT REQUIRED

It is unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle on the streets of the City without keeping a reasonable and proper
lookout for other traffic, persons, or objects.

6-3-3: NEGLIGENT COLLISION

It is unlawful to operate a vehicle with such lack of due care as to cause the same to collide with any vehicle, person,
or object.

6-3-4: AVOIDING INTERSECTIONS PROHIBITED
It is unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle through a private driveway, lot or similar area, whether vacant

or not, where any residence, business establishment, or any kind of a business or trade is maintained or carried on, for
the purpose and with the intent of avoiding obedience to any traffic regulation or to avoid traffic congestion.

Page 2 of 25

6-3-5: DAMAGING TRAFFIC SIGNS PROHIBITED

It is unlawful for any person to drive into, alter, deface, injure, move, knock down, demolish, remove or interfere with
any traffic sign, standard, post, chain, gate, rope, pavement markings, or other traffic control device installed for the
purpose of directing or regulating traffic in the city.

6-3-6: OBSTRUCTION OF VIEW PROHIBITED

A.

It is unlawful for persons owning or occupying property adjacent to any street or highway in the city to permit
any tree, plant, shrub, sign, vehicle, fence or other obstacle of any kind located on said property to block the
view of traffic signs to the vision of oncoming motorists or to obscure the vision of oncoming traffic so as to
constitute a traffic hazard.

When the city determines, upon the basis of an engineering or traffic investigation, that a traffic hazard exists,
it shall notify the owner or occupant and order that the hazard be removed within ten (10) days.

The failure of the owner or occupant to remove the traffic hazard within ten (10) days of notification is a
violation of this section.

When the city determines, upon the basis of an engineering or traffic investigation, that an obstruction is an
imminent hazard to public safety, then the city may require the owner or occupant to immediately remove
the obstruction or hazard, or the city may remove the obstruction or hazard at the expense of the owner.

6-3-7: ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKE DEVICES PROHIBITED OR RESTRICTED

A.

It is a violation of this section to use any engine compression brake device or system, commonly referred to
as a Jake Brake® or Jacobs Brake®, on any street, road or highway within the city limits unless the vehicle
is equipped with a factory installed muffler or an equivalent after-market muffler.

The restrictions established in this section shall not apply to fire engines, ambulances, or other emergency
vehicles.

CHAPTER 4
SPEED REGULATION

6-4-1: ESTABLISHING SPEED LIMITS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY

The City Engineer may determine, on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation consistent with Utah Code
Ann. § 41-6a-603, a reasonable and safe prima facie speed limit different than that specified by law. Such speed limit
is effective when appropriate signs giving notice are erected at an intersection or other place or part of a street to which
the speed limit applies. When such signs are in place, any speed in excess of the posted limits is prima facie evidence
that the speed is not reasonable or prudent and that it is unlawful under this section.,

CHAPTER 5
STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING

6-5-1: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED AREAS

It shall be a violation of this Title for any person to stop, stand, or park a vehicle, or to permit another person to do the
same, in any of the following:

A.

B.

In front of or within five feet (5') of a private driveway or alley;

In front of or within ten feet (10') of a mailbox between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock
(5:00) P.M., on days that mail is delivered;

Page 3 of 25

m

mo

_—

K.

L.

Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk;

Within thirty feet (30’) of an intersection;

In front of or within fifteen feet (15’) of a fire hydrant;

On or across a sidewalk;

Within thirty feet (30') from the approach to any traffic control device;

Within fifty feet (50°) of the nearest rails of any railroad crossing;

Within twenty feet (20') of the entrance to a fire station, or on the street opposite of the entrance to a fire

station;

At any place where traffic-control devices, including temporary devices, prohibit parking;

In any location or in any manner that the vehicle is parked opposite of the flow of traffic on the street; or

At any place marked with a red curb.

6-5-2: PARKING OF TRUCKS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES

A. Definitions.

1.

“COMMERCIAL VEHICLE” means any motor vehicle, vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer used or
maintained for business, compensation or profit to transport passengers or property on a
highway, if the commercial vehicle:

a.

Has a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating or gross combination weight rating
of ten thousand one (10,001) or more pounds;

Is designed to transport more than fifteen (15) passengers, including the driver; or

Is used in the transportation of hazardous materials and is required to be placarded in
accordance with 49 CFR part 172, subpart F.

The following vehicles are not considered a "commercial vehicle” for purposes of this chapter:

a.

Equipment owned and operated by the United States Department of Defense when
driven by any active duty military personnel and members of the Reserves and
National Guard on active duty, including personnel on full time National Guard duty,
personnel on part time training, and National Guard military technicians and civilians
who are required to wear military uniforms and are subject to the Code of Military
Justice;

Firefighting and emergency vehicles, operated by emergency personnel, not including
commercial tow trucks;

City or County commercial vehicles being used in the servicing of adjacent properties
or streets; and

Recreational vehicles that are driven solely as family or personal conveyances for
noncommercial purposes.

Page 4 of 25

B. No person shall park any commercial vehicle on a residential street or along any collector or arterial street
within the jurisdiction of the City unless the person is actively loading cargo into or unloading cargo from
the commercial vehicle.

C. Removal or Impoundment: Any commercial vehicle that receives three (3) or more notices or citations for
violating this section within a one hundred eighty (180) day period may be moved by a peace officer or
impounded at the owner's expense.

6-5-3: ANGLE PARKING; RESTRICTIONS

The City may, after placement of appropriate signs and markings, designate certain areas as suitable for angle parking.
No vehicle may park in an area designated for angle parking if any portion of the vehicle extends into the travel lane.
It is prohibited to angle park, front end first, in areas designated for reverse angle parking. Angle parking is only
permitted in designated areas.

6-5-4: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC PROHIBITED

No person shall stand, stop, or park any vehicle upon a street or highway in such a manner or under such conditions
as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the street or highway for free movement of vehicular traffic.

6-5-5: PARKING PROHIBITED WHEN

It is unlawful for any person who owns or has possession, custody or control of any vehicle or trailer to park or
knowingly allow to be parked any vehicle or trailer on any street or highway:

A. When it is snowing or snow is on the street during the months of November, December, January, February,
March, and April; or

B. Fora period longer than twenty-four (24) consecutive hours; or

C. For any period longer than that allowed by appropriate signs, markings or parking meters giving notice of
such parking time limitation.

6-5-6: PARKING PROHIBITED ON EMERGENCY ACCESS STREETS

It is unlawful for any person who owns or has possession, custody or control of any vehicle or trailer to park, or
knowingly allow to be parked any vehicle or trailer, on any private road or driveway that serves as an emergency
access, turnaround or within a twenty foot (20') clear zone.

6-5-7: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIRED WHEN AVAILABLE

No person shall park a vehicle on the street when it is possible under the existing conditions to park the vehicle off
the street in a designated parking area in which the person is authorized or otherwise permitted to park and where such
parking would not constitute a violation of this Title.

6-5-8: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED

No person shall park or operate a vehicle upon any street or highway for the principal purpose of maintaining or
repairing such vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an emergency.

6-5-9: PARKING ON PUBLIC SCHOOL GROUNDS
A. Student Parking Areas: Students shall park in student- designated parking areas only.
B. Faculty Parking Areas: Only authorized faculty may park in designated faculty parking areas.

C. Restricted Areas: Unauthorized vehicles shall not park in restricted areas.

Page 5 of 25

D. Inside Marked Stalls: All vehicles shall be parked inside marked parking stalls.
E. Motorcycles: Motorcycles must be parked in an area designated for motorcycle parking.
6-5-10: VEHICLE TRESPASS

A. The owner or lessee of commercial property that invites the public to park or drive motor vehicles upon the
property during business hours may close the property to the public during non-business hours by posting on
the property a sign, clearly visible, stating the time(s) the public is prohibited to park or drive a motor vehicle
upon it. It shall be unlawful for any person to park or drive a motor vehicle upon a property that has been
posted closed to the public at any time when the property is so closed.

B. The owner or lessee of commercial property may restrict access to the property during business hours by
posting a sign, clearly visible, limiting access to patrons of the business. The owner or lessee may revoke a
patron’s permission to be on the property.

C. It shall be a defense that:

1. The owner or lessee of the property has granted express permission to the person to park or
drive upon the property;

2. The person is operating a police or other emergency vehicle; or
3. The vehicle being operated or parked upon the property is devoted to commercial or industrial

purposes in connection with the property and permission for such operation is impliedly or
expressly given by the property owner.

D. Vehicle trespass under this section shall be a strict liability offense.
6-5-11: REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE
Whenever any officer of a Police Department or the City finds a vehicle parked or standing upon a street or highway
in violation of this title, the officer is authorized to move the vehicle or require the driver or other person in charge of

the vehicle to move it to a position not in violation of this title.

6-5-12: PARKING OF MOTOR HOMES, TRAILERS, CAMPERS, BOATS AND RECREATIONAL
VEHICLES

It is unlawful to park or keep any motor home, trailer, camper, boat, recreational vehicle or trailer of any kind, attached
or unattached, on a public street, except for the limited purpose of loading or unloading the same, not to exceed twelve
(12) hours.

6-5-13: OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY

Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in violation of the Herriman City Traffic Code, the person in whose
name such vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible for such violation and subject to the penalty therefore.

6-5-14: ENHANCED PENALTY
Any person receiving three or more notices or citation for violations of this title, or for notices or violations of the

Herriman City Traffic Code, within the jurisdiction of Herriman City, within a one hundred eighty-day period, shall
be subject to having his or her vehicle impounded.

Page 6 of 25

CHAPTER 5, ARTICLE A
CIVIL INFRACTIONS

6-5A-1: INTENT

It is the intent of the City to decriminalize certain violations which have traditionally been regulated by the criminal
laws of the State of Utah and Title 1 of this Code. This is done to assist residents and visitors of Herriman City by
expediting the resolution of these cases and to remove the negative stigma attached to criminal actions. This is done,
in part, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-8-84 and 10-3-703(2)(a). The procedures set forth below shall be utilized
to expedite resolution of cases arising under Title 6, Chapter 5 of this Code.

6-5A-2: CIVIL INFRACTIONS, CONTINUING VIOLATION

A. The following acts are hereby declared to be civil infractions, and not criminal offenses, and within the
jurisdiction of the Civil Violations Hearing Examiner:

1. Violations of any of the regulations contained in Title 6, Chapter 5 of this Code;

2. Violations of any of the regulations contained in Title 6, Chapter 6 of this Code;

3. Violations of parking laws and regulations not inconsistent with this Code which are described
in the Utah State Code which has been adopted as a portion of this Code under Section 6-1-2

above; or

4. Violations of motor vehicle license plate and registration regulations when the motor vehicle is
parked on public property;

B. Except as otherwise set forth herein or in Utah State Code, it shall be a separate civil offense for each violation
of any of the regulations under 6-5A-2(A).

6-5A-3: CIVIL VIOLATIONS HEARING EXAMINER

The position of Civil Violations Hearing Examiner is hereby created within the legal department. A hearing examiner
shall be a member in good standing of the Utah State Bar and shall perform all duties and exercise all powers
prescribed in this Article. A hearing examiner may perform his/her duties through subordinates, except that a hearing
shall be conducted only by a hearing examiner if a person charged with a civil infraction so requires in writing. The
amount of a hearing examiner’s or subordinate’s compensation shall not be based directly or indirectly upon the
outcome of cases heard by the hearing examiner or subordinate, as the case may be.

6-5A-4: NOTICE OF INFRACTION

A written notice of infraction shall be issued to each person charged with a civil infraction, which notice shall contain
not less than the following information:

A. The name and address of the person charged with the civil infraction;

B. The civil infraction(s) charged including the specific section(s) and subsection(s), as the case may be, of the
infraction;

C. The date and place of the civil infraction(s);
D. Ifthe civil infraction(s) involved the use of a motor vehicle, the make of the vehicles and its license number;

E. Written warning that the notice of infraction must be responded to at the Herriman City Customer Service
Department; and

Page 7 of 25

F,

6-5A-5:

A.

6-5A-6:

6-5A-7:

A.

Other information regarding payment of the civil infraction and procedures for requesting a hearing with the
Civil Violations Hearing Examiner.

RESPONSE TO NOTICE

Any person to whom a notice of infraction has been issued shall respond within five (5) days thereof by:
1. Paying the fee described in section 6-5A-6 of this Article;
2. Contesting the violation in the manner described in section 6-5A-7 of this Article; or

3. Demonstrating financial inability to pay the applicable fee on any reasonable terms, in which
event the hearing examiner may require the performance of a stipulated public service to be
performed in not more than thirty (30) days in lieu of paying the fee. Such public service shall
be performed within Herriman City and for the benefit of the City or another not-for-profit
organization located within the City.

Fees may be paid by mail, but all risk that payments may be lost in the mail shall be on the sender, Payment
shall be considered made on the day received by the City and not on the day the payment is mailed.

FEES

Fees and other money related to civil infractions under this Article shall be paid to the Herriman City Finance
Department in such manner, not inconsistent with this Code, as the Finance Director shall direct. Neither the
Civil Hearing Examiner nor any subordinate shall receive any fees or other money related to civil infractions
over which the Civil Hearing Examiner has jurisdiction.

The fee for violations of a parking regulation shall be as follows:
1. $25.00 if paid or contested within five (5) business days after a notice of infraction is issued.

2. $35.00 if paid or contested between six (6) and ten (10) business days after a notice of infraction
is issued.

3. $50.00 if paid or contested between eleven (11) and fifteen (15) business days after a notice of
infraction is issued.

4. A civil parking infraction not paid within fifteen (15) business days after the notice of infraction
is issued shall, in addition to the $50.00 fee provided in subsection (3) above, accrue additional
penalty at the rate of $25.00 per month until paid. A parking infraction not paid within fifteen
(15) business days shall be deemed to be in default and shall thereafter be subject to the
remedies described in sections 6-5A-10 and 6-5A-11 of this Article.

CONTESTING A CIVIL INFRACTION

Any person charged with a civil infraction may contest the violation instead of paying the fee. Such contest
shall be commenced no later than fifteen (15) business days after the notice of infraction has been issued by
causing written request for a hearing to be delivered to the office of the civil violations hearing examiner.

Failure to contest the notice of infraction within five (5) business days or ten (10) business days as provided
in Section 6-5A-6 of this Article may affect the fee charged in the matter if the violation is not successfully
contested.

When a civil infraction is contested as described herein, the Civil Infraction Hearing Examiner shall conduct
a civil hearing with respect to the violation. The notice of infarction shall constitute prima facie evidence that

the infraction alleged therein actually occurred. The hearing shall be conducted as informally as the

Page 8 of 25

6-5A-8:

6-5A-9:

A.

B.

circumstances will allow and shall be based on the civil standard of a preponderance of the evidence. At the
hearing, any party may be required to testify.

The hearing examiner shall determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, if the alleged civil infraction
occurred. If the hearing examiner finds that it did not occur, the notice of infraction shall be without any
further force or effect. If the hearing examiner finds that it did occur, the person to whom the notice of
infraction was issued shall have the obligation set forth in section 6-5A-5(1) or (3), and 6-5A-9 of this Article.
Compliance with those sections shall be within five (5) business days after the hearing unless the decision is
given by mail rather than at the hearing, in which event, compliance shall be within ten (10) business days
after the decision is mailed to the address given on the written notice of contest. The notice of infraction shall
be considered to be in default if there is not compliance with this Article in the time periods provided in this
subsection.

SPECIAL PROVISIONS

The notice of infraction may be issued by affixing the notice of infraction in a conspicuous place on the
subject motor vehicle.

Whenever a motor vehicle has been parked in violation of any regulation of Title 6, Chapter 5, the person in
whose name such vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible for such violation and liable for
payment of the applicable fee.

Any motor vehicle with respect to which three (3) or more notice of infractions are in default is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance, and the City or any City Police Officer may authorize said motor vehicle to
be towed from the public streets at the expense and risk of the registered owner. Said motor vehicle shall be
held and not released until the unpaid fees, together with reasonable costs of towing and storage, have been
paid.

If a motor vehicle has been towed from the public streets pursuant to this Section and is being held for the
payment of fees and charges, the owner thereof, or the agent of the owner, may request in writing a hearing
before the Civil Violations Hearing Examiner to determine the validity of the action taken with respect to
said motor vehicle. Said hearing shall take place within seventy-two (72) hours from the date of the request
unless the applicant agrees to a longer period of time before the hearing. The hearing examiner may order
the release of any motor vehicle without cost to the owner or the owner’s agent if said motor vehicle was
towed from the public streets and is being held in violation of this Article or other applicable law.

CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS
Definitions. As used in this Section:

1. “DEFAULT” means the failure of a registered owner or any other person to whom a notice of
infraction has been issued to pay or contest a notice of infraction issued under this chapter
within 15 business days as set forth in sections 6 and 7 of this Article.

2. “REGISTERED OWNER” means the individual, entity, company, organization, or any other
person capable of holding title of a vehicle whose name or other identifying information is listed

on a vehicle’s registration.

Notwithstanding any contrary provision in this Article, it shall be a criminal infraction, with exclusive
jurisdiction in the Herriman City Justice Court:

1. For any person to whom a notice of infraction has been issued, including a registered owner, to
allow the subject action to go into default;

2. For any person to whom a notice of infraction has been issued, including a registered owner, to
fail or refuse to respond to a notice of infraction issued pursuant to this Article;

Page 9 of 25

C.

3. For any person to whom a notice of infraction has been issued, including a registered owner, to
fail to appear at a hearing to contest a notice of infraction scheduled in accordance with section
7 of this Article; or

4. For any person to fail to comply with the findings or orders of the Civil Violations Hearing
Examiner after a contest and hearing under section 7 of this Article.

For purposes of this section, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that the notice of infraction and any other
notices have been received by the addressee or the registered owner at the registered owner’s address.

6-5A-10: CIVIL COLLECTION ACTIONS

The City may bring civil suit in appropriate courts to recover the amount of overdue and unpaid fees, together with
any other reasonable charges related thereto.

CHAPTER 6
PARKING PERMIT PROGRAM

6-6-1: PURPOSE

A. There exist certain facilities within the city, such as schools and parks which attract commuters seeking

parking in nearby areas which are predominantly residential in nature. The increased demand often
exacerbates the severe shortage of on street parking for residents in such areas.

This chapter authorizes a program and implements a procedural system by which residents and businesses
within qualifying areas may receive preferential treatment when competing with commuter vehicles for
available on street parking in predominantly residential neighborhoods of the city. The enactment of a
preferential parking permit program administered and coordinated by community development, can address
the adverse effect of motor vehicle congestion caused by the long-term parking of commuter vehicles within
these areas by:

1. Increasing access to residents;
2. Increasing traffic/pedestrian safety by reducing traffic congestion;

3. Reducing the adverse environmental impacts on an area created by excessive air and noise
pollution and the accumulation of trash and refuse on public streets;

4. Encouraging the use of mass transit, carpooling and other alternative modes of transaction by
reducing commuter vehicle traffic that originates from outside the permit area and has no
apparent relation to area residents; and

5. Promoting the tranquility, safety, health and welfare of area inhabitants, which are desirable
attributes that are associated with a positive urban environment.

6-6-2: DEFINITIONS

As used in this chapter:

A.

“ADDRESS” means the street number and applicable apartment/condominium number for each dwelling
unit, business, or other use. Each apartment or commercial unit is regarded as a separate address.

“AREA” means without reference to zoning, a geographical region, not necessarily contiguous, where
residents dwell and businesses may operate.

Page 10 of 25

“AREA BUSINESS” means any professional establishment or nonresident property owner whose business
property is located within a city parking permit area.

“AREA PERMITTEE” means an area resident or an area business which has received from the city an area
regular permit.

“AREA REGULAR PERMIT” or “REGULAR PERMIT DECAL” means a valid decal or cardstock placard
hung from the vehicle's rearview mirror issued by the city for assignment to vehicles under the legal control
of area residents and/or area businesses.

“AREA RESIDENT” means any person who is a bona fide resident of a parking permit area.

“AREA VEHICLE” means a vehicle that originates from inside a parking permit area and is under the control
of area residents or area business owners and includes automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, or other motor
driven forms of transportation. The term “area vehicle" does not include boats and trailers.

“CITY PERMIT AREA” or “PARKING PERMIT AREA” means any area designated by the city council as
a permit parking area within the corporate limits of Herriman City wherein motor vehicles displaying a permit
as described herein shall be exempt from parking regulations or restrictions solely applicable to commuter
vehicles.

“CITY PERMIT PROGRAM” means any Herriman City permit parking program, as a whole, administered
by community development.

“COMMUTER VEHICLE” means a motor vehicle parked in a city permit parking area that: a) is not under
the control of an area resident or area business; and b) does not bear a permit as described herein for the
parking permit area.

“DWELLING” means a building, or portion thereof, which is designated for residential purposes. Such
dwelling must bear an address. The number of independent dwelling units recognized therein shall not exceed
the number authorized by the applicable zoning ordinances.

“GUEST PERMIT” means the portable cardstock placard issued by the city to area residents and area
businesses for use on vehicles under the legal control of guests, customers and/or clients during periods when
persons operating said vehicles are actually visiting or engaged in business at the permittee's address not to
exceed forty five (45) days.

. “LEASE” means a person pays rent or other remuneration for use of a parcel of real property as such person's
residence or place of business.

“OWNS” means a person has at least one-fourth (!/,) of the fee or equitable interest in a parcel of real property
within a city permit parking area.

“PERMIT VEHICLE” means any vehicle properly displaying a regular permit or a guest permit issued by
the city for authorized use on such vehicles.

“PERMIT YEAR” means the twelve (12) month period set for the administration of a city permit area,
including the expiration and renewal of permit area regular and guest permits.

“PROGRAM?” means and shall refer to the process of designation, administration and enforcement of all city
parking permit areas and regulations established by the city council pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.

“REGULAR PERMIT” means an adhesive decal or cardstock placard hung from the vehicle's rearview
mirror that was issued by the city for assignment to vehicles under the legal control of area residents and area

businesses.

“RESIDENT” means a person who resides or dwells in the city parking permit area on a regular basis.

Page 11 of 25

6-6-3: AREA DESIGNATION; AUTHORITY

The city council may designate as a parking permit area any area, within the corporate limits of the City which the
city council finds to satisfy the area designation criteria detailed below in Section 6-7-4. Such area shall then be a city
permit area in which motor vehicles displaying an area regular permit or guest permit may stand or be parked without
limitations imposed on commuter vehicles by the parking regulations in the area.

6-6-4: AREA DESIGNATION; CRITERIA

A.

C.

An area may be eligible for consideration as a city permit area if the community development director
determines, after proper evaluation, that the qualified area is adversely affected by commuter vehicles for
any extended period(s) during the day or night, on weekends or holidays.

In determining adverse effects upon an area, the community development director shall analyze and evaluate
factors which include, but are not limited to, the following:

1. The extent of the desire and perception of need by the residents for permit parking as evidenced
by receipt of petitions as required herein;

2. The extent to which legal on street parking spaces are occupied by motor vehicles during any
given time period; and

3. The extent to which vehicles parking in the area during the period proposed for parking
regulations are commuter vehicles rather than resident vehicles

The community development director may consider for proposed designation as a city permit area, an area
whose streets (or portions thereof) qualify by satisfying the following eligibility criteria:

1. A major portion of the parking capacity is generally occupied;

2. Such occupancy continues for any consecutive four (4) hour period and such occupancy rate
occurs on an average of at least four (4) days per week;

3. Twenty five percent (25%) of the vehicles occupying the on street spaces are other than area
vehicles; and

4. The requesting area consists of curb space fronting a minimum of ten (10) contiguous
residences in length.

6-6-5: AREA DESIGNATION; PROCESS

A.

B.

Persons desiring to have an area designated a parking permit area shall consult with the community
development director, to tentatively establish the boundaries of the area proposed for designation.

As soon as practical after consulting with the community development director the proponents of the parking
permit area shall submit a petition in a form acceptable to the city containing the signatures of a minimum of
fifty one percent (51%) of the residents living within the boundaries of the area proposed for the parking
permit area.

As soon as practical after submitting the petition containing the required signatures, the proponents of the
parking permit area shall submit a list from the Salt Lake County assessor's office that list each separate tax
parcel/property owner of record within the proposed parking permit area together with the complete address
of such owner.

Upon receipt of the petition containing the required signatures and the list from the Salt Lake County
assessor's office and on the community development director's favorable recommendation to establish a

Page 12 of 25

parking permit area, the city council, as soon as practicable consistent with scheduling constraints, may fix a
time, date and location for a public hearing to consider the petition and the community development director's
recommendation to designate the proposed area a parking permit area where on street parking is restricted or
allowed by area regular permit or temporary visitor permit only. Said hearing shall also be conducted for
comment and analysis to determine the boundaries as well as the appropriate area rules and regulations,
parking restrictions, issuance of permits, fees and other facets of appropriate implementation.

E. At least ten (10) days prior to the hearing date, written notice of the public hearing(s) provided for herein
shall be: 1) published in a newspaper of general circulation, 2) posted not more than four hundred feet (400')
apart along the streets proposed in the permit area, 3) mailed to the property owners within the proposed area,
and 4) on the Utah public notice website created under Utah Code Annotated section 63F-1-701. The notice
shall state the purpose of the hearing, the location of the hearing, the proposed boundaries of the parking
permit area, the proposed permit fee schedules and formulas for issuance, if any, and the location where the
petition and other information is on file and available for public review.

F. Any interested party shall be entitled to appear and be heard on the public hearing subject to city council
rules of procedure.

6-6-6: AREA DESIGNATION

A. Within thirty (30) days following the hearing, the city council shall deny or approve the designation of a
parking permit area.

B. Ifthe city council approves creation of a parking permit area, a declaration of designation shall be prepared
establishing the program, including the boundaries, parking regulations, fees, etc., for its administration and
implementation. The declaration of designation shall be mailed to each property owner supplied pursuant to
section 6-6-5 of this chapter.

C. As part of a declaration of designation, the city council may establish a conditional citation program. The
conditional citation program may include such terms and conditions as the city council shall determine
appropriate and shall be included as part of the declaration of designation.

6-6-7: SIGNS AND MARKINGS IN DESIGNATED AREAS

Upon the declaration of designation, the city shall cause appropriate signs, markings and/or meters to be erected in
the area, indicating prominently thereon the parking regulations, the effective date, and conditions under which permit
parking shall be exempt therefrom.

6-6-8: PARKING PERMIT; APPLICATION; TERM

Each area regular permit shall be valid for one year or portion as set forth in the declaration of designation. Permits
shall not be transferable but may be renewed annually upon reapplication in the manner required by community
development. Each application or reapplication for an area regular permit or guest permit shall contain information
sufficient to identify the applicant's identity, claim for permit eligibility, authorized residence or business address
within the city permit area, the license number of the motor vehicle for which application is made, and such other
information that may be deemed relevant by community development. Applications shall be accompanied by the fee
established in the declaration of designation.

6-6-9: FEES

To deftay program administration costs, the regular permit fee for two (2) permits and one guest permit fee shall be
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per year. The cost to replace a lost or stolen regular permit or a guest permit shall be five
dollars ($5.00).

6-6-10: PARKING PERMIT; ISSUANCE CONDITIONS

Area regular permits or guest permits shall be issued by community development. Each such permit shall be designed

Page 13 of 25

to state or reflect thereon the particular city permit parking area. No more than one such permit shall be issued for
each motor vehicle indicated on the application. The number of permits available and the manner for allocating permits
between various competing resident (as opposed to commuter) vehicles, and the manner in which the process will be
administered for each designated area in the program shall be established in the declaration of designation.

6-6-11: PARKING PERMIT; DISPLAY REQUIRED

Area regular permits or guest permits shall be displayed on or in the authorized vehicle by means of an adhesive decal
attached to the rear window of the authorized vehicle or a cardstock placard hung from the rearview mirror of the
authorized vehicle.

6-6-12: PARKING PERMIT; ACTIVITIES PERMITTED

A motor vehicle bearing an area regular permit or guest permit properly displayed as provided for herein, shall be
permitted to stand or be parked in the parking permit area for which the permit has been issued without being limited
by parking regulations or prohibitions solely applicable to commuter vehicles. The permit does not exempt drivers or
owners from complying with general parking regulations and penalties imposed by an applicable traffic code or
ordinance. All other motor vehicles not bearing an area permit or guest permit properly displayed as provided for
herein that are parked within a parking permit area shall be subject to the commuter parking regulations established
in the declaration of designation, and the penalties provided for herein.

6-6-13: GUEST PERMITS

The community development director is authorized to issue guest permits to residents and businesses located within
designated permit areas for use of their bona fide transient visitors, service persons, and construction personnel for a
limited duration not to exceed forty-five (45) days. Prior to expiration, a vehicle bearing a guest permit shal! have all
the parking rights, obligations and privileges given to area permittees.

6-6-14: PARKING PERMIT; REVOCATION CONDITIONS

A. Faithful compliance with the terms of the permit program is a condition subsequent to the privilege of
obtaining an area regular permit or guest permit. Violation of the terms of the city permit program shall be
deemed a forfeiture of those privileges.

1. Any person holding an area regular permit or guest permit that is convicted of a violation of this
chapter may be required to surrender such permit as a part of sentencing.

2. The community development director is authorized to revoke an area regular permit or guest permit
of any person found to be in violation of this chapter, and upon written notification thereof, the
person shall surrender such permit to the community development director. Failure, when so
requested, to surrender such a permit so revoked shall constitute an infraction.

3. Inthe event the community development director has good cause to believe that any person or entity
is abusing the guest permit system, he shall so notify such person abusing the guest permit system.
Any further application for a guest permit by such person found abusing the guest permit system
may be denied for a period of not more than one year.

B. Any person aggrieved by such a determination made by the community development director of this section
shall have the right to appeal to the city manager within seven (7) days of such determination.

6-6-15: ENLARGEMENT OF AREA

Any existing parking permit area may be enlarged by following substantially the same procedure set forth in
sections 6-6-3, 6-6-4 and 6-6-5 of this chapter for such enlarged area.

Page 14 of 25

6-6-16: REMOVAL OF AREA DESIGNATION OR DELETION OF STREETS

The city council may delete an area or selected street from the parking permit area by giving:

A.

Notice to all addresses within the boundary of the permit parking area proposed to be wholly removed from
permit parking designation or within the boundary of an existing permit parking area where certain streets
(or portions thereof) are proposed to be deleted from permit parking area that a public hearing is to be held
to consider this action. Such notice shall be given as provided for in subsection 6-6-5E of this chapter.

Such notice shall contain:
1. The date, time and place of the public hearing to consider the proposed removal or deletion.

2. A description of the city council's intention to remove from designation a permit parking area or to
delete certain streets (or portions thereof) from an existing permit parking area.

3. A listing of the streets (or portions thereof) proposed for removal from designation or deletion from
a permit parking area.

The hearing shall be conducted as provided herein.

Within thirty (30) days of the public hearing the city council shall approve or deny the proposed removal
from permit designation of an entire permit parking area or the proposed deletion of certain streets (or
portions thereof) from an existing permit parking area.

If permit parking area designation is removed from an entire area or if the deletion of certain streets (or
portions thereof) from an existing permit parking area is approved, a declaration of removal shall be prepared
and distributed to the areas so affected using the criteria outlined herein.

6-6-17; MODIFICATION OF REGULATIONS

The city council may modify the rules, regulations or restrictions governing an existing permit parking area by giving:

A.

6-6-18

A.

Notice to all addresses within the boundary of the existing permit area subject to the proposed modifications
of a public hearing to be held.

Such notice shall contain:
1. The date, time and place of the public hearing to consider the proposed modifications.
2. A description of the city council's proposed modifications to the existing permit parking area.
3. A listing of the streets (or portions thereof) that will be affected by the proposed modifications.
The hearing shall be conducted as provided herein.

Within thirty (30) days of the public hearing the city council shall approve or deny the proposed
modification(s).

If the modification(s) is approved, a notice shall be prepared and distributed to the areas so affected using the
criteria outlined herein.

: UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES; PENALTY
It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to stand or park a motor vehicle or to cause the

same to be done contrary to the parking regulations established pursuant hereto. Such violation shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).

Page 15 of 25

B. It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter for a person to falsely represent himself as eligible for an area
regular permit or a guest permit, or to furnish false information in an application therefor to the community
development director.

C. It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter for a person holding an area regular permit to permit the use or
display of such permit on a motor vehicle other than that for which the permit is issued. Such conduct shall
constitute an unlawful act and violation of this chapter, both by the person holding the valid parking permit
and the person who so uses or displays the permit on a motor vehicle other than that for which it is issued.
Such violation shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).

D. It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter for a person to copy, produce or otherwise bring into existence
a facsimile or counterfeit area regular permit or a guest permit in order to evade parking regulations applicable
in a city permit parking area.

CHAPTER 7
TOWING AND PARKING ENFOREMENT SERVICES

6-7-1: DEFINITIONS
For purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:

A. “AUTHORIZED VEHICLE” means a vehicle parked on private property for which permission has been
granted to park such vehicle.

B. “BOOT” means a device used by a towing or parking enforcement company to temporarily immobilize or
disable a motor vehicle for purposes of enforcing parking restrictions.

C. “MOTOR CARRIER” means a person engaged in or transacting the business of transporting passengers,
freight, merchandise, or other property by a commercial vehicle on a highway within the State of Utah and
includes a tow truck service business.

D. “PARKING ENFORCEMENT OPERATION” means providing parking enforcement services for
compensation within the limits of Herriman City.

E. “PARKING ENFORCEMENT SERVICE” means the practice of immobilizing (booting) or otherwise
disabling vehicles without the owner’s consent for the purpose of enforcing parking restriction on public
streets, private property, or public parking lots restricted as to certain uses.

F, “PERSON” means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, or a joint stock
association or venture.

G. “REMOVAL FEE” means a fee charged by a parking enforcer to remove an immobilization device.

H. “ROTATION LIST” means a list of certified and licensed towing companies maintained by the Herriman
City Police Department. Such list is provided to motorists who request the names of towing companies from
public safety officers.

[. “TOW TRUCK” means a motor vehicle constructed, designed, altered, or equipped primarily for the purpose
of towing or removing damaged, disable, abandoned, seized, or impounded vehicles from a highway or other
place by means of a crane, hoist, tow bar, tow line, dolly, tilt bed, or other means.

J. “TOW TRUCK SERVICE” means the function and any ancillary operations associated with recovering,

removing, and towing a vehicle and its load from a highway or other place by means of a tow truck.

Page 16 of 25

K. “TOWING OPERATIONS” means providing tow truck services for compensation within the limits of
Herriman City whether or not the towing extends beyond the Herriman City limits. Towing operations also
include the storage of a towed vehicle pending its return to the owner thereof by the person or agent who
towed the vehicle.

6-7-2: OPERATIONS

A. An owner or person in lawful possession or control of real property may, to the extent authorized by this
section, tow away or immobilize any unauthorized vehicle located on the property. An unauthorized vehicle
is any vehicle parked or stopped in violation of private property parking regulations which govern parking
for authorized tenants and visitors or which restrict parking in a loading zone, handicapped zone, fire lane,
or a no parking zone.

B. No towing or parking enforcement business or its agent may conduct a towing or parking enforcement
operation unless:

1. Authorized by the owner of the private property on which the vehicle is located, or the owner's
agent; or

2. Requested by a peace officer or by an order of a person acting on behalf of a law enforcement
agency.

C. Except as otherwise ordered by a peace officer or a person acting on behalf of a law enforcement agency, at
least 15 (fifteen) minutes prior to commencing a towing operation without the vehicle owner's knowledge,
the tow operator shall report their intent to tow the vehicle to the Herriman City Police dispatcher. This report
shall include the vehicle's description, including its vehicle identification number and license number or other
identification number issued by a state agency, and the name of the person, firm, or corporation impounding
or towing the vehicle. After performing a towing operation without the vehicle owner's knowledge, the tow
operator shall report the towing of the vehicle to the Herriman City police dispatcher within the soonest of
one hour or immediately upon arriving at the place of storage or impound of the vehicle. The report shall
include:

1. The vehicle's description, including its vehicle identification number and license number or
other identification number issued by a state agency;

2. The name of the person, firm, or corporation impounding or towing the vehicle;
3. The name of the person who requested removal of the vehicle;

4. The date, time, and location of the vehicle's removal;

5. Reason(s) for removal of the vehicle;

6. The location where the subject vehicle will be kept; and

7. A telephone number staffed twenty-four hours a day, which an owner can call to arrange for
release of the vehicle.

D. No towing or parking enforcement business or its agent may conduct a towing or parking enforcement
operation other than on a vehicle which has been continuously parked for more than seventy-two hours,
unless:

1. “No parking" areas, restricted parking spaces, and visitor parking spaces, if any, are clearly
marked with signage that complies with the requirements of Utah Code Ann. § 72-9-603 and is
installed in such a manner as to provide adequate notice to those utilizing the parked area,

Page 17 of 25

including marking of the boundaries between the subject parking lot and any adjoining parking
lot owned by another person; and

2. A-conspictoussign posted at_orimmediately-adjacentte;each entrance to-the-property-provides
notice thatimauthorized-yehicles-maybetowed fromthe parking lot or-inimebitized-Each such
sign described in the previous section shall:

a, — Be-atleast eighteen-inches-by-twentyfour-inches-in-size:

b.a._Give warning, in large reflective lettering, that unauthorized vehicles may be towed
or immobilized;

e-b. Give the name and telephone number of business(es) authorized to conduct a towing
or parking enforcement operation on the property;

é&c. State the fees charged for towing and parking enforcement operations; and

e-d._ Be posted within approximately five feet of each entrance to a parking lot.

(1) For purposes of this subsection, a "parking lot entrance" shall mean any
access allowing the entrance or exit of a vehicle between a private parking
lot and a city street unless such access is not the property of the parking lot
owner. In such case, parking lot entrance shall mean:

(A) The intersection of the parking lot property line and the property
line of the access point; or

(B) Any privately owned road connected to a public right of way
leading to the entrance of a parking lot located on private property;

(2) A sign posted directly over a driveway leading to an underground lot shall be
deemed to meet the location requirements of this subsection;

(3) If signs cannot be posted within five feet from the entrance to a parking lot
for reasons of practical difficulty (such as the necessity of drilling a hole
through concrete, removing a tree or shrubs, or because of an immediately
adjacent private driveway not owned by the owner of the parking lot), a sign
may be placed as close as reasonably practicable to the parking lot entrance.
However, no sign shall be further than thirty feet from the edge of the curb
that borders the private property.

No towing or parking enforcement business or its agent may conduct a towing or parking enforcement
operation regarding a vehicle located on private property, unless:

1. The owner of the subject real property or the owner's agent:
a. Conforms to the requirements of subsection E(1)(b) and F of this section;

b. _ Discloses, in writing, to each tenant of the property when the tenant first occupies the
property:

(1) The rules which govern the use of parking areas:

(2) That parking a vehicle in violation of such rules may subject the vehicle to a
towing or parking enforcement operation; and

Page 18 of 25

(3) That the tenant may contest a towing or parking enforcement operation as
provided in this chapter;

The towing or parking enforcement business or its agent conducting the operation:

a. Except as otherwise provided in subsection F of this section, receives from the
property owner or the owner's agent, who shall not be affiliated in any way within the
towing or parking enforcement business, a written or telephonic request for each
towing or parking enforcement of a particular vehicle;

b. Posts a copy of the towing or parking enforcement business's fee schedule in a
prominent place at the location where vehicles are released from storage; and

c. Maintains personnel authorized to release any vehicle to its owner twenty-four hours
each day and who can respond within one hour of a request for release of a vehicle;

The towing or parking enforcement business employee who conducts, or attempts to conduct,
a towing or parking enforcement operation:

a. Wears either:

(1) A readily identifiable shirt, blouse, or other top article of clothing with the
name of the business and the first name of the employee contained thereon
and readable from a distance of six feet; or

(2) A prominently visible identification badge on the front of employee's
clothing with the name of the business and the first name of the employee
contained thereon and readable from a distance of six feet;

b. Possess evidence of:

(1) Either a written or telephonic towing or parking enforcement request form
the property owner or the owner's agent, or the contract required by
subsection F of this section and a license or certification as a Herriman City
towing or parking enforcement business, and;

(2) The fee schedule required by subsection E(b)(ii) of this section;

c. Upon request, provides the name and telephone number of the property owner or
owner's agent, and shows the evidence required by subsection E(c)(ii) of this section
to:

(1) A person whose vehicle is subject to the towing or parking enforcement
operation; and

(2) Any law enforcement officer;

d. Prior to mechanically connecting a vehicle to a tow truck or booting a vehicle,
documents, through the use of date and time stamped digital photography or digital
video, the precise nature of the violation of the private property parking regulations;
and

e. Upon booting a vehicle, places a notice on the driver's door window which indicates:

(1) In large letters (twenty-four to thirty-six font size), "This vehicle has been
booted";

Page 19 of 25

(2) The name and telephone number of the towing or parking enforcement
business and the name of the person that immobilized the vehicle;

(3) A telephone number, staffed twenty-four hours a day, which the vehicle
owner may call to arrange for release of the vehicle;

(4) Applicable fees; and
(5) The following statement:

(A) A towing or parking enforcement business that tows or boots a
vehicle unlawfully may be subject to criminal and civil penalties as
provided in this Chapter. A person whose vehicle is towed or
booted shall be entitled, upon request, to the name and telephone
number of the owner of the property or owner's agent where the
tow or boot occurred.

f. | Upon towing a vehicle, takes the vehicle directly to a storage lot that complies with
the requirements of state law, this section, and Herriman City Code;

g. Once the vehicle is mechanically connected to the tow truck, the tow operator may
only disconnect the vehicle:

(1) Upon arrival at the storage lot;
(2) To release the vehicle to the driver, owner, or owner's agent; or

(3) To abandon the tow and leave the vehicle where the tow operator originally
found it.

h. Any towing or parking enforcement business or its agent conducting a towing or
parking enforcement operation of a vehicle located on private property shall:

(1) Maintain the documentation required under this Section for no less than one
year;

(2) Make available, prior to taking payment for the towing or parking
enforcement operation, a copy of the documentation required under this
Section, upon request by any of the following:

(A) The driver or owner of the vehicle that was subject to the towing or
parking enforcement operation, or the owner's agent; and

(B) Any law enforcement officer; and
i. Prior to taking any payment related to a towing or parking enforcement operation,
provide the driver or owner of the towed or booted vehicle, or the owner's authorized
agent, with a statement of the owner's rights regarding towing and parking

enforcement operations that has been approved by Herriman City administration.

F. The written or telephonic request required under subsection E of this section prior to initiating a towing or
parking enforcement operation is not required if all of the following requirements are met:

Page 20 of 25

1. The towing or parking enforcement business or its agent conducting the towing or parking
enforcement operation has been designated as a Herriman City qualified towing or parking
enforcement business by the city administrator, or the city administrator's designee;

a.

A licensed towing or parking enforcement business may seek this qualification by
completing and signing a written application on a form provided by the city.

The licensed applicant business may be granted this qualification upon satisfying the
city administrator, or the city administrator's designee, that the applicant's business
operations comply with all of the contractual obligations required under this Chapter.

2. The owner of the property where the towing or parking enforcement operation takes place
complies with all the contractual obligations required under this Chapter and the Code; and

3. The towing and parking enforcement business and the private property owner must have, and
comply with, a contract that contains provisions documenting and requiring all of the following:

a.

A right of appeal to the property owner by the owner or operator of the vehicle booted
or towed;

The right of the property owner to grant the appeal and waive part or all of the fees
and charges incurred by the appellant;

A documented plan for providing adequate visitor parking;

Reasonable, as determined by the city administrator or the city administrator's
designee, temporary permit parking on a 24/7 availability basis for any property
where the owner requires permit parking;

Signage that, in the city administrator or city administrator's designee's reasonable
opinion, provides fair notice to all persons of all limitations on parking on the

property; and

A limitation of the towing or parking enforcement operator's total maximum fees and
charges for booting or otherwise immobilizing a vehicle to sixty dollars and the total
maximum fees and charges for towing a vehicle to one hundred seventy-five dollars,
including the first day of storage (subsequent days of storage may be charged in
accordance with the rules and rates set forth in rule R909-19-13, Utah administrative
code).

4. Itis a violation of this section to conduct a towing or parking enforcement operation without a
written or telephonic request pursuant to this Chapter if either party to a contract described of
this Section fails to comply with a contract provision required hereunder.

5. Appeals by towing or parking enforcement operators or property owners of decisions by the
city administrator, or the city administrator's designee, made under this subsection may be
appealed to the city council.

A booted vehicle may not be removed from the site sooner than two hours after the time of booting.

Except as otherwise provided in this section, a towing or parking enforcement business conducting a towing
or parking enforcement operation pursuant to this section shall release the subject vehicle to its owner or
agent immediately upon payment of applicable fees authorized by this section or by rule R909-19, Utah
administrative code, as amended.

Page 21 of 25

1. The towing or parking enforcement business shall accept payment offered in cash or by major
credit card but shall not be obligated to accept checks or payment in coins and shall maintain
sufficient cash on hand to make change of up to forty dollars.

2. Every towing or parking enforcement business providing services pursuant to this subsection
shall post in a conspicuous place upon its business premises a true copy of this section.

3. A parking enforcement business shall be limited to a maximum Immobilization/booting fee,
per vehicle, of fifty percent of the maximum towing rate for non-consent tows as provided in
rule R909-19-12, Utah administrative code, and may not charge any other fee for a parking
enforcement operation. If an immobilized vehicle is towed, no fee of any kind relating to
booting may be charged in addition to towing, storage, or other applicable fees. If a vehicle is
towed or booted unlawfully, no fee shall be payable.

4. Ifthe vehicle owner or agent arrives at the vehicle before the towing or parking enforcement
operator has mechanically connected the vehicle to a tow truck or booting device, the towing
or parking enforcement operator shall:

a. Not continue to tow or boot the vehicle; and

b. Not be entitled to tow or boot the vehicle or to charge any fee whatsoever if the
vehicle is promptly removed from the premises.

5. Ifa tow truck is mechanically connected to a vehicle, the tow truck shall be in possession of the
vehicle. If the vehicle owner or agent attempts to retrieve the vehicle before the vehicle is
removed from the property, the maximum towing or parking enforcement fee shall not exceed
fifty percent of the posted rate schedule.

6. No parking enforcement fee, other than fees authorized by this subsection, shall be charged as
a condition of releasing a booted vehicle.

7, A vehicle shall be released immediately upon payment of any required fees authorized by this
section.

I. Property owners, managers, or their agents shall not receive any consideration whatsoever from any towing
or parking enforcement business in exchange for utilizing such business's services to tow or boot
unauthorized vehicles from the owner's property or for entering into a services agreement with a towing or
parking enforcement business.

J. Towing damages. Any person acting to remove or otherwise disturb any vehicle parked, stalled, or otherwise
left on privately owned or controlled property, and any person owning or controlling such private property,
or either of them, shall be liable to the owner, owner's agent, or driver of a vehicle, or each of them, for
consequential and incidental damages arising from any interference with the ownership or use of such vehicle
which does not comply with the requirements of this section.

K. Boot removal. Upon receiving a request by the vehicle owner or owner's agent to remove a boot the towing
or parking enforcement business shall respond and remove the boot within thirty minutes.

6-7-3: ROTATION LIST

A. The chief of police or his designee shall create and administer a rotation list comprised of those towing
companies who comply with all the terms of the Herriman City Code and are authorized to respond to calls
for service by the police department. One slot on the rotation list shall be given to each compliant company.
To ensure a fair distribution of calls for service, however, companies with different names but which utilize
the same employees, trucks, business offices or impound yards shall be treated as one company for purposes
of the rotation list, and shall only have one slot on the list.

Page 22 of 25

B. In addition to any other requirements set forth in the Herriman City Code or required by federal or state law,
a towing company, which has been placed on the rotation list, shall:

Respond to a call for service from the police department and arrive on scene as soon as
practicable after receiving the call for service. In the event that the company fails to arrive
within a reasonable time after receipt of the call for service, the police department shall be
permitted to secure the services of an alternate company from the rotation list. The late-
responding company shall not be entitled to any fee for a late response or costs and expenses
incurred as a result thereof. Any company that fails to respond within the reasonable timeframe
will be placed at the bottom of the rotation list and may be subject to temporary or permanent
removal from the rotation list. Only those tow truck companies that have been called from the
rotation list may respond to a public safety request. Towing companies that have not been
specifically called may not respond on behalf of another tow truck company, regardless of the
circumstances. Responding tow truck companies that have not been called, shall be placed on
the bottom of the rotation list.

Have a vehicle storage facility within the-thirty (30) minutes driving distance of city corporate
limits that has a fenced area, enclosed yard, or building. No-vehiclesmay-be-movedte-ateeation
which-is-not-withinthe-eitytimitswithoutthe prietconsent of the-owneror-operatorof the
vehiele-Such vehicle storage facility must comply with all state requirements.

Have the capability of transporting abandoned, inoperable, and large vehicles. Any towing
company that has the capability of transporting abandoned, inoperable, or large vehicles but
refuses to do so may be subject to temporary or permanent removal from the rotation list.

Clean up any mess, debris, rubble or any other items that may be located on the roadway or in
the immediate vicinity of the location from which an abandoned or inoperable vehicle is to be
towed. To achieve this requirement, and in addition to any other state or administrative
requirements, the tow truck must be equipped with adequate equipment and materials to clean
up the area. Failure to clean up the area is a violation of this section and can result in being
removed from the rotation list.

Ensure that all its authorized agents agree to follow the instructions or orders of a public safety
officer at the towing scene.

Comply with all federal, state, and local requirements governing parking enforcement and
towing companies.

C. A towing company may voluntarily request in writing to be removed from the rotation list. A towing company
may lose the privilege of being on the rotation list and subject to removal from the rotation list for up to a
twelve-month period for any of the following reasons:

1.

2.

Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter or the Herriman City Code;
A conviction of any of the towing company's employees of a crime involving moral turpitude,
theft, narcotics, illegal drugs, DUI or property damage. A conviction includes the entry of a

plea in abeyance; or

Being the subject of three or more complaints received within a ninety-day period that are later
substantiated. A complaint is substantiated when the following occurs:

a. The complaint has been lodged against a towing company by the owner or the owner's
agent of a motor vehicle that was towed or by a police officer;

b. The police department has, within ten days of receiving the complaint, given the
towing company written notice of the complaint that contains information about the

Page 23 of 25

vehicle that was towed, the date, time and place of the tow, and a statement of the
complaint including the federal, state or local law or regulation that the towing
company is alleged to have violated;

c. The complaint has been investigated by the chief of police or his designee after having
given the towing company ten days to respond in writing to the complaint; and

d. The chief of police or his designee has determined the towing company violated any
federal, state, or local law or rule regulating towing companies and has given the
towing company written notice of his decision.

D. Prior to removing a towing company from the rotation list for any of the reasons listed above, the chief of
police or his designee shall give the towing company written notice of his decision to remove the company
from the rotation list. The notice shall contain the basis for the decision; notice that the towing company will
be removed from the rotation list, if applicable; and the conditions under which the towing company will be
reinstated on the rotation list, if applicable.

E. Any towing company that has been removed from the rotation list pursuant to this article may appeal to the
city administrator or his designee the decision of the police chief or his designee's decision to remove the
towing company from the rotation list. Any appeal must be in writing and filed with the city administrator or
his designee within ten days of receiving notice of the removal. Within ten days of receiving a notice of
appeal the city administrator or his designee shall render a decision upholding the removal or reinstating the
towing company on the rotation list.

F. Removal from the rotation list shall be for a ninety-day period for the first removal within a three-year period.
Removal from the towing rotation list shall be for one year for the second removal from the rotation list
within three years of any prior removal. The date of removal shall be the later of ten days after the chief of
police or his designee sends a notice of removal or the date the city administrator or his designee renders a
decision in response to an appeal. Any towing company that has been removed from the rotation list may file
a written request with the chief of police or his designee to be placed back on the list no sooner than ten days
prior to the expiration of the removal period. The chief of police shall place the company back on the towing
rotation list upon a showing that all previous problems for which the company has been removed have been
corrected, and the company certifies it is willing and able to comply with all the requirements for being on
the rotation list.

6-7-4: PENALTIES
A. It shall be a Criminal Infraction for any person to:

1. Tamper with or remove from a vehicle a lawfully installed boot without the authorization of the
towing or parking enforcement operator who applied the boot, which authorization shall not be
withheld in violation of state or local law; and

2. To disconnect a vehicle mechanically connected to a tow truck without the authorization of the
towing or parking enforcement operator lawfully in possession of the vehicle, which
authorization shall not be withheld in violation of state or local law.

B. Violations of Section 6-7-2 or 6-7-3 by any person, business, firm, partnership, association, joint venture, or
corporation is a Class C misdemeanor.

C. Any person, business, firm, partnership, association, joint venture, or corporation that is convicted of a
violation of Section 6-7-2 or 6-7-3 is guilty of a class B misdemeanor if that same person, business, firm,
partnership, association, joint venture, or corporation has a prior conviction of Section 6-7-2 or 6-7-3 of this
Chapter.

D. Civil penalties. In addition to any other penalty, a civil action for damages or to abate a violation of this
chapter may be brought by any aggrieved person.

Page 24 of 25

|. A person who authorizes, tows, or immobilizes a vehicle from private property in violation of
the provisions of this chapter is liable in a civil action for a penalty of up to five hundred dollars
as the court may determine. A civil action under this subsection may not be commenced later
than one hundred eighty days after occurrence of the violation.

2. Lack of compliance with the requirements of subsections D, E, and F of Section 6-7-2 shall be
prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.

3. The remedies provided for in this subsection shall be cumulative and not exclusive.

E. Nothing in this section shall preclude prosecution of any crime, including, but not limited to, criminal
mischief, fraud, and theft.

Page 25 of 25

OSI$ woMeyuy PN MO} B WO IpOTYSa v SuNoouUOAsIp AlNMelUN | (ZT) V)F-L-9
OSTS wonoe.yUy Joo poyfeisur AyjnyMe] e SUIAOWISI JO SuLOdue] | (1 V)b-L-9
00€$ aN ASNAIIO LNAINOASANS AO GNOOAS IS! UONPIOI Sumo} Jo TONE[OLA €-L°9
00¢$ OW ASNAIIO LSU IS! UoNeIOr SuIMO} FO UONEIOTA €-L-9
o0E$ an ASNATAIO LNANOASANS YO GNOOAS voneiado Fumo} A|MEjU| 7-1-9
00z$ OW ASNATIO LSULr vonessdo suimoy ryMeyuyy C-L-9
01S uOnIey Uy quod supped yo BurAdoo [rymerayy (Q)81-9-9
001$ uonseyuy wuied Sunjed jo saysuen sodomdwy (3)81-9-9
OOT$ wornoR.gUy wuniod roy Arpiqisija quasaiday jase (G)8T-9-9
OOT$ wOT}OR. yu] Bore WuLod wt sunjied [nymeyur) (V)81-9-9
0018 uonoeyuy SULed} Joye Louruexy SULBaH SUOHEIOLA [IATD & JO Japlo/ssurpuy oi uM Ajduiod 0} Suiieg | (PNG) VS-9
00I$ WOnseTUy UOTORYUI JO SOT]OU & jS9]U09 0} BULBOY & Jz Iwadde oj Sursnyou 10 Sure; | (€Nd)6-WS-9
00Is uonoe.guy 9 SPILL Jopun uonov.gur Jo 2onou e oj puodsar 07 Sursnjar 10 Suyprey (ZG)6-VS-9
O0IS wONSeAU] ynejap yur OF O7 UONSeIZUT Jo SoOUe BUIMOTTY | (1 G6-VS-9
SZ wore guy SOPOIYOA JBUOTRIINAI JO *syeog *siodumed ‘ssaj1e} “SeWOY 10}0UI JO sunyied Tymeyuy 7I-S-9
$$ WOHOByU] Ssedsa.l foTYoA, (V)0I-S-9
SZ$ worRyUy aPiysa suture IUTEW Jo SuLtedas Jo asodind Joy Sunped ryMepury 8-S-9
CzS WOHOBU] d1qBITBAR st Sunpied joons-j7O UaYyM JooNs ay uo Sunpeg L-$-9
Sz$ uonoeyUy s$so00e8 AQUaBIOUID Ue SB SOATaS Jeu) ABMOALIp JO peos SyBALid & UO SuLyIeg 9°-S-9
Sz$ uonoRzu] sudjs s1erdoidde Xq panied wey) sosu0] pouiod e Joy Sunpeg (D)s=S-9
S$ uonseyuy SmoY pZ UeTP 193UO] Jo pouisd & 10; Tunpieg ()s-S-9
Sz uoHoey uy Sunjed sajum [nyMepuy) (¥)s-s-9
S7$ won yu] ogyen sunonnsq¢ 75-9
67S uonoe yu] Supjied apsue sodoiduy €-S-9
67s uonoR.gUy TANS [ELOLe/10}99]]09 & UO Joos [ENUDPISAl B UO d[DIYOA [BIDIWILOD & SULIEg (q)z-S-9
S7$ UOTSeyU] qind pale YIM payseul d9ejd Aur ye sulyeg (7)1-s-9
7$ WOHIeFU] Jeor]s dy} UO OYJeN JO MOT at ayisoddo sunyeg ODI-s-9
Sz woe Uy S2dIAap [oNUOS-syJeQ Aq pariqiyo.d ary dovjd Aue ye supe (f)I-s-9
S7$ uoT}Oe AU] UONEBIS SIT] BO} SOURQUS 9q]} JO opis ayisoddo 9U} UO 10 DOT}e}s ol B O} SOUR.QUS OU} FO 199} OZ UITIM ouTyled (DI-s-9
Sz uONoeIJU] SUISSOID PeoTe Aue JO S|Ies JSaIOU SU} JO 199j OS UngIM Sued (H)I-S-9
Sts woroe.gU] SdLAap [OmUOS oyJeN Aue O} yovoidde a1p Woy 199} OE UPI Bunped (D)I-s-9
7s uOorNeyUy WPMapIs & SSOlOR IO Uo Sulyeg (DI-S-9
Szs uonoe su] JURIPAY uly & JO 199} ST UMPIM JO Jo joy ur Bunpieg (a)1-$-9
ScS uOT}OBAU] UOTOSsIOIUI UB FO Jeaj OE UIIM SuDyIeY ()I-s-9
Sc$ uonoRy uy] TPMSSOID B JO J99j OZ UNPIM supyeg (D)1-S-9
Sts uoHoeyUy wd99:¢ pur weQD:g UoSMjeq xogyTeur e JO 199} QT UIWIM Sulyeg (a)I-s-9
Szs uonseyuy Aa|[e 10 ABMOALIp a1eALA e Jo OOF ¢ UII SuDpeg (W)I-S-9
SZIS uote. Uy SOLAOP Sx!IG UOISSAIdWIOS SUTsUd JO Osn [NyMeTUL] L-€-9
slg uondeyuy MATA JO UOHINNSGO (V)9-€-9
OsT$ uOndeU] SuBis dyjen Surseueg S-£-9
S7I$ uonoe. Guy TONOSIS]UT SUIPIOAY v7£-9
any uonseyuy UOTSI][OO JUSSIOON €-€-9
SzI$ uoTjoRyUT mnoyoo] Jadoiduy T-E-9
oss UOT}IBAUT SPOTYSA JO [OI]UOS YIM IOUdIOpIOJUT I-€-9
StF uoMoe yu] SOOTAAP [OUOS 94F2. pajoosa AjjnyMe] Adgo 0} smNje7 €-7-9
AaAVANIA THAT ASNAAAO NOILdIaOSAd AdOD

9 WILLL


