                                                           Exhibit A

The following excerpt from Herriman City Code has been selected to provide context for the proposed amendment. Only the strike-
through or underlined portions of the text are amended by this Ordinance. All other regulations contained within Chapter 16 of Title
10 Land Development Code shall remain in effect.


10-3-5 DEFINITIONS, GENERALLY:
Flag Lot: A lot in an agricultural or residential zone that does not have required frontage on a public street,
and which has two (2) distinct parts: the flag, which contains the buildable area and is located behind
another lot; and the staff, which connects the flag to the street, provides the only street frontage for the lot,
and contains less than the minimum lot frontage requirement for the zone.

10-29-18: FLAG LOTS
A.     Purpose: Flag lots are intended to apply only to exceptionally deep or odd-shaped parcels that are
   isolated from public streets and would be difficult to develop or utilize in any other way. An applicant
   shall demonstrate that a flag lot is the most appropriate development option and that it will not detract
   from the surrounding neighborhood.
B.     Minimum Requirements: A flag lot shall meet the following minimum requirements:
   1. The staff portion of a flag lot shall front on and be contiguous to a dedicated local public street. Flag
       lots shall not front on a collector or arterial street.
   2. The minimum width of the staff portion of a flag lot shall be twenty-five feet (2025') to
       accommodate the required drivable surface, drive approach, utilities, fencing, and landscaping as
       needed. On properties where the length of the staff is greater than one hundred fifty feet (150'), the
       width of the staff shall be no less than twenty-five feet (25') of drivable surface unless otherwise may
       be increased if recommended by the City Engineer and Fire Marshal authority having jurisdiction for
       fire services and approved by the Planning Commission.
   3. The maximum length of the staff portion of a flag lot shall be two hundred twenty feet (220') unless
       otherwise approved by the Planning Commission upon recommendation of the unified fire authority
       authority having jurisdiction for fire services.
   4. The flag lot shall have a hard-surfaced driveway from a public street to the required parking area for
       the flag lot. Adequate provisions shall be made for driveway drainage of the driveway, such as curb
       and gutter, landscaped berms bermings, or swales, and fencing.
   5. A flag lot shall not be created as part of a subdivision where there are more than two (2) lots in the
       subdivision or from an illegally divided lot or parcel.
   6. A flag lot shall not gain access via an easement on an adjacent property.
   7. No building or construction, except for driveways, shall be allowed on the staff portion of a flag lot
       unless the minimum width thereof is the same or greater than the minimum width for a lot as
       allowed by the zone in which the flag lot is located (excluding entrance features and streetlights).
   8. The front side of the flag portion yard of a flag lot shall be deemed to be that side nearest to the
       dedicated public street upon which the staff portion fronts, unless otherwise determined by staff on a
       case-by-case basis the Planning Commission.
