HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2021-26

AN ORDINANCE OF THE HERRIMAN CITY COUNCIL APPROVING AN
AMENDMENT TO TITLE 12 OF THE HERRIMAN CITY CODE REGARDING
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION REGULATION

WHEREAS, the Herriman City Council (“Council”) met in regular meeting on
September 22, 2021 to consider, among other things, approving an amendment to Title 12 of the
Herriman City Code regarding Flood Damage Prevention Regulation; and

WHEREAS, the Council is authorized to enact ordinances, codify such ordinances, and
make amendments to such codifications as set forth in Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-707; and

WHEREAS, the Council previously adopted regulations for flood damage prevention,
which regulations were previously adopted as Title 12 of the Herriman City Code; and

WHEREAS, updates to certain State and Federal flood prevention regulations have
warranted an amendment to the City’s Title 12 regarding flood damage prevention; and

WHEREAS, the Council has considered and discussed these proposed changes to Title
12 of the Herriman City Code and hereby finds that it is in the best interests of the public to
adopt the proposed changes to Title 12.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Herriman City Council as follows:
1. Title 12 of the Herriman City Code, attached hereto as Exhibit A, is hereby adopted.

2. The City Recorder is authorized to publish the updated Title 12 upon passage and
publication of this Ordinance.

3. This ordinance assigned no. 2021-26; shall take effect immediately upon passage and
acceptance as provided herein.

PASSED AND APPROVED by the Council of Herriman, Utah, this 22nd day of
September, 2021.

ATTEST:


TITLE 12
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION REGULATIONS

CHAPTER 1

FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND METHODS 6£ REDUCING FLOOD-LOSSES
SECTION:

12-1-1: FindingsSTATUTORY AUTHORIZATION

42-1-2:Statement Of Purpese

The Legislature of the State of Utah has in Utah Code Unannotated_ 10-3-701 delegated the responsibility of local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the city council of Herriman
City, UT, does ordain as follows:

The City of Herriman elects to comply with the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (P.L. 90-
488. as amended). The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) is a voluntary program administered by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). a component of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and Herriman
City’s community officials have elected to join the program, participate, and enforce this Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance and the requirements and regulations of the NFIP. The NFIP, established in the aforesaid act, provides that
areas of the city having a special flood hazard be identified by FEMA, and that floodplain management measures be
applied in such flood hazard areas. Furthermore, Herriman City may elect to administer the Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance to areas not identified as Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHAs) by FEMA on the community’s effective
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), if the community has documentation to support that there is an inherent risk of
flooding in such areas.

12-1-1: FINDINGS:

A. The flood hazard areas of Herriman City are subject to periodic inundation which results in potential loss of
life and property;, health and safety hazards;; disruption of commerce and governmental services;; and

extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief;; all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety and general welfare of the inhabitants of Herriman City.

B.__ These potential flood losses are created by theone or more of the following:

|. The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights

and velocities-and bythe:

4.2. The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous to other lands
because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood

damage-{Ord-09-27,9-3-2009}: or

3, Uses deemed unsuitable for floodplain areas or that do not account for the increased flood risk.

12-1-2: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:

It is the purpose of this title to promote the public health, safety and general welfare;_of the inhabitants of Herriman
City; and to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:

A. Protect human life and health;

Page 1 of 20

B. Minimize damage to public infrastructure, including but not limited to utilities, streets, and bridges that are
susceptible to flooding:

C. Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
B.D. Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;

G-E.Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding and generally undertaken at the
expense of the general public;
A.—Minimize prolonged-business-interruptons:

Minimize-damage to-publictaciities-and anilities, such-as-water and gas-mains; electric;
telephone, and-sewerlines;-streets and bridgestocated in-floodplains;

D-.F.Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of flood prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blight areas; and

E.G. Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood area-{Ord—09-279-3-

2009}

12-1-3: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:

In order to accomplish i¢Sthe purposes described above, this title uses the following methods:
Restrict
A. Restricts or prehibitprohibits uses that are dangerous to health, safety or property in times of flood, or which
uses cause excessive increases in flood heights or velocities;
B. Requires that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be protected against flood
damage at the time of initial construction;

Control

C. Controls the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers; which are
involved in the accommodation of floodwaters;

Contre}

D. Controls filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may increase flood damage;
Prevent
E. Prevents or Fegutateregulates the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert floodwaters or

which may increase flood hazards to other lands. {Ord—09-27,-9-3-2009}

CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS

SECTION:
42-2-1-WordsAndPhrasesDefined

12-2-1: WORDS AND PHRASES DEFINED

Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be interpreted to give them the meaning
they have in common usage and to give this title its most reasonable application:

A. “ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING:Floeding” means flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan

or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high velocity flows; active
processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.

Page 2 of 20

“APEX+4\” means a point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path of the major
stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan flooding can occur.

“AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING:A” means a designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or YQAR/AH zone on
a community-flood insurance rate mapcommunity’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a
ene! percent (4%}chance-or greater annual chance of flooding to an average depth of ene! to

three3 feet-(3} where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet
flow.

“AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD+¥he” means the land in the flood plainflood plain within a
community subject to a eRe! percent {4%}or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area
may be designated as ZoneZone A on the flood hazard boundary map-—{FHBM}. After detailed
tatemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, #6HeZone A usually is refined
into ZoneSZones A, AO, AH, Al-30, AE, AH; AO;A4-99-V0,-A99, AR. AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO,

AR/AH, AR/A, or V1-30, VE, or V. For purposes of these regulations, the term “special flood hazard
area” is synonymous in meaning with the phrase “area of special flood hazard”.

“BASE FLOOD:Fhe” means_a flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year.

“BASE FLOOD ELEVATION” or “BFE” means the water surface elevation of the l-percent-annual-

E.G.

chance flood event. It is the height in relation to mean sea level expected to be reached by the waters of
the base flood at pertinent points in the floodplains of coastal and riverine areas. It is also the elevation
shown on the FIRM and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones A, AE, AH,
A1-A30, AR, VI-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from the flood that has a
|-percent chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given year.

G. “BASEMENT:Any” means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on
all sides. A walkout basement that does not require a step up to grade is not considered a basement.

“CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION” or “CLOMR” means FEMA's comment on a proposed

project that would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic and/or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding
source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective BFEs, and/or
the SFHA. The letter does not revise an effective map: it indicates whether the project, if built as proposed,
would be recognized by FEMA.

“CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL” or “CLOMR-F” means FEMA's

GJ.

HK.

EL.

comment on a proposed structure or property. The letter does not revise an effective map; it indicates
whether the project, if builtas proposed, would be removed from the floodplain.

“CRITICAL FEATURE:4m” means an integral and readily identifiable part of a flood protection system,
without which the flood protection provided by the entire system would be compromised.

“DEVELOPMENT:—Any”_means any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,

excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials.

“ELEVATED BUILDING~” means

Anonbasement

|. anon-basement building} built, in the case of a building in ZeHeESZone A1-30, AE, A, A99,
AR, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the elevated floorerinthe-ease-ofa

building in-zones V1-30, Vii or V, te have the bottom of the lowest

Page 3 of 20


éM,

KN

horizontal structure member-of the elevated floor-elevated above the ground
level by means of pilings, columns (pestspost and piers), or shear walls parallel to the
fleerflow of the water; and2} adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity
of the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood. 42

4.2. in the case of 40HeSa building in Zone Al-30, AE, A, A99, AR. AO, AH, B, C, X and D,

s a building elevated by means of fill or solid
foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of
floodwatersflood waters.
meeting the definition-of “elevated building”. even though the lower area is-enclosed-by means
of breakaway walls. if-the-breakaway—walls met-the standards-of section-603(e)(5)-of the
national food-insurance program resulations,

“EXISTING CONSTRUCTION:F6Fr” means, for the purposes of determining rates, structures for which

the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the FIRM, or before January 1, 1975,
for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing construction" may also be referred to as "existing
structures”.

“EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION:-” means a manufactured home

L.O

park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured
homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets,
and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date of the
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.

“EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION}Fhe”

means the preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which
the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets,
and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).

“FEMA” means the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

Q.

“FLOOD” or “FLOODING” means

L. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas
from:

a.__ The overflow of inland or tidal waters

b. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.

No

Mudslides (i.e.. mudflows) that are proximately caused by flooding as defined in this ordinance
and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas. as
when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.

3. The collanse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of water as a result
of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical
levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water level in a natural body of water.
accompanied by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or
an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in
flooding as defined in this ordinance.

Page 4 of 20

M.R._ “FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP-{” or “FIRM}-4n” an official map of a community, on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk
premium zones applicable to the community, and all subsequent amendments and revisions thereto.

N.S. “FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY:-Fhe- official -eport-previded by_the federal emergency
management—agency—_The—_report—contains—"_ means _an_ examination, evaluation, and

determination of flood prefiles;hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevation-of
the-base-elevations, or an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or

flood-as-welLas-the flood boundary-floodway-map-related erosion hazards.

B-—“FLOODPLAIN” or “FLOOD OR-FLOQODING:A-general-andtemporarycondition-of partial-or-complete
inundation-of nermallydry-PRONE AREA” means any land areasfren:

4+—Fhe-everflew-efiniand-ortidalwaters-

0.7. Fheunustaland -apid accumulation or runoff of stu-face watersarea susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source: (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).

€, FEOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those-physical-structuralworkstorawhichfinds-have-been-authorized,
appropriated-and-expended and awhichhave-been-constructed-speciticallyto-modify flooding in-orderto
reduce-the extent of the areas within-a-community subject te-a—specialflood-hazard'-andthe-extentotthe
depths-of associated -Hooding. Such-a-systen-typical by-incehides-hurricane tidal barriers dams. reservoirs,
levees or-dikes. Fhese- specialized Hood modifying works-arethose-constructed_in-comformance with sound
engineering standards.

PU. “FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT:Fhe” means the operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness
plans, flood control works and floodplain management regulations.

Q:V. “FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS:—4oening” means any zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance), andor other applications of any
local, state, or federal police power. The term describes such federal, state, or local regulations, in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.

D-—FLOODPLAIN-OR-FLOOD- PRONE AREA: Any tand-area-susceptible to-being inundated-by-watertrom

any-source (see-definition of Flood Ortlooding)

W. “FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM” means those physical structural works for which funds have been
authorized. appropriated and expended, and which have been constructed specifically to modify flooding
in order to reduce the extent of the areas within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the
extent of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal barriers, dams,
reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance
with sound engineering standards.

RX. “FLOODPROOFING: Any” means any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes
or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real
property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents._Floodproofing can either be
accomplished in the form of dry floodproofing in which the structure is watertight below the levels that
need flood protection, or wet floodproofing in permanent or contingent measures applied to a structure
that prevent or provide resistance to damage from flooding, while allowing floodwaters to enter the
structure or area.

SY. “FLOODWAY-€”_or “REGULATORY FLOODWAY}—The” means the channel of a river or other
watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.

Page 5 of 20


FZ

“FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE:A” means a use which cannot perform its intended purpose

unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only docking facilities,
port facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding
and ship repair facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing facilities.

ULAA. “HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE:¥he” means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior

to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.

¥.BB. “HISTORIC STRUCTURE:4"y” means any structure that is:

ce.

1. Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the
department of interior) or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting
the requirements for individual listing on the national register;

2. Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as contributing to the
historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily determined by
the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;

3. Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic preservation
programs which have been approved by the secretary of interior; or

4, Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities with historic
preservation programs that have been certified either:

a. By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior; or
b. Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved programs.

“LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT” or “LOMA” means an official amendment, by letter, to an effective

DD.

FIRM. A LOMA establishes a property’s location in relation to the SFHA. It is usually issued because a

structure is actually on natural high ground above the BFE.

“LETTER OF MAP REVISION” or “LOMR” means FEMA's modification or revision to an entire or

EE.

portion of the effective FIRM, or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, or both. LOMRs are generally
based_on the implementation of physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics

BFEs, or the SFHA.

“LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL” or “LOMR-F” means FEMA’s amendment, by letter,

to an effective FIRM where fill was brought in or used to elevate a property, portion of property or structure
above the BFE.

WGFF. “LEVEE+A” means a manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed in

accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control or divert the flow of water so as to provide
protection from temporary flooding.

*.GG. “LEVEE SYSTEM:A” means a flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees, and

associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and operated in
accordance with sound engineering practices.

“LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE” or “LAG” means the lowest natural elevation of the ground surface

prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. For an existing structure, it means the lowest
point where the structure and ground touch, including but not limited to attached garages, decks. stairs,
and basement windows.

Page 6 of 20

¥Il__ “LOWEST FLOOR:Fhe” means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An
unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in
an area other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure
is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable nonelevation design requirement of
section 60.3 of the national flood insurance program regulations.

ZJJ._ “MANUFACTURED HOME:” means a structure transportable in one or more sections, which is built
on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when connected
to the required utilities. The term "manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".

AAKK. “MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION:4” means _a parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.

BB-LL. “MEAN SEA LEVEL:¥er” means, for purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base flood elevations shown
on a community's flood insurance rate map are referenced.

CC.MM. “NEW CONSTRUCTION:” means structures for which the start of construction commenced on or
after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any

subsequent improvements to such structures. For the purpesepurposes of determining insurance rates,

structures for which the ““start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of an initial
FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures. [or—floodplain—management—purposes, "new— construction” means
structures for whichthe"startefconstruction” commenced on-or after the effective

date-of atloodplainsnanagement- regstlation adepted bya community and-ineludes
any subsequent improvementsto-such structures,

DD-NN. “NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION:4” means a manufactured home
park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured
homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets,
and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.

OO. “RECREATIONAL VEHICLE” means:
1. A vehicle which is:
a. Built on a single chassis;

b. Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;

c. Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and

d. Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.

2. __A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions.

BE-PP.“START OF CONSTRUCTION:”: For other than new construction or substantial improvements under
the coastal barrier reseurces—actCoastal Barrier Resources Act (pub. 1. 97-348), includes

substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within

Page 7 of 20

one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of
piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it
include excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor
does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not
occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.

FE.QQ. “STRUCTURE:¢—" means, for floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
inehiding—a—culvert, bridge, dam, or_a_gas or liquid storage tank; that is principally
abevegroundabove ground, as well as a manufactured home. For insurance purposes. “structure” does
not mean a recreational vehicle or a park trailer or other similar vehicle, except as described in paragraph
(3) of this definition. or a gas or liquid storage tank. Structure, for insurance purposes, means:

1. __A building with two or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof, which is affixed to a
permanent site;

2. A manufactured home (“a manufactured home,” also known as a mobile home, is a structure:
built on_a permanent chassis. transported to its site in one or more sections. and affixed to a
permanent foundation): or

3. _A travel trailer without wheels built on a chassis and affixed to a permanent foundation, that is
regulated under the community's floodplain management and building ordinances or laws.

GG-RR. “SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE:Damage” means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.

HHL-SS. “SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any” means any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market
value of the structure before "start of construction" of the improvement. This includes structures which
have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:

1. Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary conditions; or

2. Any alteration of a “historic structure"; provided, that the alteration will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a “historic structure".

HTT. “VARIANCE:A” means a grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this title when specific
enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance, therefore, permits construction or
development in a manner otherwise prohibited by this title. (For full requirements, see section 60.6 of the
national flood insurance program regulations.)

UU. “VIOLATION:Fhe” means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the
community—floedplaincommunity's flood plain management regulations. A structure or other
development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance
required in SeetionSections 44 CFR 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4)). or (e)(5) of the
nationalfleedinsurance program regulations-is presumed to be in violation until such time

as that documentation is provided.

Page 8 of 20

VV. “WATER SURFACE ELEVATION:-Fhe” means the height, in relation to the Ratenal
geodetic-verticaldatun{NGVPNorth American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 492911988, (or other
datum, where specified},) of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies. such as the |-percent-annual-

chance flood event, in the floodplainsflood plains of coastal or riverine areas (Ord09-27,9-3-

CHAPTER 3

GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
42-3-3: Development Permit Required

12-3-1: LANDS APPLICABLE:

This title shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard identified by FEMA within the jurisdiction of the-city.
(Ord-09-27, 9-3-2009} Herriman City.

12-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:

The areas of special flood hazard identified by the-federal-emergencymanagement agencyFEMA in a
scientific and engineering report entitled “The Flood Insurance Study For Fhe-Gity-Of Herriman Salt Lake

County, Utah and incorporated areas”, dated September—25,2009November 19, 2021, and all subsequent
amendments and/or revisions thereto, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps and floed beundary-
fleodway-maps-{F RM-andBFEM}FIRMs, and any revisions thereto, are hereby adopted by reference and

declared to be a part of this title (Ord09-27, 9-3-2009}

12-3-3: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED:

A development permit, issued by Herriman City, shall be required to ensure conformance with the provisions of this

title -(Ord-09-27, 9-3-2009}

12-3-4: COMPLIANCE:

No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its existing use changed without full compliance with

the terms of this title and other applicable regulations {Ord09-27, 9-3-2009}
12-3-5: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:

This title is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
However, where this title and another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever

imposes the more stringent flood damage mitigations restrictions shall prevail {Ord-99-274, 9-3-2009)

12-3-6: INTERPRETATION:

Page 9 of 20

In the interpretation and application of this title, all provisions shall be:
A. Considered as minimum requirements;

B. Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and

C. Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state statutes {Ord—09-27,9-3-

2009}

12-3-7: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY

The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be
increased by manmade or natural causes. This title does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard
or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This title shall not create liability on
the part of the community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this

title, or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.{Ord_09-27, 9-3-2009)

12-3-8: SEVERABILITY

If any section, provision, or portion of this title is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the valid portions of the title shall remain and shall not be affected.

12-3-9: COMPLIANCE

No structures or developments, including buildings, recreation vehicles, or manufactured homes or land shall hereafter
be located, altered, or have its existing use changed without full compliance with the terms of this ordinance and other
applicable regulations. Nothing herein shall prevent the Herriman City Council from taking such lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violations.

12-3-10: STOP WORK ORDER

A. Authority. Whenever the floodplain administrator or other community official discovers any work or activity
regulated by this ordinance being performed in a manner contrary to the provision of this ordinance, the
floodplain administrator is authorized to issue a stop work order.

B. Issuance. The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property involved,
or to the owner’s agent, or to the person doing the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work
shall immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order, and the conditions under
Which the cited work will be permitted to resume.

C.__Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop work
order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition. shall
be subject to penalties as prescribed by local or state law including but not limited to the penalties outlined
in Chapter 6: Penalties for Noncompliance

CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
CECE OBL
19:44. Rone! Of Floodalain Administ:
124-2: Duties And Responsibiliti
12-43: Application For Devel Peri

Page 10 of 20

12-4-1; APPOINTMENT OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:

The director-ofcommunity development director is hereby appointed as the floodplain-administraterto
administerFloodplain Administrator and implementis charged with administering and implementing the
provisions of this title and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (nationalfloed—insurance—pregram
regulations}Chapter | National Flood Insurance Program pertaining to floodplain management.{Ord.09-27,
SESE.

12-4-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

A. Uphold the goals of the community and the NFIP to reduce risk when possible and increase the community’s
resistance to future disasters.

A-B. Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to the provisions of this title.

C. Maintain and hold open for public inspection maps that identify and locate the boundaries of the SFHAs to
which this ordinance applies, including. but not limited to, the FIRM.

B:D. Review permit application to determine whether_a proposed building site, including the placement
of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe from flooding.

&.E.Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits required by adoption of this title.

Se PO ee perer eee

Ensure that all necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state, or local governmental agencies

(including sectionSection 404 of the federalwaterpelution-contrelactamendmentslederal

Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 USEU.S.C. 1334 and the Endangered Species Act of
1973) from which prior approval is required.

G. Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is
maintained.

H. Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state coordinating agency, which is NFIP
coordinator, prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. and submit evidence of such notification
to FEMA,

D-1. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.

E_Notifyin-tiverine -situations.-adjacent-communitiesandthe state-coordinating-ageney whichis NFIP
coordinator, priorto-any-alteration-orrelecation-of a-watercourse-and- submit evidence-ofsuchnotifieation
tothe-tederal emergencymanagementagency,

F.—Assurethat-the_floed—carrying—capacity—withinthe—altered_orrelocated—portion—of_any—watercourse is

£.J. When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in-accordance-with-section 12-3-2 of
thistitle the floedplain-administraterby FEMA, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review

and reasonably utilize any base flood elevatieRBFE data and floodway data available from a federal,
state or other source_including data provided by the applicant, in order to administer the provisions of this

ehaptertitle.

Page 11 of 20

F.k. When a regulatory floodway has not been designated,the-floodplain-administratormustrequire
that no new construction, substantial improvements or other development (including fill) shall be permitted
within ZeneSZones A1-30, AE and AEAH on the community FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated

development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any
point within the community.

G.L. Under the provisions of 44 CFR ehapterChapter 1, section 65.12, of the Rational fleed
insuFance-programNFIP regulations, a community may approve certain development in Z68eSZones
A1-30, AE or AH on the eomamunitycommunity’s FIRM which increases the water surface elevation of
the base flood by more than one foot (1'); provided, that the community first appHesmeets the requirements

of Section 65.12 for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA-{conditionaltetter-ofinap
revision} {(Ord_09-27,9-3-2009}FEMA’s CLOMR process.

M._If the project is determined or reasonably believed to cause an adverse effect on the BFE(s), boundaries of
the floodplain or any insurable structures, technical justification for the proposed development shall be
submitted and the community may require a CLOMR or LOMR to be submitted prior to the permit approval
or as a requirement of the permit.

12-4-3; APPLICATION -FORDEVELOPMENTREQUIREMENTS TO SUBMIT NEW TECHNICAL
DATA

A. The property owner or developer shall notify FEMA by submittal of a LOMR within 6 months of project
completion when an applicant had obtained a CLOMR from FEMA or when development altered a
watercourse. modified floodplain boundaries, or modified BFE.

B._ The property owner or developer shall be responsible for preparing technical data to support the CLOMR or
LOMR application and paying any processing or application fees to FEMA. The property owner or developer
is responsible for submitting the CLOMR and LOMR to FEMA and shall provide all necessary data to FEMA
if requested during the review process to ensure the CLOMR or LOMR is issued.

C. The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign the Community Acknowledgement Form,
which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application, until the applicant demonstrates that the project will or has
met the requirements of this ordinance and all applicable state federal, and local laws.

12-4-4; PERMIT_ PROCEDURES:

Application for a development permit shall be presented to the floodplain—administraterFloodplain
Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited to;:

A. Duplicated plans i7-dapHeate-drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed
landscape alterations;.

B. Duplicated plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of existing and proposed
structures, including the placement of manufactured homes-and the location.

AC. Location of the foregoing in relation to areas-of special flood- hazard. Additionally, the
folowing information is required:SPHAs.

B-D. Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement and crawlspace) of
all new and substantially improved structures, if applicable;

Page 12 of 20

€-E.Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which any nonresidential structure (if applicable) shall be

floodproofed;

D-F.A certificate from a registered professional engineer or-arehitectthat the nonresidential floodproofed

E.G.

structure (if applicable) shall meet the floodproofing criteria of subsection 42-5-18-oF this title and the
NFIP Regulations;

Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural drainage will be altered or relocated
as a result of proposed development, if applicable;

At the community’s discretion, the community may charge a fee for issuance of floodplain development

permits.

community and a permanent record.

FJ. Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with subsection 12-5-1B of this title (Ord-09-27,

9-3-2009}

12-4-45: CONSIDERATIONS FOR APPROVAL OR DENIAL:

Approval or denial of a development permit by the floodplain administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of
this title and the following relevant factors:

A.

B.

The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;

The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage and the effect of such damage on
the individual owner;

The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of others;
The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated development;
The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency vehicles;

The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions, including maintenance and
repair of streets and bridges, and public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;

The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects
of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site;

The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;

The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;

The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for that area {Ord_—09-27, 9-3-2009}

12-4-56: VARIANCES AND APPEALS:

Appeals_Authority:- The appealsappeal authority, as established by the communityTitle | of this Code,

shall hear and render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this title:_after_a floodplain
development permit has been denied.

A.

Appeal Decision Of Floodplain Administrater:Fhe-To Courts. Any person or persons aggrieved
by the decision of the appeals authority may appeal such decision to the Salt Lake County Third District
Court.

Page 13 of 20

A-B. Appeal Authority. The appeal authority as established by Title | of this Code shall hear and render
judgment on an appeal _under this Title only when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision,

or determination made by the fleodplain-administratorFloodplain Administrator in the enforcement
8¥Fof administration of this title.

G.—Appeal-Fo-Courts: Any-person-or-persons-agerieved-by-the decision-of the appeals authority mayappeat such
decision-inthe-courts-of competent jurisdiction:

Reeords:
BC. Record Reports:. The fleedplain-administraterFloodplain Administrator shall maintain a

record of all actions involving an appeal and shall report variances to the-federal-emergency
managementagency-tipen-requestFEMA and the State Coordinating Agency upon the appeal

authority’s issuing of a variance.

H.—HFHstorie Structures: Varianees-may-be-issuedfor the reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration-of structures
listed-onthe National Register-of Historie Places-orthe State tnventoryof Historic Places without regard to
the-procedtires setforth in-the remainder of this title,

GD. Lot Size:. Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements to be erected
on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures

constructed below the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in subsection—l-of this
sectionSection |2-4-6 have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half (1/2) acre,
the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.

DE. Conditions Ofof Variance:. Upon consideration of the factors noted above and in consideration of

the intent and purposes of this title, the appealsappeal authority may attach such conditions to the granting
of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this title.

E.F. Floodways:. Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.

F.G.Repair Or Rehabilitation Ofof Historic Structure. Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, repair,
restoration or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure. The term ‘‘substantial
improvement’* does not include any alteration of a structure or facility listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.

=

Prerequisites For Granting Variances:.

1. Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.

2. Variances shall only be issued upon:
a. Showing a good and sufficient cause;

b. A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship
to the applicant; and

c. A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood
heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local
laws or ordinances.

Page 14 of 20

Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that the structure will
be permitted to be built with the lowest floor elevation below the base flood elevationBFE,
and that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation.

G-l. New Construction; Improvements:. Variances may be issued by aeonnnunitythe appeal authority for new
construction and substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use; provided, that:

1.

The criteria outlined in subsections-A-threughtsSection 12-4-6 of this sectiontitle are
met; and

The structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages
during the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety {Ord09-27, 9-3-

2009}
CHAPTER 5

PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION

SECTION:

42-5-1: Standards
12-5-3:Shallow-Floeding Areas
42-5-4: Floodways

12-5-1: STANDARDS:

A. General:. In all areas of special flood hazard each and every one of the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:

Prevention Of Flotation, Collapse:. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the

effects of buoyancy}.

Construction To Minimize Flood Damage:. All new construction or substantial improvements
shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage}.

Materials Resistant To Flood Damage:. All new construction or substantial improvements shall
be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage}.

Equipment, Service Facilities:. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or

accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding}.

Water Supply Systems:. All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system:.

Sewage Systems:. New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge from the systems into

floodwaters-and.
Page 15 of 20

7. Waste Disposal Systems:. On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.

B. Specific: In all areas-ef special flood hazard areas (SFHAs) where base-floed-elevatienBFE data has
been provided-as-setforthin-section 2-3-2 and subsection 12-4-2H-of thistitte-and

subsection 12-5-2€ of this chapter, the following provisions are required:

1. Residential Construction:. New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the base fleed
elevation.BFE. A registered professional engineer;arehitect or land surveyor shall submit
a—certificationcertified elevations to the fleedplain—administraterF loodplain
Administrator that the standard-ofthis-subsection-as_prepesed-in-sections12-
4-3-and42-4-4standards of this title isare satisfied.

2. Nonresidential Construction:. New construction and substantial improvements of any
commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor
(including basement) elevated to or above the base flood level or, together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components
having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
A registered professional engineer-orarehitect shall develop and/or review structural design,
specifications and plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this subsection.
A record of such certification, which includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which such structures are floodproofed, shall be maintained by the fleedplain
achninistraterFloodplain Administrator. If the use or occupancy of the building changes in
the future to residential. then the dry floodproofing of the structure cannot be used when
determining compliance of the structure to the residential construction of this title, 12-5-
1(B)(1). As such the building will not be grandfathered into compliance and will be required to

be brought into compliance with the residential construction requirements of this title.

3. Enclosures:. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed areas below
the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an
area other than a basement, and—which are subject to flooding shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and
exit of floodwaters, Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered

professional engineer or architect ormeet or exceed the following minimum criteria:

a. A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less than one square
inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.

b. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1') above grade.

c. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other coverings or devices;
provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.

d. The development and construction of the structure must conform with the provision in
FEMA/Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)-Technical Bulletins | and 2.
Certification and documentation from a professional, licensed engineer is required if
the structure’s lowest floor is built below the BFE.

4. Manufactured Homes:.

a. Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within ZeneZone A on a

community FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices whiehthat
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over the top or frame

ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable stateState and
local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.

b. Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved within
zones Al-30, AH and AE on the community FIRM on sites: 1) outside of a
manufactured home park or subdivision; 2) in a new manufactured home park or
subdivision; 3) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision;
or 4) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured
home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a flood, be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated
to or above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.

c. Require that manufactured homes bethat are placed or substantially improved on sites
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with zones A1-30, AH and AE
on the community FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of this subsection be
elevated so that either:

(1) The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood
elevation; or

(2) The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than thirty
six inches (36") in height above grade and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral
movement.

5. Recreational Vehicles:. Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within zones A1-30,
AH, and AE on the community FIRM either:

Be

#——be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days;

a. Be and be fully licensed and ready for highway use;-OF
febeet

b. Or meet the permit requirements of SeetenSection 12-4-34, Permit Procedures, of
this title, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes" in
subsection B4 of this section. ee
by-quicle-disconnect-type-utilities-and -security devices, and- bes-n6
permanently attached additions. (Ord, 09-27,9-3-2009)

6. _Crawlspaces. New construction and substantial improvements built on a crawlspace or sub-
grade (below grade) crawlspace may be permitted if the development is designed and meets or
exceeds the standards found in FEMA’s Technical Bulletins |, 2, and 11, which include but are
not limited to the following:

a.__The structure must be affixed to a permanent foundation, designed and adequately
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Because
of hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construction is not allowed in areas with flood

Page 17_of 20

velocities greater than 5 feet per second unless the design is reviewed by a qualified
design professional, such as a registered professional engineer.

The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the BFE and, as such, must have openings

that _equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters. The bottom of each flood vent opening can be no more than | foot above
the LAG.

The crawlspace enclosure must have proper openings that allow equalization of

hydrostatic pressure by allowing automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. To achieve
this, a minimum of | square inch of flood opening is required per 1 square foot of the
enclosed area subject to flooding.

Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with materials resistant to

flood damage. This includes not only the foundation walls of the crawlspace used to
elevate the building, but also anv joists, insulation, piers, or other materials that extend
below the BFE. Ductwork, in particular, must either be placed above the BFE or sealed
from floodwaters.

Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the BFE or

designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within the system components
during flood conditions.

The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more than 2 feet below

the LAG.

The height of the below-grade crawlspace. measured from the lowest interior grade of

the crawlspace floor to the bottom of the floor joist of the next higher floor cannot
exceed 4 feet at any point.

There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters from the interior

area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained within a reasonable time
after a flood event.

Buildings with below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood insurance premiums

than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace construction, with the interior
elevation at or above the LAG.

12-5-2: SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:

A.

All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions, shall be

consistent with seetion+2-5-H the provisions of this chaptertitle.

All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall have

BC.

GD.

adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.

All proposals for the development of subdivisions; including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions, shall meet developmentpernitDevelopment Permit requirements of sections
42-3-3-and 4I2-4-3 of this title and this chapter.

Base flood elevationFlood Elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other
proposed development, including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions which is

greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is less; +f net-otherwise-previded pursuant
to sectiont 2-4-2 of this ite and subsection 12-5-1B of this chapter.

Page 18 of 20

B-E. All subdivision proposals; including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions;
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.

£-F. All subdivision proposals; including the placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions; shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to

minimize or eliminate flood damage.{Ord-09-27,9-3-2009}

12-5-3: SHALLOW FLOODING AREAS:

Located within the areas-of special flood hazard areas (SFHAs) established in section 12-4-23-1, Lands Applicable,
of this title, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special flood hazards associated with base
flood depths of one to three feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow;
therefore, the following provisions apply:

A. All new construction and substantial improvements of residential structures have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on
the community FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified).

B. All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential structures:

1. Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least
as high as the depth number specified in feet on the community FIRM (at least 2 feet ifno depth
number is specified); or

2. Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed so that below the base flood
level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water
and with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads or effects of buoyancy.

C. A duly registered and licensed professional engineer erarehitect-shall submit a certification to the
floodplain administrator that the standards of this section-as-prepesedin-section 124-3 of this
title, are satisfied.

D. Require within ZeneSZones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes, to guide

floodwaters around and away from proposed structures. {Ord_09-27, 9-3-2009}

12-5-4: FLOODWAYS:

Loeeated

Floodways located within areas-of special flood hazard established-in-section-12-3-2 of thistitleareas
(SFHAs) are-areas-designated-as-floodways-Since the floodwayis-an extremely hazardous area due to

the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:

A._ Designate a regulatory floodway that will not increase the base flood level more than one foot.

AGB. Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements and other
development within the adopted regulatory floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed
encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within the community during the occurrence
of the base flood discharge.

BC. If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.

Page 19 of 20

G&D. Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter I, section 65.12, of the national flood insurance regulations,
a community may permit encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an
increase in base flood elevations; provided, that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM and

floodway revision through FEMA.-{Ord_-09-27, 9-3-2009)

CHAPTER 6

PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE
SECTION:

12-6-1: VIOLATION; PENALTY:

No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended, converted, or altered without full compliance
with the terms of this title and other applicable regulations. VielationAny violation of the provisions of this title by
failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a class B misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in section 1-
4-1-oFthis code; for each violation-andin-addition;. Additionally, any person found guilty of violating this Title

shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein-contained herein shall prevent the eityCity
from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. {Ord-99-27, 9-3-2009-

amd-2010Cede}

Page 20 of 20

ORDINANCE NO. 2021-26
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION

This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 22™ day
of September, 2021, with a short summary being published on the Utah Public Notice website. I
hereby certify and attest that the foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings
with respect to the ordinance number referenced above.

ora te

9 “@
“QyPpor, 2
An } ce

PE

Signed this 22™ day of September, 2021

EE ea Sf Velie
a Jatie gsthom, City Recorder


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2021-26
SHORT TITLE: AN ORDINANCE APPROVING AN AMENDMENT TO TITLE 12 OF
THE HERRIMAN CITY CODE REGARDING FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
REGULATION

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
David Watts x
Jared Henderson x
Sherrie Ohrn xX x
Steven Shields xX
Clint Smith X X

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 22" day of
September, 2021, on a roll call vote as described above.

