HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2022-31

Z2022-014 & Z2022-015— AMEND TITLE 10 BY ADDING A MAJOR CORRIDOR SIGN
OVERLAY ZONE TO ALLOW ADDITIONAL SIGN PROVISIONS FOR LARGE
COMMERCIAL, MANUFACTURING, AND MIXED-USE SITES AND ALLOWING
PLANNED CENTER SIGNS IN THE M-1 MANUFACTURING ZONE

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to Utah State Code, may adopt an ordinance
to establish land development regulations, which includes the adoption or amendment of a zoning
ordinance; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
recommend any zoning text amendments to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days prior
to the said public hearing to recommend any zoning text amendments to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, a notice of a Planning Commission public hearing on a zoning text
amendment was mailed to all affected property owners and entities on June 6, 2022, for a meeting
to be held on June 16, 2022, at 7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission made a recommendation for the zoning text
amendment in a public meeting held on June 16, 2022, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council Chamber;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the City Council
to consider the zoning text amendment and Planning Commission recommendation in a public
meeting; and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on July 13, 2022, at 7:00 p.m. to
discuss the zoning text amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the zoning text amendment, which was recommended by the Planning Commission
and documented in City Files numbered 72022-014 and Z2022-015;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council that the proposed text
ordinance as described in Exhibit A be adopted by the City.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2022-31, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be published
or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 13" day of July 2022.
HERRIMAN

eA feo

ATTEST: Mayor Lorin Palmer

—*

orate oe

0 LA )) ( AAG
Jack rom, City Recorder td) f AVS
NJ ERRIMAN i}
Ws A

Exhibit A
ARTICLE G: MAJOR CORRIDOR SIGN OVERLAY ZONE

10-1 5G-1: Purpose

10-15G-2: Applicability

10-15G-3: Development Approval
10-15G-4: Development Standards
10-15G-5: Signage

10-15G-6: Sign Development Standards

10-15G-1: Purpose

The purpose of the Major Corridor Sign (MCS) Overlay Zone is to provide additional opportunities for signage along
major corridors in the City. These corridors are typically State owned and include higher than normal traffic counts,
and speeds than found on other City owned streets and corridors.

10-15G-2: Applicability
The provisions of this article shall apply to all the following conditions:

A. All land zoned C-1, C-2, M-1. M-2, MU, MU-2, OP and AMSD
|. Excluding area within the Sports Entertainment. and VWU Village Mixed Use overlay zones.
B. Have a minimum development frontage on a State owned corridor of at least 200 feet.
C. Area which includes an overall commercial, mixed use, or manufacturing development of twenty (20)
contiguous acres minimum.

10-15G-3: Development Approval
Any sign utilizing the provisions of this ordinance shall be considered_a ‘Conditional Use’ and_shall follow the
established process for said use.

10-15G-4: Development Standards

A. Generally: All standards not specified in this chapter shall comply with all other regulations of this Title.
specifically those in 10-27 and all applicable Federal and State laws.

B. Notwithstanding any other restriction in this Code, including chapter 27 of this title. or this title. any sign
shall be owned and operated by the developer of the overall commercial. mixed use. or manufacturing site.

10-15G-5: Signage
Signage shall be allowed on land located in the MCS Overlay Zone as follows:

A. Underlying Zones: Signage shall be allowed to the same extent authorized in the underlying zone, or zones,
as set forth in chapter 27 of this title.

B. Multi-Tenant Center Sign:

1. Square footage of the multi-tenant center sign shall not count towards the overall signage of an
individual building.

2. Requires a minimum of twenty (20) contiguous acres as part of an overall commercial, mixed use,
or manufacturing site.

10-15G-6: Sign Development Standards

A. A multi-tenant center sign shall be a conditional use and shall conform to applicable requirements of chapter
27 of this title. An application for a permitted sign shall first obtain planning approval from the Planning


Commission confirming compliance with each of the following requirements in advance of applying for a

building permit:

The sign shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any State owned right-of-way and within the
boundaries of the MCS Overlay Zone.

The sign shall not be located within five hundred feet (500') from another multi-tenant sign.

The maximum height of the sign shall not exceed forty five feet (45') to the top of the sign above:

A. The average elevation of the most adjacent travelled way of Mountain View Corridor (NB
and SB lanes) located within one hundred feet (100') from the base of the sign.

45'Max @ 45'Max @

| Average Elevation
N8 or SB Lanes

a NB or SB Lanes

B. The most adjacent travelled way of any other State owned street within one hundred feet
(100°) from the base of the sign.

Each sign may have two (2) display faces with an active display area not to exceed five hundred
(500) square feet each, and an inactive (static) display area not to exceed seven hundred (700) square
feet. However, in no event shall the total sign area (active + inactive) exceed eight hundred (800)

square feet.

Each sign face shall be oriented towards the travelled way of the adjacent State owned street and
away from any residential dwellings.

The sign, including the supporting structure, shall be architecturally consistent with surrounding
development and shall include decorative material such as stone, brick, decorative steel, or similar
materials. In no case is an exposed support pole permitted.

No sign shall extend closer than five (5’) feet to the edge of the right of way property line, nor
impede a required easement.

B. In addition to the information required for a building permit as described in subsection A of this section. and

the requirements as set forth in Chanter 27 of this title, an application for a multi-tenant center sign shall

satisfy the requirements described below.

A site plan depicting the location of the proposed sign on the subject property. a rendering of the
sign calling out materials and sign dimensions. and any fencing or other screening to segregate the
sign area from adjoining uses:

A photometric plan for the sign along with a statement from the electronic display manufacturer
certifying that each display will allow for automatic dimming based on night and day time and
ambient light conditions based on industry best practices: and


dance with 10-27-

in_ accor

ll be operated i

ign wi

hat the s

An acknowledgement from the sign owner t

3.

M-I Zone

25° of wall area may be cov ered

Cannot extend above

S maximum projection
from building

Attached to building

Awning ie x’ minimum above ground
. «nad ar : . building wall 7
$0°o oF awning may have sign cops Mav be on 3 building
walls Primary sign copy on face or xtrect side of structure
Balloon None None Anywhere on lot A balloon sign is a conditional use
Flat or wall 20% aot wall arca None Building wall
sethack
32 sq. fi. plus T sq. tt for every 4’ ot oo. ..
Monument 7 ‘4 - Silas ° . 6 . ne A monument sign is a conditional use
frontage over 30° on a street up to 64 sq_ ti | sign per 300° frontage.
or part thereot
| A planned Center sign is 2 conditional sg tis limited to commercial centers with Dor more seres andl mulole rent! tenants
| Planned oj . a r Pa) ¢
200) sq. ft. ayctback Maximtum of 1 ssun per street frontage
center grade
Subject to conditional use approval
Reof sign may be substituted fora ground or projecting sign. but is subject to conditional use appraval. The Planning
Roof Same ais ground sign 1 above root Commission may deny a sin or set more restrictive conditions. Signs shall be installed so that the support structure is not
visible
. ‘ Allowed 4 maximum of 21 davs atany | ime. with 2 minimum 30 day separation between displays. and not more than 4 times
Temporary None None :
during a calendar vear
|
| Window None None In window None


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2022-31

SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10 BY ADDING A MAJOR

CORRIDOR SIGN OVERLAY ZONE TO ALLOW ADDITIONAL SIGN PROVISIONS FOR

LARGE COMMERCIAL, MANUFACTURING, AND MIXED-USE SITES AND
ALLOWING PLANNED CENTER SIGNS IN THE M-1 MANUFACTURING ZONE

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
Lorin Palmer x
Jared Henderson x
Teddy Hodges x x
Sherrie Ohrn x x
Steven Shields x
:

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 13" day of
July, 2022, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2022-31
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION

This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 13" day
of July, 2022, with a short summary being published on the Utah Public Notice website. I hereby
certify and attest that the foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings with
respect to the ordinance number referenced above.

Signed this 13" day of July, 2022

yp 5 = NS A \ shee)
<< JaNGe/Nostkom, City Recorder

,: Xe
Ores.
Qo" porag, vv

rE

HER RIMAN


