CHAPTER 10-31 AUTO MALL SPECIAL DISTRICT
10-31-1: Purpose
10-31-2: Definitions
10-31-3: Permitted Uses
10-31-4: Conditional Accessory Uses
10-31-5: Applicability Of Auto Mall Special District
10-31-6: Schematic Development Plans
10-31-7: Development StandardsC-2 Modifications
10-31-8: Development Standards for Franchise Dealerships
10-31-9: Development Standards for Non-Franchise Dealerships
10-31-108: Landscape Standards
10-31-119: Interim Facilities
10-31-120: Signage
10-31-131: Procedure
10-31-142: Exhibits

10-31-1: Purpose
The purpose of the Auto Mall Special District (AMSD) is to concentrate new and used automobile sales, and related products
and services, within a contiguous master-planned commercial development located north of 12600 South Street between
Mountain View Corridor and Herriman Main Street. The AMSD also includes the sale of new and used recreational vehicles,
all-terrain vehicles, boats, and related products and services. All land uses within the AMSD shall comply with the commercial
development standards for the C-2 Commercial Zone, unless specified otherwise within this chapter.

10-31-2: Definitions
Certain words and phrases in this chapter, including uses, are defined in chapter 3 of this title. Additional definitions include:

       ARCHITECTURAL CONCRETE: Concrete designed and placed for the exterior ornamentation or finish of a building
       or structure that is treated by color or texture and color as depicted in Herriman City Code 10-31-14 (Exhibit D).

       COVERED VEHICLE STORAGE: A private area used exclusively for vehicle storage that is covered by roofs supported by posts
       or walls extending to the ground beneath but not entirely enclosed by walls, windows, and doors that provides partial protection
       from the elements of weather.
      ENCLOSED VEHICLE STORAGE: A private area used exclusively for vehicle storage that is completely enclosed by a building
      with roofs, walls, windows, and doors that provides protection from the elements of weather and unwanted entry.

      FRANCHISE DEALERSHIP: A motor vehicle dealer that operates according to a franchise or similar agreement with a
      national or international manufacturer of motor vehicles such as General Motors, Ford, Toyota, Tesla, Dodge, Yamaha,
      and Polaris.

      MOTOR VEHICLE DEALER: A Dealership; Automobile, Trucks, Sales and Service (New); Dealership; Automobile, Trucks,
      Sales and Service (Used); Dealership; Recreational Vehicle, All-Terrain Vehicle, Boat or Trailer, Sales and Service (New); or
      Dealership; Recreational Vehicle, All-Terrain Vehicle, Boat or Trailer, Sales and Service (Used).

      OUTDOOR VEHICLE STORAGE: A private area used exclusively for vehicle storage that is not fully enclosed within a building
      or covered by a structure but has walls that provide screening from public and private views and protection from unwanted entry.
      Outdoor vehicle storage shall require a six-foot-tall precast or masonry wall around all sides of the outdoor vehicle storage area,
      except for gate openings. The width of a gate opening shall be the minimum amount necessary to facilitate safe ingress and egress.
      The gate shall be opaque and constructed of solid materials to screen the outdoor vehicle storage area from view. Additional wall
      height may be required by the Community Development Director or designee if necessary for compliance with City Code and
      adopted standards.

      VEHICLE STORAGE: Storage of operating vehicles, boats, recreational vehicles, all-terrain vehicles, utility task vehicles, and
      other similar movable apparatuses with a motor for more than twenty-four (24) hours. Vehicle storage does not include inoperable
      apparatuses with a motor, lawnmowers, snow blowers, generators, or other similar movable apparatuses with a small engine.
      Vehicle storage includes enclosed, covered, and outdoor vehicle storage.

10-31-3: Permitted Uses
Unless otherwise allowed by State law, the following uses are considered permitted uses within the AMSD are shown in the
Table of Uses in Herriman City Code 10-16-1:

      New motor vehicle dealerships.

10-31-4: Conditional Accessory Uses
       Unless otherwise allowed by State law, the following uses are considered conditional uses within the AMSD and subject
       to the standards in section 10-5-11 of this title:
Dealership, recreational vehicle, all-terrain vehicle, boat, sales and service (new).The following uses are considered accessory uses
within the AMSD zone, subject to the development and other standards in this chapter:

       Vehicle Repair, Limited
       Vehicle Storage

10-31-5: Applicability Of Auto Mall Special District
The standards outlined in this chapter shall apply to the development of all parcels or lots that are zoned AMSD, and located
within the boundaries shown in subsection 10-31-121A (Exhibit A) of this chapter. The provisions of this chapter may be
applied to other properties in the City, with appropriate modifications, by an approved Master Development Agreement.

10-31-6: Schematic Development Plans
Development within the AMSD shall demonstrate substantial complyiance with the schematic development plan shown in
subsection 10-31-11Bregulations of this chapter. Development within the AMSD may be permitted in phases by the Planning
Commission subject to the site plan standards in section 10-5-12 of this title.

10-31-7: C-2 Modifications
Sections 10-12-6.C.1 Bike Paths, C.4 Pedestrian Amenities, C.6 Bicycle Parking, C.7 Pedestrian and Bike Paths, C.13
Architectural Elements – included but modified as 10-31-8(G), C.15 Architectural Elements – included but modified as 10-31-
8(H), C.17 – modified to allow new-car franchises to use their architecture at 10-31-8(A), and C.18 – MDA increases exterior
lighting requirements, of the C-2 District shall not apply to the AMSD.

10-31-8: Development Standards for Franchise Dealerships
If certain design standards, including, but not limited to, building materials or colors, glazing, sizes, signage, lighting, setbacks, or
heights, are mandated by the national or international manufacturer on a franchise dealership, then those design standards shall
be deemed approved by the City.

10-31-97: Development Standards for Non-Franchise Dealerships
   A. Architectural Design And Materials:
          1. Building design and materials for all permitted uses shall be subject to the following:
               a. Materials shall be selected which require low maintenance, such as CMU, stone, cultured stone, metal,
                  stucco, engineereding wood, painted or integrally colored architectural concrete, metal cladding (as an
                  accent material), or fiber cement board. Buildings should shall consist of at least three (3) different
                  materials.
               b. The following materials shall be specifically prohibited:
                       1) Unpainted, uncolored plain concrete walls that is not architectural concrete;
                       2) Metal or tin, unless where used as an accent material.
               c. Tilt-up concrete construction is permitted so long as it is painted or integrally colored architectural
                  concrete.
               d. Roofs shall not be exposed unless they are part of the decorative or architectural treatment of the building,
                  such as parapets, columns, and similar elements.
       2. Building design and materials for all conditional uses shall comply with the commercial design criteria in
           subsection 10-12-6C of this title.
B. Lot Coverage: Lot coverage by buildings and covered or semi-enclosed outbuildings shall not exceed forty percent (40%).
C. Lot Size: The minimum lot size shall be three (3) acres.
C.D.       Buffers, Fences, And Walls: As part of the site plan approval process, special buffers, fences, and walls shall be
   required to provide separations between public/commercial areas, service, loading, refuse collection, equipment and/or
   storage areas.
D.E.       Building Size: Minimum building size shall be thirty-five hundred (3,500) square feet. Maximum building size
   shall be one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet.
E.F.       Building Height: Maximum building height shall be fifty five feet (55'). Additional height may be permitted as
   conditional use, subject to the following:
       1. In evaluating an application for additional building height, the Planning Commission shall find that the increased
           height will result in:
               a. Improved site layout and amenities,
               b. Architectural features that give the roofline a distinctive form or skyline,
               c. Lighting that highlights the architectural detailing of the entire building, but shall not exceed the maximum
                  lighting standards as described elsewhere within this title, and
       2. Additional building height shall be limited to fifteen feet (15').
G. For all buildings, at least two (2) of the following elements should repeat horizontally. Buildings with front facades
   greater than one hundred feet (100') in length should include several of such elements, repeated at appropriate intervals,
   either horizontally or vertically:
          1. Color change. Minimum of two (2) colors per elevation shall be required.
          2. Texture change.
          3. Material change.
          4. Architectural variety and interest.
          5. The City Council, in its discretion, may grant an exception to this criteria.
H. For any primary use building (not an accessory use building), the front facades shall be constructed with a minimum 15%
     and maximum 85% glass. The remaining front façade shall consist of a one or more of the following materials: brick,
     stone, glass, decorative block or concrete, stucco, aluminum composite material, architectural concrete, or simulated
     stone panels. Side and back facades shall include at least two (2) of the following: glass, brick, stone, decorative block or
     concrete, stucco, aluminum composite material, architectural concrete, and simulated stone panels. The City Council, in
     its discretion, may grant an exception to this criteria.
F.I. Parking/Vehicle Storage: The minimum number of parking spaces required shall be four hundred (400) square feetone
     (1) for every four hundred (400) square feet of public showroom display area for all auto-related uses. Spaces may be
     used for customer, employee, inventory or service bays. All other uses shall provide parking as per current City Code.
G.J.         New And Used Car Display: Car displays, arrangement of parking spaces, and circulation shall be at the dealer's
     option. However, no car displays shall block minimum required clear vision view areas at driveway intersections or block
     lanes for public safety, egress or fire access. These clear vision areas and emergency access lanes shall be noted on the
     proposed site plan.
H.K.         Security For Display Vehicles: To the extent deemed necessary by individual dealers, curb walls no higher than
     sixteen inches (16"), closely spaced concrete bollards, berms, low-security fencing, and rails may be used. The design
     must be compatible with project theme and architectural detailing in other parts of the site.
I.L.Inventory And Parts Storage Areas: Inventory and parts storage areas shall be provided within buildings or in screened
     areas in accordance with subsection C of this section. To the extent practical, areas for storage should be combined with
     adjacent dealership properties.
J.M.         Access And Internal Circulation:
          1. Driveway Access: Except where otherwise required for compliance with applicable codes and for fire lanes,
             driveways shall be a minimum of twenty- four feet (24') wide, and all drives shall have a minimum 12.5 -foot
             radius measured from the top back of curb.
          2. Service Area Access: Service areas shall have sufficient stacking lanes on site to stack a minimum of one vehicle
             per service bay. Stacking lanes shall not block the flow of traffic or fire access lanes.
K.N.         Fences, Screens And Walls:
       1. Fences, screens, and walls shall be compatible and architecturally complementary between two (2) adjoining sites.
           This may be achieved by use of similar materials and finishes to the building, landscaping materials, or other
           architectural design features.
       2. Location of fences shall be compatible with adjoining property users to permit the common use of gates and
           accesses.
       3. Neither chain link fencing nor plain concrete block fences are permitted.
       4. Ten foot (10') screening walls around auto storage areas shall be permitted.
L.O.       Display Pedestals:
       1. The number of display pedestals allowed in the front setback shall be one pedestal per one hundred feet (100') of
           street frontage or part thereof. The total number of pedestals allowed on the site may be clustered together to
           achieve more effective display, sales area, or circulation.
       2. Display pedestals shall be no closer than two feet (2') from a property line.
       3. Display pedestals shall meet all clear view requirements of this Code and the Herriman City Engineering
           Standards.
P. Site Lighting: All outdoor lighting, including street lights and parking lot lights, shall be in conformance with the
   requirements of Herriman Engineering Standards as per section 9-2-2 of this Codefollowing.:
       1. Where illuminance values are specified, the plan of reference shall be at ground level. Lighting will meet the Dark
           sky compliance standards and will pass the International Dark-Sky Association (ID) Fixture Seal of Approval
           program.
       2.
            General Area Lots           Interior Rows        Front Row
              Average Illuminance      30 fc. max         50 fc. max
              Avg/Min Uniformity       3:1 max            3:1 max
              Ratio:
              Maximum allowable        40 fc. max         60 fc. max
              Illuminance

       M.3.        Twenty foot tall (20’) light poles with LED lighting mounted on a 3’ concrete base is to be standard.
10-31-108: Landscape and Other Standards
   A. Variety: Landscaping shall consist of a variety of trees, shrubs, flowers, and other planted material, and shall be primarily
       comprised of water-wise landscaping applications of ground covers, rock, and mulch.
   B. Water Efficiency: All new landscaping and revisions to existing landscape shall incorporate water-efficient landscape
       materials.
   C. Public Rights-Of-Way Minimum: A minimum of twenty fifteen feet (2015') width of landscaping will be required along
       all public rights-of-way. Except every one hundred feed (100’), a frontage car display area of no more than twenty feet
       (20’) long may narrow the landscaping width down to eight feet (8’). A minimum of ten five feet (105') width of
       landscaping will be required as rear and side yard landscaped areas.
   D. Minimum Required Along Mountain View Corridor: A minimum of twenty five feet (205') width of landscaping will be
       required along parcels abutting the Mountain View Corridor right-of-way. Landscaping improvements consisting of
       rockscape requiring no water are required to be installed and maintained by each dealer in the area between the existing
       sidewalk and the property line for lots along Mountain View Corridor.
   E. Number Of Trees Within Landscape Easement: Within the required landscape easement along public and private
       rightsThe number- of -way, at least one trees to shall be planted shall equal no fewer than one (1) for every thirty feet
       (30') of frontage. The trees need not be spaced 30 feet apart on the frontage, but may be planted in clusters. Any
       clustering shall not exceed sixty feet (60’) apart.
   F. Trees Within Parking, Display Areas: Within the internal landscape areas of parking/display areas, a minimum of one tree
       shall be planted for every one four thousand (14,000) square feet of parking/display area. Trees may be clustered around
       the parking area. Inventory display areas do not require trees.
   G. Common Areas: Landscaping or other side or rear yard barriers or side yards between adjoining dealership properties
       may be eliminated if the yard area is used in conjunction with an adjoining property for common driveways, displays or
       parking.
   H. Vehicle Storage. The accessory use of Vehicle Storage shall comply with the following:
            1. Operating hours: A business with vehicle storage may only operate between 9:00 am to 6:00 pm.
            2. Relationship to Primary Use: Vehicle storage must be located on the same parcel as its primary permitted use.
            3. Ownership: Vehicle storage must be under common ownership, as defined by the regulations in the Internal
               Revenue Service, as the primary permitted use.
            4. Fencing. Vehicle storage shall be screen by a minimum six foot (6’) high masonry fence.
            5. Height. For enclosed or covered vehicle storage, the maximum height shall be twenty feet (20’) unless located
               within twenty feet (20’) of a residential property line, then the height shall be no more than fifteen feet (15’).
   I. Vehicle Repair, Limited. The accessory use of Vehicle Repair, Limited shall comply with the following conditions:
          1. The accessory use shall only be on property that is owned or controlled by the owner of the primary permitted use of the
              Motor Vehicle Dealer as defined by the regulations of the Internal Revenue Service, and
          G.2.       The accessory use is located within eight hundred feet (800’) of the primary permitted use of the Motor Vehicle
              Dealer measured from the nearest property line to the nearest property of each respective use

10-31-119: Interim Facilities
   A. To facilitate economic development within the City, a dealership may request the use of an interim structure or facility in
       the AMSD. Request for use of an interim structure or facility shall be reviewed and decided by the Planning
       Commission, subject to the following:
           1. An interim structure or facility request must be accompanied by a preliminary development plan that
              demonstrates compliance with all applicable City Codes and regulations upon completion of the final
              development plan.
           2. The design and materials of the interim structure or facility shall conform to the aesthetic values and visual form
              of the AMSD while fulfilling its temporary purpose. The requirements of Section 10-31-9(A)(1)(a) (use of three
              different architectural materials) shall not apply to interim facilities.
           3. Use and development of the subject property shall comply with all other requirements of this chapter, including
              but not limited to landscaping, screening, signage, paving, access and internal circulation.
           4. The development plan shall include a phasing schedule, not to exceed three (3) years from the date of building
              permit issuance for development of a parcel or lot.
           5. The dealership, or its agent, shall agree to present an annual report on construction of the phased development
              plan to the Planning Commission.
           6. Failure to comply with phased development plan schedule shall be grounds for permit revocation as provided in
              subsection 10-7-7F of this title.
   B. For the purpose of this chapter, use of an interim building or facility may not exceed a period of three (3) years, unless an
       extension of time is granted by the Planning Commission, which extension shall not exceed a period of six (6) months. A
       complete building permit must be submitted within twenty-four (24) months of an interim facility being used. Use of an
       interim facility may only be used one time on a parcel within a 10-year period.

10-31-120: Signage

10-31-12-1: Purpose
The purpose of signage in the AMSD is to provide additional opportunities for signage in the City. Signage is an important
component of land use within the AMSD. All signs shall comply with the City sign ordinance with the following
exceptionsunless specifically addressed in this section:

10-31-12-2: Applicability
The provisions of this section shall apply to all the following conditions:
   A. All land shown in Exhibit B.
   B. Have a minimum development frontage on a State-owned corridor, 12600 South, Main Street or Auto Row of at least
       200 feet.

10-31-12-3: Development Approval
Any sign utilizing the provisions of this ordinance shall be considered a ‘Permitted Use’ and shall follow the established process
for said use. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all other procedural requirements, such as applications for
subdivision approval, site plan review, conditional use, and any other permit shall be processed in accordance with City
regulation, policy, or procedure.

10-31-12-4: Development Standards
   A. Generally Standards: All standards not specified in this chapter shall comply with all other regulations, specifically those
       in HCC 10-27 and all applicable Federal and State laws.
           1. Location of all ground mounted signs shall be limited to the locatedions in Exhibit B, to meet the requirements
              for traffic safety and visibility, and shall be located outside the clear view area (including traffic lights).
           2. Illuminated signs shall be internally lighted. Exposed neon is also permitted as an accent or decorative sign
              element.
           3. No flat faced box or cabinet type sign with painted copy shall be permitted.
           4. If signage is integrated with an architectural feature of the building, such as a backlit element, face or column, or a
              design element that is cast into architectural materials, only the portion of the sign that is text or corporate logo
              shall be counted toward the total allowed signage area.
           5. All banner signs, inflatables, flags, balloons, animated signs, and temporary signs, as allowed in this text, shall not
              require an additional sign permit from the City.
   B. Permanent Signage:
           1. Mountain View Corridor (MVC) Frontage:
                  a. Two monolithic signs of maximum fifty feet (50') high by fifteen feet (15') wide; and
            b. Each dealer adjacent to MVC may have a sign that complies with the requirements of a planned center sign
                as found in section 10-27-7 of this title.
     2. Main Street Frontage:
            a. Each dealer adjacent to Main Street may have a sign that complies with the requirements of a planned
                center sign as found in section 10-27-7 of this title.
     3. Private Street Frontage:
            a. Each dealer with frontage on a private street shall be allowed to have monument signs as allowed in
                section 10-27-7 of this title. In addition monument signs at each motor vehicle dealer property three types
                of permanent signage are allowed at the sizes and locations specified on Exhibit B.
     4. Building Signage:
            a. Location: Signs shall be mounted on building facades parallel to and contiguous with the wall upon which
                the sign is attached. Signs may be attached to screen walls or service buildings facing a street.
            b. Quantity: A maximum sign copy area allowance for each facade of a building facing a public right-of-way
                shall be ten percent (10%) of the facade. In the case that a building fronts a public way on more than one
                facade, the maximum sign area allowance shall apply to each facade. A transfer of sign allowance area
                between facades on the same building shall not exceed one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the
                allowed area for any given facade. Allowed signage area on a facade may be comprised of one or more
                individual signs and need not be contiguous.
            c. Construction: Signs shall be internally illuminated, with individual pan channel or channelume letters, or
                construction methods with similar intent. Exposed neon as an accent element, logo or decorative feature
                is allowed as part of the sign area allowance.
     5. On-Site Directional/Destination And Information Signs: On-site signs shall be located as needed to facilitate
        internal circulation and destination identification.
C. Temporary Signage:
     1. General Standards:
            a. Signs shall not be placed in or over a public right-of-way.
            b. Signs shall not flash, blink, spin, rotate, block traffic visibility, constitute a vehicular or pedestrian traffic
                hazard, or cause a public nuisance of any kind.
            c. Signs shall not be attached to telephone light poles, trees or security gates.
            d. Signs must be firmly secured.
            e. Signs within a power line easement shall comply with height conditions of the easement.
      f. Prior to December 15 of each calendar year, property owners within the AMSD shall jointly submit to the
          City planning department a calendar for the coming year of special promotion periods and holiday
          promotion periods that establishes "“fly dates"” for temporary signs, balloons, and inflatables. Fly dates
          shall comply with the provisions for special promotion and holiday promotion periods established in this
          section.
2. Banners:
      a. Flag banners may be placed along frontage streets with a minimum interval spacing of at least thirty feet
          (30'’).
      b. Pole banners may be attached to non-public poles and supports.
      c. Flag banners may be freestanding feather banners with in-ground supports and spikes.
3. Temporary Sign Devices: The following types of sign devices may be used during the permitted special promotion
   and holiday promotion periods:
      a. Banners attached to the buildings, not exceeding fifteen percent (15%) of the building facade and no more
          than one banner per facade, but temporary building banners shall not be counted toward maximum
          allowance for permanent signage;
      b. Vehicle decorations, including antenna flags, balloons, windshield paintings, and hood displays;
      c. Tall balloons designed to attract attention from long distances, including cloud busters (balloons attached
          in a series with string or pennant flags) and hot air balloons;
      d. Carnival tents;
      e. Search or spotlights; and
      f. Inflatable objects for the purpose of advertising a specific product or to bring attention to a special
          promotion, such as inflatable mascots, gorillas, bounce houses, and promotional sponsors.
4. Special Promotion Periods:
      a. Property owners within the AMSD may implement jointly up to twenty one (21) special promotion periods
          per calendar year.
      b. Each period may not exceed five (5) consecutive days in length.
      c. Special promotional periods shall not be combined to run consecutively and must be separated by nine (9)
          calendar days between each special promotion period.
      d. A sign permit for temporary signage is not required, provided the signage meets the requirements of this
          section.
5. Holiday Promotion Periods:
             a. Property owners within the AMSD may implement jointly up to nine (9) holiday promotion periods per
                 calendar year.
             b. Unless otherwise noted below, each period may not exceed six (6) consecutive days in length.
             c. Holiday promotional periods may be combined to run consecutively with other special promotion periods.
             d. The following days shall be considered holiday promotion periods:
                     1) New Year's Day (January);
                     2) Presidents Day (February);
                     3) Tax season (April, 7 days);
                     4) Memorial Day (May);
                     5) 4th of July (July);
                     6) 24th of July (July);
                     7) Labor Day (September);
                     8) Thanksgiving (November); and
                     9) End of year/Christmas (December 15 - December 31).
D. Sign 1 (Exhibit C) along State owned corridor:
      1. Sign 1 shall be a permitted use and shall conform to applicable requirements of chapter 27 of this title. An
          application for a permitted sign shall first obtain planning approval from the Planning Commission confirming
          compliance with each of the following requirements in advance of applying for a building permit:
             a. The sign shall be located within fifty feet (50') of any State-owned right-of-way.
             b. The sign shall not be located within two hundred feet (200') from another multi-tenant sign.
             c. The maximum height of the sign shall not exceed Seventy-seven feet (77') to the top of the sign above:
                     1) The average elevation of the most adjacent traveled way of Mountain View Corridor (NB and SB
                         lanes) located within one hundred feet (100') from the base of the sign.
                     2) The most adjacent traveled way of any other State-owned Street within one hundred feet (100’)
                         from the base of the sign.
E. Sign 2 (Exhibit C) along 12600 South and Main Street:
      1. Sign 2 shall be a permitted use and shall conform to applicable requirements of chapter 27 of this title. An
          application for a permitted sign shall first obtain planning approval from the Planning Commission confirming
          compliance with each of the following requirements in advance of applying for a building permit:
             a. The sign shall be located within fifty feet (50') of 12600 South or Main Street.
             b. The sign shall not be located within two hundred feet (200') from another multi-tenant sign.
             c. The maximum height of the sign shall not exceed twenty-five feet (25') to the top of the sign to the finish
                  grade of the base sign.
             d. Each sign may have two (2) display faces with an active display area not to exceed eighty-seven (87) square
                  feet each, and an inactive (static) display area not to exceed ninety-six (96) square feet. However, in no
                  event shall the total sign area (active + inactive) exceed one hundred eighty-three (183) square feet.
F. Sign 3 (Exhibit C) along Auto Row and Main Street:
      1. Sign 3 shall be a permitted use and shall conform to applicable requirements of chapter 27 of this title. An
          application for a permitted sign shall first obtain planning approval from the Planning Commission confirming
          compliance with each of the following requirements in advance of applying for a building permit:
             a. The sign shall be located within fifty feet (50') of Auto Row or Main Street.
             b. The sign shall not be located within two hundred feet (200') from another multi-tenant sign.
             c. The maximum height of the sign shall not exceed Twelve feet (12') to the top of the sign to the finish
                  grade athe base of the sign.
             d. Each sign may have two (2) display faces with an active display area not to exceed thirty-nine (39) square
                  feet each, and an inactive (static) display area not to exceed sixty (60) square feet. However, in no event
                  shall the total sign area (active + inactive) exceed ninety-nine (99) square feet.
G. Additional Standards:
      1. Each sign face shall be oriented towards the traveled way of the adjacent State owned street, public street and
          away from any residential dwellings.
      2. The sign, including the supporting structure, shall be architecturally consistent with surrounding development and
          shall include decorative material such as stone, brick, decorative steel, or similar materials. In no case is an
          exposed support pole permitted.
      3. No sign shall extend closer than five (5’) feet to the edge of the right of way property line, nor impede a required
          easement.
      4. In addition to the information required for a building permit as described in subsection A of this section, and the
          requirements as set forth in Chapter 27 of this title, an application for Sign 1, 2 or 3 shall satisfy the requirements
          described below.
             a. A site plan depicting the location of the proposed sign on the subject property, a rendering of the sign
                  calling out materials and sign dimensions, and any fencing or other screening to segregate the sign area
                  from adjoining uses;
                   b. A photometric plan for the sign along with a statement from the electronic display manufacturer certifying
                       that each display will allow for automatic dimming based on night and day time and ambient light
                       conditions based on industry best practices; and
                   9)c.        An acknowledgement from the sign owner that the sign will be operated in accordance with 10-27-
                       11.
10-31-12-5: Signage and Exhibits
Signage shall be allowed on land located in the C2 and AMSD Zone as follows:
   A. Underlying Zones: Signage shall be allowed to the same extent authorized in the underlying zone, or zones, as set forth in
       chapter 27 of this title.
   B. Sign 1, 2 and 3 Signs:
          1. Square footage of the signs 1,2 and 3 shall not count towards the overall signage of an individual building.
   C. Notwithstanding any other restriction in this Code, including chapter 27 of this title, or this title, any sign shall be owned
       and operated by the developer of the overall commercial site.
   D. Exhibit A – AMSD boundary
   E. Exhibit B – Location of signs
   F. Exhibit C – Signs 1, 2 and 3

10-31-131: Procedure
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all other procedural requirements, such as applications for subdivision approval,
site plan review, conditional use, and any other permit shall be processed in accordance with City regulation, policy, or
procedure.

10-31-142: Exhibits
Exhibit A - Auto Mall Special District Boundaries:
1.
2. Schematic Site Plan:
Exhibit B – Signs 1, 2, and 3 Locations
         Exhibit C

Sign 1
Sign 2
Sign 3
Exhibit D – Architectural Concrete
Color Options for Integrally Colored Concrete
