HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2022-03

Z2021-054 -ORDINANCE TO AMEND TITLE 10 PERTAINING TO REGULATIONS
FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to state law, may adopt an ordinance to
establish land development regulations, which includes the adoption or amendment of zoning text;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
recommend any zoning text amendments to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days prior to
the said public hearing to recommend any zoning text amendments to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, on October 25, 2021, the required Planning Commission public hearing notice
was posted in public locations as required by State noticing provisions for a meeting to be held on
November 4, 2021, at 7:00; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission made a recommendation for the zoning text
amendment in a public meeting held on November 4, 2021, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council
Chamber; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the City Council to
consider the zoning text amendment and Planning Commission recommendation in a public meeting;
and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on February 23, 2022, at 7:00 p.m. to
discuss the zoning text amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the zoning text amendment, which was recommended by the Planning Commission
and documented in City File number 72021-054;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council as follows:

Title 10 of Herriman City Code shall be amended as set forth in the attached Exhibit A. All
other sections and provisions of Title 10 shall be unaffected by this amendment.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2022-03 shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be published
or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 23" day of February 2022.

HERRIMAN

CE. Lee
ATTEST: nly trie Palmer

<
OPP Ota
i i

HERRIMAN

x


Exhibit A

The following excerpt from Herriman City Code has been selected to provide context for the proposed amendment.
Only the strike-through or underlined portions of the text are amended by this Ordinance. All other regulations
contained within Title 10 Land Development Code shail remain in effect.

Title 10 Land Use Development

Chapter 34
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES

SECTION:

10-34-1: Purpose

10-34-2: General Requirements

10-34-3: Location of Accessory Buildings and Structures

10-34-4: Architectural Standards

10-34-5: Standards Unique to Buildings and Structures in Agricultural Zones

10-34-6: Special Exceptions

10-34-1: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform regulations for accessory buildings
and structures within the City. These requirements are intended to ensure that accessory
buildings and structures are compatible with the character of the neighborhood and do not
unduly disturb or impact adjacent property owners while at the same time allowing residents
flexibility to make use of their property to accommodate Herriman residents’ personal hobby,
outdoor, and recreational pursuits.

10-34-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:

In addition to the use limitations and other regulations for the zoning district in which the
accessory building or structure is proposed to be located, no accessory building or structure
shall be allowed unless it complies with the following general standards:

A. All accessory buildings or structures are permitted in all zones provided they are
incidental and subordinate to the principal use and/or structure on the property, and
compliant with the provisions of this chapter and the zone wherein they are located.

B. An accessory building or structure shall be under the same ownership or control as
the principal structure and/or use on the property.


IO

|

|

[7

|

an

Except for agricultural zones, no accessory building or structure shall be
established or constructed before the main dwelling or structure is under
construction. Said accessory structure shall not be used prior to the issuance of a

certificate of occupancy for the main dwelling or structure.

No accessory building or structure shall include a residential dwelling unit nor
may an accessory building or structure be rented, sold, or otherwise used as a
separate living space, except as may be_ provided elsewhere in this Title,

Accessory building and structures shall not be used for a home occupation
except as provided in Section 10-22-6 of this Title.

All accessory buildings and structures shall comply with any and all applicable
standards and requirements of the International Building and Fire Codes.

Recreational play structures less than 16 feet in height are exempt from all general
restrictions of this chapter, except they shall comply with required setbacks as
other accessory structures.

H. Open roofed structures (pergola, trellis, arbors etc.), when lacking a solid roof and

open on all sides, shall still be setback a minimum of three (3) feet from side and

rear property lines. Open on all sides means that no solid wall is included in the
structure. Lattice work that is fifty (560%) transparent is not considered solid, nor
are walls constructed to support plant material.

Yard measurement to determine the maximum size for an accessory building/
structure.

1. Rear yard measurement:

a. Rear yard measurement shall begin at a point on the property line
parallel to the rear wall plane of the building at the most adjacent
rear corner of the primary building, and follow the rear roofline of the
building excluding:

1) Any feature attached to the primary building such as covered
patios, bump outs, or other projections connected to the primary
structure.

b. Extends the full width of the lot.


(a
om

Rear

Yard

Side yard measurement:

a. Only applicable under a Special Exception for corner lots

b. Side yard measurement shall begin at the most rear corner of the
primary building closest to the side property line, then along the side
of the building following the wall of the building to the front yard
setback line for the property in the given zone, and then parallel to
the front plane of the building to the side property line, then following
the side property line to the rear yard.

plea ieay

I Larger
f Side
} Yard
des.

Agee serait ffi


10-34-3:

LOCATION OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:

A.

10-34-4:

For setback purposes, measurements shall be from the foundation of the

accessory structure to the property line, or to foundation of the main dwelling or

other building. Roof eaves and roof overhangs of one (1) foot or less are not
included in the required setback.

Unless placed on the ground on movable skids, accessory buildings and
structures less than 200 square feet may not encroach onto any public utility or other
easement. However, as the sole responsibility of the property owner, construction
may occur within said easement if permission is granted from the utility companies
and any other entity holding rights to public utility or other easements on the

property.

Dripline. In no case shall the roof of any building extend over or toward an
adjacent property in a manner that will direct water from said roof onto an adjacent
property regardless of permitted setbacks.

ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS:

Except for accessory buildings and structures in Agricultural Zones that are used
for agricultural purposes, for any accessory structure 200 square feet or larger in
size all facades facing the street shall either match the main finish materials of the
principle structure including colors, and roof lines, or be finished with one or more of
the following materials:

1. Stucco, cementitious fiber board siding, brick, cedar shake shingles, or
stone or synthetic/ cultured stone

2. Non-street facing sides of the accessory building shall be finished with
either the same materials as listed above, or prefinished and painted metal
siding.

3: Roofing shall be made of materials desiqned for such application and shall

match the material and/or color of the main structure on the property,
including: composition asphalt/fiberglass shingles, wood shakes, slate, tile, or
similar appearing materials, standing seam metal roof systems and metal
shingles. Galvanized metal surfaces, reflective surfaces, or reuse of materials
that are not originally designed as an exterior wall or roof finish material are
not permitted.


B.

10-34-5:

Prohibited exterior materials for all accessory buildings and structures: Exposed
plywood or particle board, or similar unfinished materials, and non-rigid materials
(i.e. canvas, coated canvas, and similar).

Accessory structure openings, such as a minimum of one windows, or doors, or
skylight, or other architectural opening feature shall be required on all elevations
visible from the street.

Accessory buildings and structures shall be maintained in such a manner as to
not detract from the existing neighborhood. Setback areas between accessory
structures and property lines shall be maintained in a weed and debris-free
condition.

STANDARDS UNIQUE TO BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES IN AGRICULTURAL

ZONES

Accessory buildings and structures used for agricultural purooses must be
designed such that the primary function of the structure is the keeping of farm
animals, and the storage of feed, farm equipment, etc. for the lot on which the
building or structure is constructed. Floor plans must be provided to show that more
than sixty (60%) percent of the building will be for agricultural purposes related to the
property on which the structure is located.

Agricultural structures with animals shall not be located within forty (40) feet of
any residential dwelling. Chicken coops shall not be placed closer than 15’ to the
home on which the coop is located and no closer than 25’ from a home on an

adjacent lot.

Agricultural structures may utilize such exterior building materials that are

appropriate to the use.

1. Accessory structures which qualify as agricultural structures, as per 10-34-
5(A), are not subject to architectural regulations in this chapter, however, all
roofing shall be non-reflective.

2. Greenhouses are not required to match the building materials of the
primary structure.


CHART 10-34 ACCESSORY BULIDING AND STRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Accessory Building and Structure Requirements

Distance From
Primary Structure

ACCESSORY BUILDING SIZE

SMALL
<=200 SF

MEDIUM LARGE
201 - 400 SF

401 SF +

In Rear Yard - From
Side and Rear
Property Line
(Interior, NOT
adjacent to street)

1’ Min

3' Min if height is <= 16'. See 'Height' table below for buildings taller
than 16'.

Side Yard Adjacent to
Street

1' Min if height <= 8'
If height > 8’ match
primary building

Match required primary building setback

Buliding on Same Lot

setback
From Any Building > bee: \.
200 SF on Adjacent att height < 8, 6
4' if height > 8
Lot
From Accessory 0 g'

Front Yard

5' Behind Front Yard Setback for Primary Structure, and 5' Behind Front of Primary

Structure

In Side Yard -
Between Front and
Rear Yards

When structure is in rear yard, see above, 'In Rear Yard.

Same as Required for Primary Structure;

0 - 10,000 SF Lot 16'

10,001 - 21,780 SF Lot

21,781 + SF Lot

16

25' or Height of Primary Structure,
Whichever is Less. For every foot above
16' additional foot in interior side and rear

yard setback required.

25' or Height of Primary
Structure, Whichever is
Less. For every foot
above 16' additional foot
in interior side and rear
yard setback required.

30'; For every foot above 20' additional foot
in interior side and rear yard setback
required.


0 - 6,000 SF Lot

SIZE: (MAX TOTAL LOT COVERAGE FOR ALL STRUCTURES)
15% of Rear Yards or 75% of Footprint of Home, Whichever is Less

6,001 - 11,000 SF Lot

25% of Rear Yards or 75% of Footprint of Home, Whichever is Less

11,001 - 21,780 SF Lot

25% of Rear Yards or 80% of Footprint of Home, Whichever is Less

21,781 - 43,560 SF Lot

40% of Rear Yards or 125% of Footprint of Home, Whichever is Less

> 43,560 SF Lot

40% of Side and Rear Yards

10-34-6: SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS

A. In order to allow flexibility for specific unique circumstances addressed in Section B

below, an application for a special exception to specific requirements of this chapter may

be approved. In determining the appropriateness and potential impacts of a special

exception, additional mitigating requirements, conditions, and limitations may be imposed

to prevent or minimize adverse effects on adjoining properties. These mitigating conditions

may include, but are not limited to, the use, construction, operation, appearance, location,

screening, and landscaping, as may be required as part of a special exception.

B. When allowed:

1. Application for a special exception to the provisions required for accessory

structures as established by this Chapter (10-34) shall only be allowed under the

following circumstances:

a.
1)
2)
3)
4)

The applicant’s lot has unique characteristics which may include:
Irregular lot shape (see definitions)

Topography which creates a unique situation

Flexibility in determining side/rear/front yards.

Lot adjacency to other commercial/industrial/ open space land uses on at
least two (2) sides of the property.

2. When the use of the building is strictly for Agricultural purposes and the applicant

can demonstrate the following:

a. Absolute need for higher, or larger building to accommodate equipment
used specific to the property for agriculture.
3. Additional height of an accessory structure which is not intended for agricultural
use shall be allowed for architectural purposes only.
4. In cases of required parking, if a rear yard does not allow for a two car garage

that accommodates the requirement for single family parking, a structure no larger

than 520 square feet shall be allowed for said use.

5. Corner lots as follows:


C.

a. If the rear yard is less than twenty-five (25) feet.

b. For corner lots >= 10,000 square feet:

1) Ifthe existing rear yard setback is more than twenty (20) feet shallower
than the nearest adjacent interior lot with the same orientation a special
exception can be considered.

Cc. When a special exception for a corner lot is permitted, the applicant may
include the rear and larger side yard in the calculation to determine the
maximum size for an accessory structure. No additional exemptions are
permitted with this exception for architectural (except agricultural), setback
requirements.

d. Special exceptions for corner lots shall be approved by the Planning
Director. The Planning Director may request Planning Commission
consideration when extenuating conditions exist.

The Planning Commission shall approve a special exception to the specific

requirements of this chapter, except as provided in this chapter, with conditions and

limitations as may be appropriate. Adjoining property owners shall receive notice of said

hearing for a special exception no less than ten (10) days prior to the public hearing.

The following shall be considered by the Planning Commission in determining the

appropriateness of a special exception:

Ml.

The special exception does not materially impact the goals and policies of the City’s
General Plan.

The special exception is not in conflict with adopted restrictive covenants governing the
property.

The proposed exception for the structure is in keeping with the development block
pattern of the area.

The special exception will not have an adverse effect upon public health, safety, or
general welfare of the community.

Additional height and size greater than the maximum allowed can be mitigated by:

a. Requiring additional setback from the property line or adjacent buildings

b. Requiring all sides of the accessory structure to match the home or
comply with 10-34-4(A)(1).

C. Requiring additional landscaping buffers and plantings to screen the

building from adjacent properties.


d. Impacts to adjoining properties can be mitigated by adjusting architectural
elements, i.e. reducing or eliminating doors, windows, etc. that are visible
from adjoining properties and streets.

6. The accessory structure does not violate the sight visibility triangle on corner lots.

7. Other development requirements could be required that will further mitigate and are
directly associated with the impact of the special exception.

8. In cases where an exception is requested due to an irregularly shaped lot, the
Commission shail consider the following:

a. Whether the irregularity of the lot shape restricts, or limits the placement of
an accessory structure compared to a regular lot of similar size.

b. It shall be the burden of the applicant to clearly demonstrate the hardship
due to the shape of the lot.

Cc. The requested exception cannot be considered to exceed the size, or
height of any accessory structure except as provided in this chapter.

d. Whether the impact of the exception will place an undue impact on

adjacent properties which would not be typical if the lot was a reqular shape.

Chapter 3
DEFINITIONS

ACCESSORY BUILDING or STRUCTURE: A detached, subordinate building or structure
clearly incidental to the main use, or structure building in area and purpose, and located upon
the same lot occupied by the main building. An accessory building or structure also includes a
building clearly incidental to an agriculture or animal care land use located on a lot in an

agricultural zone, which lot meets the minimum lot size for such zone and is not under less
than half acre in area.

HEIGHT, BUILDING: The overall vertical distance above the lowest approved finish grade at
any point on the perimeter of a building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the
highest point of the ridgeline of a pitched, hipped. or mansard roof.

a) Finished grade shall be the ground elevation determined during final grading of
the subdivision or natural (unmodified) grade of a property not in a subdivision,
assuming that all grading, cuts, fills, or other man-made alterations are in
compliance with City requirements. When uncertainty exists, the Community


Development Director, in consultation with the City Engineer and Planning Director
as necessary, will determine such based upon the best information available.

LOT, IRREGULAR: Flag lots, pie and reverse pie shaped lots, or any lot that is not considered
a “regular” lot.

Street Street Street
Pie
Flag Reverse
Pie

LOT, REGULAR: Any generally square. or rectangular shaped lot or similar to shown below,
and any lot that can accommodate a “regular” shaped lot within it which meets the minimum
zone size requirements:

Street treet Street

Irregular Lot
Accommodating
Regular Lot

Square _ Rectangle

Other amendment’s in Title 10:


10-9-7: OTHER APPLICABLE REGULATIONS

D. Maximum building height:

Zone Residential | Agricultural Non-Agricultural Accessory Building
AllA O5! Won 16° except:
Zones Hf-Yo-acre-orlarger-20'

if-Y/o-acre-orlargerand side-and-rearsetbacks-are10!:
25'

E. Maximum lot coverage:

Zone

Lot Coverage

28%-of rear yard


A-1 70% of lot area

ZOne =Font SideYard Rear Yard
“eee
Zones Accessory-building in-side-orfront-yard-ofmain | Gornertots-which+earon
bidildincs :; , main-building | Side-yard-of anothertot:
Side-yard-nextto-dwelling-on-adjacentlot10'
Corner lots: 20' from street
(Ord-2017-54, 12-43-2017)

10-11-8: OTHER APPLICABLE REGULATIONS:
B. Minimum yard for residential and-accessory buildings:

Zone Front Side Yard _ Rear Yard
Yard
FR-1 and FR- | 40' | 1 side yard: 25' _ Single-family dwelling: 40'
2.5
Both side yards: 50' — Any portion of uncovered or covered patio or
| deck: 40'
_ Corner lot: 35' from
| street |
FR-5 50' 1 side yard: 30' _ Same as above
FR-10 |
| FR-20 Both side yards: 60" |
| |
| Corner lot: 40' from |
| street
RC “None _| None None _

D. Maximum building height:

Zone | Main | Accessory Building

Building
AllFR Zones — 35' | + story-up-to-16"andless-than-top-elevation-ofmain-building
RC | See subsection 10-11-6C13 of this chapter

L

10-10-7: OTHER APPLICABLE REGULATIONS:

CO Mini rr buildinas:
| - Cornenrots-which
‘ fa saa a inside eo front yard snathe —7 = of
Sid , well ‘i
R2 | Determined-with | 3! 3
plannedunit
development approval
RM 49! —s' —3'
| We isingd W6iegeavain wat |c
: ‘sid atadicinl

E. Maximum building height:

| Zone Main Accessory Building
| Building |


R-1-10 | 35' | 4-story-up- to-16"and_less-than top elevation-of main-building
R115 _| : 7 _ a
'R-1-21 | 35) 46'-except:
R-1-43 -
if-/2-aere-orlarger-20'

F. Maximum lot coverage:

Zone | Lot Coverage |

| R-M None _

40-29-39: SECOND KITCHEN-IN-A-SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING:

6.—A-second_kitchen-shall exist only-as-_part-of the-primary structure-and-shall-not-be installed
in-an-accessory building.

Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2022-03
SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10 PERTAINING TO REGULATIONS
FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES (FILE NO. Z2021-054)

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
Lorin Palmer x
Jared Henderson Absent
Teddy Hodges xX xX
Sherrie Ohrn x
Steven Shields x

TOTALS 5

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 234 day of
February, 2022, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2022-03
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION
This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 23" day
of February, 2022, with a short summary being published on the Utah Public Notice website. |

hereby certify and attest that the foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings
with respect to the ordinance number referenced above.

Signed this 23" day of February, 2022

4s)
kom, City Recorder


