HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2022-15

Z2020-059 - ORDINANCE TO AMEND TITLE 10 OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE
REGARDING ELECTRONIC SIGNS

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to state law, may adopt an ordinance to
establish land development regulations, which includes the adoption or amendment of zoning
regulations; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
recommend any zoning regulation amendment to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days prior to
the said public hearing to recommend any zoning regulation amendment to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, on February 17,2022, the required Planning Commission public hearing notice
was posted in public locations as required by State noticing provisions for a meeting to be held on
March 3, 2022, at 7:00; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission made a recommendation for the zoning regulation
amendment in a public meeting held on March 3, 2022, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council Chamber;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the City Council to
consider the zoning regulation amendment and Planning Commission recommendation in a public
meeting; and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on April 13, 2022, at 7:00 p.m. to
discuss the zoning regulation amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the zoning regulation amendment, which was recommended by the Planning
Commission and documented in City File number Z2020-059;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council as follows:
A. Title 10, Chapter 27, Section 11 of the Herriman City Code be amended as set forth in

the attached Exhibit A. All other sections and provisions of Title 10 shall be unaffected by this
amendment.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2022-15 shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be published
or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 13" day of April 2022.
HERRIMAN

Lf

ATTEST: )tayet Lorin Palmer

HERRIMAN

i; CA As

SS. 1999 ty #!
‘ be of ug

>
SS


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2022-15
SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10 OF THE HERRIMAN CITY CODE
REGARDING ELECTRONIC SIGNS

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
Lorin Palmer x
Jared Henderson x
Teddy Hodges x x
Sherrie Ohm xX xX
Steven Shields X

TOTALS | | 5

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 13" day of
April, 2022, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO, 2022-15

CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION

This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 13" day
of April, 2022, with a short summary being published on the Utah Public Notice website. I
hereby certify and attest that the foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings
with respect to the ordinance number referenced above.

orate
cs “0 r po. mS.
YS oe
Ke
Hen RI MAN

Signed this 13" day of April, 2022

Jackie, . om, Cit¥ Recorder


Exhibit A

The following excerpt from Herriman City Code has been selected to provide context for the
intended amendments. Only the strike-through and underline portions of the text are amended by this
Ordinance. All other regulations contained within Title 10 of the Herriman City Code shall remain

in effect.

City File No. Z2020-059 — Land Development Code Amendment for Electronic Signs

10-27-11: Electronic Signs
Electronic signs are permitted subject to the following limitations:

A. Where Allowed: Electronic signs shall be allowed only in the commercial, mixed use, and
manufacturing zones.
B. Location:

1.

Electronic signs which are not part of a monument sign or an installation where any
portion of the electronic sign is six (6) feet above finished grade shall not be permitted
within five hundred (500) feet of the nearest boundary line of a parcel located in a
residential use zone.

Electronic signs which are part of a monument sign or an installation less than six (6) feet
above finished grade, and the display is parallel to a residentially zoned property. are not
permitted within one-hundred-fifty (150) feet of the corresponding lot line of the subject
property.

Electronic signs within one-hundred-fifty (150) feet of Mountain View Corridor (MVC)
or an arterial road, where the digital display is six (6) feet above finished grade, shall not
be within two-hundred-twenty-five (225) feet of a residential dwelling which is parallel
to the sign face.

Electronic signs located within an “Outdoor Advertising Corridor,” as defined in the Utah
Outdoor Advertising Act, shall comply with all regulations of Chapter 10 of this title,
Utah Code Section 72-5-501 et sequentia, and the Utah Administrative Code R933-2.

C. Size: The changeable sign copy of an electronic sign shall not exceed seventy-five percent
(75%) of the sign area, and the remainder of the sign shall be of a permanent character as
otherwise required under this chapter.

D. Malfunctions: Any electronic sign with electrical or lighting components operating in an
erratic, broken, or damaged fashion shall have a default mechanism to turn off the sign

within twenty-four (24) hours of a reported malfunction.-be-turned-off- er removed—and shall
lade tee ; HancHon.

E. B

rightness: Alt eleetronic-signs-shall net exceed-0.5 feoteandie,as- measured in-a-straightine

1.

Sign illumination levels for digital signs shall never, at maximum display intensity,
exceed 0.3 foot-candle over ambient lighting conditions when measured at the distance
based on the formula of the square root of the product of the area of the display

multiplied by one hundred (100) [ \/Avea of display x 100 ].
All permitted electronic signs shall be equipped with a sensor or other device that

automatically determines the ambient illumination and is programmed to automatically
dim according to ambient light conditions, or that can be adjusted to comply with the 0.3


foot-candle measurements. The applicant shall submit a photometric matrix (showing the
dispersal in foot-candles) showing that the sign meets all the requirements of this code.

F, shake Sine ane Jtansitions: Jn aaah copy Sspiayed en electronic-signs Shall bo-statior The

1. The inclusion of text or video that flashes, scrolls. appears to flash. or strobes is

prohibited.
2. Images shall have a minimum eight (8) second dwell time.

a. Transitions between images shall be no less than three (3) seconds. In order to better
regulate changing images, a fade-in and fade-out transition must be used. The fade-in
and fade-out prevents a dark image from transitioning abruptly to a light image and
vice versa, thus creating a flash or strobe-like effect.

3. Digital signs installed within one-hundred-fifty (150) feet of Mountain View Corridor or
an arterial road shall have image dwell times of eight (8) seconds or more, and the actual
message rotation is accomplished in three (3) seconds or less. Transitions must be done in
a manner where the transition between images have similar background colors and
brightness. Digital signs within one-hundred-fifty (150) feet of Mountain View Corridor
or an arterial road are not subject to subsection G of this chapter.

G. Frequency of Changes: An electronic sign on which sign copy changes more than four (4)
times per minute (once every 15 seconds) shall be deemed an animated sign and is

prohibited.


