HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2022-13

Z2022-020 -ORDINANCE TO AMEND CITY CODE TITLE 10 REGARDING
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REVIEW STANDARDS

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to Utah State Code, may adopt an ordinance to
establish land development regulations, which includes the adoption or amendment of zoning
regulations or map; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
recommend any zoning regulation amendment to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days prior to
the said public hearing to recommend any zoning regulation amendments to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, a notice of a Planning Commission public hearing on a zoning regulation
amendment was posted in three public places on February 21, 2022, for a meeting to be held on
March 3, 2022, at 7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission made a recommendation for the zoning regulation
amendment in a public meeting held on March 3, 2022, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council Chamber;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the City Council to
consider the zoning regulation amendment and Planning Commission recommendation in a public
meeting; and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on April 13, 2022, at 7:00 p.m. to
discuss the zoning regulation amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the zoning regulation amendment, which was recommended by the Planning
Commission and documented in City File number Z2022-020;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council as follows:

Title 10 of Herriman City Code shall be amended as set forth in the attached Exhibit A, and
all other sections and provisions of Title 10 shall remain unaffected by this amendment.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2022-13, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be published
or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 13" day of April 2022.
HERRIMAN

ep

ATTEST: Mayor Lorin Palmer


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2022-13
SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10 OF THE HERRIMAN CITY CODE
AMENDING THE CONDITIONAL USE REVIEW STANDARDS (FILE NO. Z2022-020)

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
Lorin Palmer x
Jared Henderson xX
Teddy Hodges x
Sherrie Ohrn xX x
Steven Shields x X
TOTALS 5

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 13" day of
April, 2022, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2022-13
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION
This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 13" day
of April, 2022, with a short summary being published on the Utah Public Notice website. I

hereby certify and attest that the foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings
with respect to the ordinance number referenced above.

Signed this 13 day of April, 2022

Jae aK ins UOeweee


Exhibit A

10-5-11: CONDITIONAL USES:
A. Purpose: This section sets forth procedures for considering and approving conditional uses.

B. Authority: The Planning Commission is authorized to approve conditional uses as provided in this section.

C. Initiation: An application for a conditional use may be submitted by a property owner or lessee as
provided in this section. An agent of a property owner or lessee shall provide a notarized authorization.

D. Procedure: A conditional use application shall be considered and processed as provided in this section and
as required by applicable provisions of sections 10-5-4, "General Requirements", 10-5-5, "Public Hearings
and Meetings", and 10-5-6, "General Decision-Making Standards", of this chapter.

1. An application shall be submitted to the Community Development Director or designee along with
any applicable fee established by the City's schedule of fees. The application shall include at least the
following information:

a. The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant and the applicant's agent, if any;
b. The address and parcel identification of the subject property;

c. The zone, zone boundaries, and present use of the subject property;

d. A description of the proposed conditional use;

e. A site plan which meets the requirements of section 10-5-12 of this chapter;

f. Traffic impact analysis, if required by the City Engineer or the Planning Commission;

g. A statement by the applicant demonstrating how the conditional use permit request meets the
approval standards of subsection E of this section;

h. Such other and further information or documentation as the Community Development Director or
designee may reasonably deem necessary for proper consideration and disposition of a particular
conditional use application.

2. After an application is determined to be complete, the Community Development Director or designee
shall:

a. Give public notice as required by section 10-5-5 of this chapter, Utah Code section 10-9a-205
(Notice of public hearings and public meetings on adoption or modification of land use

regulation); and

b. Prepare a staff report evaluating the application.

3. The Planning Commission shall hold a public meeting and after due consideration shall approve,
approve with conditions, or deny the application pursuant to the standards set forth in subsection E of
this section. Any conditions of approval shall be limited to conditions needed to conform the site plan

to approval standards.

4. A record of all conditional use permits shall be maintained in the Office of the Community
Development Director or designee.

ate Q hea annraio ~ and
se =, Ses" 0 =

E. Approval Standards: +4 e—standa alla : 2 2 ienaluse. A
conditional use permit shall run with the land and may require the applicant to record documents to that

effect. The Planning Commission and staff, in their review capacity, may impose site plan modifications
and conditions to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a conditional use. All
conditional uses shall meet the following standards:

= =


The proposed conditional use shall comply with City. State, and Federal codes as applicable to the site

where the conditional use will be located.

The proposed conditional use is consistent with the applicable objectives, goals. and policies of the
General Plan.

The proposed conditional use_and associated plans include substantial mitigation of reasonably
anticipated detrimental effects arising from the conditional use, including, but not limited to:

a. Detrimental effects of decreased street service levels and/or traffic patterns including the need for
street modifications such as dedicated turn lanes, traffic control devices, safety, street widening,
curb, gutter and sidewalks, location of ingress/egress, lot surfacing and design of off-street parking
and circulation, loading docks, as well as compliance with off-street parking standards, including
other reasonable mitigation as determined by a qualified traffic engineer.


b. Detrimental effects on the adequacy of utility systems, service delivery, and capacities. including
the need for such items as relocating, upgrading, providing additional capacity, or preserving
existing systems, including other reasonable mitigation as determined by the City’s engineering
staff, contracted engineers, and utility service providers.

c. Detrimental effects on connectivity and safety for pedestrians and bicyclists.

d. Detrimental effects by the use due to its nature including (1) noise that exceeds sound levels
normally found within the neighborhood or surrounding zone, (2) odors beyond what is normally
considered acceptable within the neighborhood or surrounding zone, and (3) environmental
impacts such as dust. fumes, smoke, odor, noise, vibrations, chemicals, toxins, pathogens, gases,
heat, light, electromagnetic disturbances, and radiation. Detrimental effects by the use may also
include hours of operation and the potential to create an attractive nuisance.

e. Detrimental effects that increase the risk of contamination of or damage to adjacent properties and
injury or sickness to people arising from, but not limited to, waste disposal, fire safety. geologic
hazards. soil or slope conditions, liquefaction potential, site grading/topography, storm
drainage/flood control, high ground water, sensitive lands, environmental health hazards. or
wetlands, as determined by City Engineer, City geologist and other qualified specialists.

f. Detrimental effects of modifications to or installation of signs and exterior lighting that conflict
with neighborhood compatibility.

g. Detrimental effects arising from incompatible designs in terms of use, scale, intensity, height,
mass, setbacks, character, construction, solar access, landscaping, fencing, screening, and
architectural design and exterior detailing/finishes and colors within the neighborhood in which
the conditional use will be located.

h. Detrimental effects on the tax base and property values.

i. Detrimental effects on the current level of economy in governmental expenditures.

j. Detrimental effects on emergency fire service and emergency vehicle access.

k. Detrimental effects on usable open space.

|. Inadequate maintenance of the property and structures in perpetuity including performance
measures, compliance reviews, and monitoring.

3. Conditions may be imposed as necessary to conform the proposed conditional use permit to the
requirements set forth in subsection E2 of this section. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in
the approval authorizing the conditional use.

F. Appeal: Any person adversely affected by a final decision of the Planning Commission regarding a
conditional use may appeal that decision to the Appeal Authority as provided in section 10-5-24 of this
chapter.

G. Effect of Approval: Approval of a conditional use shall authorize an applicant to apply for any other

authorization or permit required under this title which first requires a conditional use. Approval of a
conditional use shall not be deemed an approval of any other procedure or permit required by this title or
this Code.

1. An approved conditional use is for the benefit of the property where the use is located and shall not be
construed as personalty of the applicant or property owner.

2. Unless otherwise provided under this title, and subject to the provisions relating to amendment,
revocation, or expiration of a conditional use permit, a conditional use permit shall be of indefinite
duration and shall run with the land.

H. Amendment: The procedure for amending a conditional use shall be the same as the original procedure set
forth in this section.

I. Revocation: A conditional use may be revoked as provided in subsection 10-7-7F of this title.

1. In addition to the grounds set forth in subsection 10-7-7F of this title, any of the following shall be
grounds for revocation of a conditional use:

a. The use for which a permit was granted has ceased for one year or more;

b. The holder or user of a permit has failed to comply with the conditions of approval or any
City, State, or Federal law governing the conduct of the use;

c. The holder or user of the permit has failed to construct or maintain the site as shown on an
approved site plan; or

d. The operation of the use or the character of the site has been found to be a nuisance or a public
nuisance by a court of competent jurisdiction in any civil or criminal proceeding.

2. No conditional use permit shall be revoked against the wishes of the holder or user of the permit
without first giving such person an opportunity to appear before the Planning Commission and show
cause as to why the permit should not be amended or revoked. Revocation of a permit shall not limit
the City's ability to initiate or complete other legal proceedings against the holder or user of the
permit.

J. Expiration: A conditional use permit shall expire and have no further force or effect if the building,
activity, construction or occupancy authorized by the permit is not commenced within two (2) years after
approval or if abandoned. Abandonment may be presumed to have occurred if:

1. The use has been discontinued for one year or more; or

2. The primary structure associated with the conditional use remains vacant for a period of one year.

