HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2022-24

22021-0351 -ORDINANCE TO AMEND TITLE 10 OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE TITLE
10 IN REGARDS TO THE MANUFACTURING ZONES INCLUDING THE ADOPTION
OF THE M-2 ZONE.

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to state law, may adopt an ordinance to
establish land development regulations, which includes the adoption or amendment of zoning
regulations; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
recommend any zoning regulation amendment to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days prior
to the said public hearing to recommend any zoning regulation amendment to the City Council;
and

WHEREAS, on May 24, 2021 the required Planning Commission public hearing notice
was posted in public locations as required by State noticing provisions for a meeting to be held on
June 3, 2021, at 7:00; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission made a recommendation for the zoning regulation
amendment in a public meeting held on June 3, 2021, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council Chamber;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the City Council
to consider the zoning regulation amendment and Planning Commission recommendation in a
public meeting; and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on June 8, 2022 at 7:00 p.m. to
discuss the zoning regulation amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the zoning regulation amendment, which was recommended by the Planning
Commission and documented in City File number Z2021-051;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council as follows:

A. Title 10, of the Herriman City Code be amended as set forth in the attached Exhibit A.
All other sections and provisions of Title 10 shall be unaffected by this amendment.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 22-24, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be published
or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 8" day of June 2022.

HERRIMAN

—_—

ATTEST: M orin Palmer

HERRIMAN
cy

‘ 1999 | a

“ec of US

J eect So


Exhibit A

The following excerpt from Herriman City Code has been selected to provide context for the
intended amendments. Only the strike-through and underline portions of the text are amended by
this Ordinance. All other regulations contained within Title 10 of the Herriman City Code shall
remain in effect.

10-13-1: Purpose

10-13-2: Scope

10-13-3: Definitions

10-13-4: Uses Allowed

10-13-5: Development Approval
10-13-6: Development Standards
10-13-7: Other Applicable Regulations
10-13-1: PURPOSE:

A. T-M Zone: The purpose of the T-M Zone is to provide for and encourage the development
of well-planned and designed technological and manufacturing parks characterized by uses such
as research, development, office, data centers, light manufacturing, fabrication, processing,
storage, warehousing and wholesale distribution. These zones are to be located in proximity to
adequate transportation facilities and infrastructure so that the needs of these users may be met in
an efficient manner with consideration to adjoining uses, whether uses are existing or included in
the General Plan.

B. M-1 Zone: The purpose of the M-1 Zone is to provide areas in the City for uses such as
research, development, office, data centers, light manufacturing, fabrication. processing, storage.
warehousing and wholesale distribution uses. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)

B. M-2 Zone: The purpose of the zone is intended to ensure that the City continues to
encourage a broad mix of industry which requires large areas for uses which may have some
noise or other byproducts, but does not pose a threat to the environmental, safety, or aesthetic
quality of the community.

10-13-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to real property located in a manufacturing zone as
shown on the official zoning map. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)

10-13-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words and phrases in this chapter, including uses, are defined in chapter 3 of this title.
(Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)

10-13-4: USES ALLOWED:

A. Permitted And Conditional Uses: Permitted and conditional uses allowed in manufacturing
zones shall be as set forth on the table of uses in chapter 16 of this title. Permitted and
conditional uses are indicated by "P" or "C", respectively. Uses not permitted are indicated by an
empty box.

B. Accessory Uses: Permitted and conditional uses set forth in chapter 16 of this title on the
table of uses shall be deemed to include accessory uses and activities customarily associated with

and incidental and subordinate to a permitted or conditional use, subject to applicable provisions
of this title, including section 10-29-5 of this title.

C. Prohibited Uses: Any use not shown on the table of uses shall be prohibited unless the
Community Development Director determines the use is substantially the same as a permitted or
conditional use as provided in section 10-5-10, "Permitted Uses", of this title.

D. Businesses And Uses; Conditions:

1. Metal buildings shall be prohibited.

2. Outdoor storage of materials, products and equipment in the T-M Zone shall be allowed
only when incidental to an allowed use.

3. All outside storage shall be screened by a minimum six foot (6') high decorative precast
masonry wall consistent with fencing requirement set forth in chapter 21 of this title. No storage
of material may exceed the height of the provided screening fence. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)

10-13-5: DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL:

A. Generally: The use and development of land located in manufacturing zones shall be
approved according to applicable administration and development review procedures set forth in
chapter 5 of this title.

B. Site Plan Approval: Any development in manufacturing zones shall be subject to approval
of a site plan as provided in section |0-5-12 of this title.

C. Conditional Use Approval: The conditional use permit procedure set forth in chapter 5 of
this title shall be applied to industrial development over one acre in the M-1 or M-2 Zone.

D. Ownership: All master planned development shall be under unified control at the time of
application and shall be planned and developed as a whole to provide for full supervision and
contro! of development, and to ensure conformance with these provisions and all conditions
imposed upon development plans.

E. Master Plan Required For T-M Zone: All development in the T-M Zone shall require
submission of a Master Plan for review by the Planning Commission.

1. The Master Plan review shall include, but not be limited to, architectural design and
theme, building materials, building elevations, lighting, signage, landscaping, parking, vehicular,
bike and pedestrian access and paths, accessory structures, nuisance factors, and natural and
manmade hazards. The conditional use permit procedure set forth in section 10-5-11 of this title
shall be used to approve the Master Plan.

2. The Master Plan shall cover at least fifty (50) acres and shall establish where types of
uses will be located and the compatibility of adjacent uses in the development. The Master Plan
should create natural buffering through the location of compatible uses and should include the
following elements:

a. Building orientation, size, height, and type;

b. A Land Use Plan that determines where technology, manufacturing, office, and
commercial uses will be located;

c. Identification of buffering, screening, or distance used to mitigate possible
noncompatible uses;

d. Parking areas, internal traffic patterns, and vehicle access to the site, including
designated truck routes;

e. Engineering issues, including grading, drainage, sewer, and other utilities; and

f. Compatibility with uses on adjacent properties, whether uses are existing or included in
the General Plan.

F. Zoning Conditions: Zoning conditions, as provided in subsection 10-5-8F of this title, may
be placed on property at the time of zoning to restrict or prohibit uses or building heights that
would not be compatible with adjoining uses, notwithstanding whether such uses are existing or
future uses as shown in the General Plan.

G. Development Agreement: Development in the T-M Zone may require a development
agreement to be reviewed and approved by the City Council. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)

10-13-6: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

A. Generally: The use and development of land located in manufacturing zones shall conform
to the standards set forth in this section and in section 1 0-13-7, chart 10-13 of this chapter except
as may be authorized by another provision of this title.

B. Design Criteria: All development, including accessory buildings, in the T-M Zone and all
retail development in the M-1 Zone shall comply with the development standards set forth in
section 10-12-6 of this title. The following additional requirements shall apply in the T-M Zone:

1. Development shall conform to the Master Plan approved pursuant to subsection 10-13-5E

of this chapter and any applicable zoning conditions.
2. Metal buildings shall be prohibited. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)

10-13-7: OTHER APPLICABLE REGULATIONS:
To the extent that use and development of land located in manufacturing zones includes any
matter governed by other applicable regulations set forth in this title, such regulations shall apply
in addition to the requirements of this chapter.

CHART 10-13

MANUFACTURING ZONE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

A. Minimum lot area and width:

_ Zone | Lot Area | Lot Width
TM | None | None
| M-1 None None -

B. Minimum yard for all buildings:

Zone Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard

_T-M | Determined as part [Determined as part of Master Plan, but in no case less than 30'
of Master Plan
M-1 | None None, except as follows: None, except 20° when adjacent to
| residential zone, or match the height of
Any commercial or industrial the building.
building or structure from a
street: 20'

| When adjacent to residential
zone, or match the height of the
building. |

4 4

M-2 10 Feet None, except as follows:

Any commercial or industrial
building or structure from a
street: 20'

When adjacent to residential
zone, or match the height of the

building.

C. Maximum building height:

None, except when adjacent to
residential zone, then setback must equal

height of building.

Zone All Buildings -

| T-M Determined as part of Master Plan

| M-1 Nene 50’ :

| M-2 | None, except 50’ when adjacent to non-manufacturing zone.

D. Lot coverage for all buildings:

Zone - | Maximum Coverage
T-M 7 70% of lot or parcel
M-1 & M-2 80% of lot or parcel

CHAPTER 16: TABLE OF USES
SECTION: 10-16-1: USES

t
N

Agricultural:
Agricultural business

Agricultural processing
Agriculture

Cannabis production
establishment

Soil products

Stable, public

Public and Civic:

Government service

Operations center

Resource recycling collection
oint

Charter school

School, vocational

wlalalz
rma jo le

NIM |N
ln Ia

QO}
Q |r
la?

las)

Io |ro | 40
co


Utility, major

Utility substation

Q!O

‘olle)

lala

Commercial:

Adsperileisee

Banquet catering

Bar establishment

Beer wholesaler

Brewery manufacturing

Io ro |ro |

Hotel

Off premise beer retailer

Package agency

IFO |Iro |

Reception center

Restaurant - beer only

Restaurant - full service

eon eo nn eck leon lao laoB tai tack tack ba)

State liquor store

Tavern

Animal care service

reporolhors!

Bank or financial institution

QPUPRIQpPul yl oul uy ul tl} | |

Business equipment rental and
sales

Car wash

Construction services and sales

Convenience store

IS IS WC Ir

Data center

Fireworks stand

Food truck

Garage, public

Gas and fuel, storage and sales

Gasoline service station

QIQ!TIDIAIN|Q| IAQ}

IQA JQ Poppy ilo

Hotel/ motel

‘olle)

Kennel

Media service

Medical or dental laboratory

Medical service

Office, professional

plalala

Parking lot

Ml dlolPalain

ro}

Personal care service

Personal instruction service

Printing

WIO

Io}

I}

Recreation and entertainment,
indoor

IQ


Recreation and entertainment,
outdoor

Research service

Restaurant fast-food

Restaurant, general

QO Te

Sexually oriented business

Temporary building

‘o)

Transportation servcie

Vehicle and equipment rental

MIDIQJQ!TIAQ!VIN

SIO IATIA LP IAI IAQ

Vehicle and equipment repair,
general

aw]

Warehouse, self service

aw]

molt ine]

Wireless telecommunication
facility

aw]

Io

Industrial:

Freight terminal

Laundry service

Manufacturing

Manufacturing, light

Recreational vehicle storage yard

Ralalalwin

ONO HPO IPO I

S|

Wholesale and warehousing,
general

OQ

Wholesale and warehousing,
limited

I-o


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2022-24
SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE TO AMEND TITLE 10 OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE TITLE
10 INREGARDS TO THE MANUFACTURING ZONES INCLUDING THE ADOPTION OF
THE M-2 ZONE

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
Lorin Palmer x
Jared Henderson xX X
Teddy Hodges 4 xX
Sherrie Ohrn x
Xx

Steven Shields

TOTALS | 5

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 8" day of
June, 2022, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2022-24
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION

This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 8" day of
June, 2022, with a short summary being published on the Utah Public Notice website. I hereby
certify and attest that the foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings with
respect to the ordinance number referenced above.

Signed this 8" day of June, 2022

$ Se

oO». J
Xe orp Fle, IA

lo
HERRIMAN

<< Jackie kom, lakes Recorder


