HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2022-25

Z2021-121 -ORDINANCE TO AMEND TITLE 10 OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE
REGARDING HOME OCCUPATION REGULATIONS TO ALLOW ADDITIONAL
EMPLOYEES AND INCREASE THE MAXIMUM NUMBER OF CHILDREN
IN HOME DAYCARE AND GROUP INSTRUCTION

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to state law, may adopt an ordinance to
establish land development regulations, which includes the adoption or amendment of zoning
regulations; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
recommend any zoning regulation amendment to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days prior to
the said public hearing to recommend any zoning regulation amendment to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, on February 21, 2022 the required Planning Commission public hearing notice
was posted in public locations as required by State noticing provisions for a meeting to be held on
March 3, 2021, at 7:00; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission made a recommendation for the zoning regulation
amendment in a public meeting held on March 3, 2022, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council Chamber;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the City Council to
consider the zoning regulation amendment and Planning Commission recommendation in a public
meeting; and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on June 8, 2022 at 7:00 p.m. to discuss
the zoning regulation amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the zoning regulation amendment, which was recommended by the Planning
Commission and documented in City File number 72021-121;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council as follows:
A. Title 10, Chapter 22, Sections 1 of the Herriman City Code be amended as set forth in

the attached Exhibit A. All other sections and provisions of Title 10 shall be unaffected by this
amendment.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 22-25, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be published or
posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 8" day of June 2022.

HERRIMAN
ATTEST: May rin Palmer
ecu aren oa _) opel
rom, City Recorder WO tags i ‘),

HERRIMAN
cry

‘ Sie, a! 9

3 9 of US h


10-22-1: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this chapter is to establish use and development regulations for home
occupations. These regulations are intended to ensure that limited business activities
allowed in a residence do not disturb the residential character of a neighborhood.

10-22-2 : SCOPE:
The requirements of this chapter shall apply to any home occupation conducted within the
City.

10-22-3 : DEFINITIONS:
Certain words and phrases in this chapter, including uses, are defined in chapter 3 of this
title.

10-22-4: PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED USES:

A. Permitted Uses In Agricultural And Residential Zones: Except for prohibited uses set
forth in subsection B of this section, a person residing in a dwelling located in an
Agricultural or Residential Zone may conduct a home occupation, subject to the home
occupation standards set forth in section 10-22-5 of this chapter and any other applicable
requirement under this title.

B. Prohibited Uses In All Zones: The uses set forth below involve operations not suited
to a residential area and shall be prohibited as home occupations in all zones:

Any use that requires or utilizes chemicals or hazardous materials in excess of volumes
allowed by the International Fire Code in a dwelling.

Auto body or fender work.

Junkyards, storage or recycling yards.

Manufacture or sale of ammunition, explosives, or similar products. Mortuaries and
crematoriums.

Rental or sale of vehicles exceeding two (2) rentals or sales per year. Sexually oriented
businesses.

Short term rentals.

Vehicle towing operations. (Ord. 2018-36, 11-14-2018)

10-22-5: HOME OCCUPATION STANDARDS:
The standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home occupation, except as
otherwise provided in section 10-22-6 of this chapter.

A. Accessory Buildings: Ahome-occupation shall noHnvelve the -use-of any accessory
building—Home occupations may not be operated out of an accessory structure except as
provided for in 10-22-5(E) and 10-22-6.

B. Business License: Approval of a home occupation shall not relieve a person from
obtaining a City business license as required by this Code.


C. Employees Prohibited On Premises: No person conducting
a home occupation shall permit any-employee-contractoror-other person to. do-any

Employees: Home Occupations may have up to two (2) employees who do not reside in
the home. One off-street_parking spot on the premise shall be provided for each
employee. The residential driveway (including garage) may be used provided that each of
the vehicles of the occupants of the single-family home can be parked off-street.

D. Fire Inspection: Every facility used in a home occupation may be inspected by the
Fire Department prior to initial use and shall meet Fire Department standards at all times.

E. Inventory: Products associated with a home occupation may be kept on the
premises provided that storage of such items shall be inside the dwelling or an
accessory structure located on the premise and shall be limited to a maximum of two
hundred fifty (250) cubic feet.

F. Modification Of Structures: There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior of a
dwelling indicating any use other than for a dwelling.

G. Neighborhood Disturbance: A home occupation shall not alter the residential
character of the premises or unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood by reason of construction, dust, electrical or electromagnetic wave
interference, fumes, lighting, noise, odor, smoke, sounds, traffic, vibration, or other
causes.

H. Parking:-Parking-shall-betimitedto two (2) available parking spaces on the
subject property where automobiles are customarily parked_No-additional parking

spaces shall be created_to serve a home occupation.
Parking: Additional parking may be created in areas customarily associated with

parking. Parking shall not be created in front of the home’s living space or in frontor
side yard opposite of the home's existing attached garage.

|. Product Display: There shall be no external display of products or merchandise.

J. Promotional Meetings: Promotional meetings for the purpose of selling
merchandise, taking orders, or training shall be prohibited.

K. Secondary Use Only: A home occupation shall be conducted entirely indoors and
shall be incidental and secondary to the primary use of a dwelling for residential purposes.
Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the floor area of a dwelling unit shall be used for a
home occupation.

L. Signs: See chapter 27 of this title.

M. Traffic And Access: A home occupation shall not generate pedestrian, parking, or
vehicular traffic in excess of that customarily associated with the zone where the home
occupation is located. A home occupation which generates additional

pedestrian, parking, or vehicular traffic is prohibited in a dwelling unit which shares a
common driveway or other access with an adjoining dwelling unit.

N. Utility Demand: A home occupation shall not cause a demand for public utilities in
excess of that necessarily and customarily provided for residential uses.

O. Yards: Yards surrounding a dwelling and-anyaccessory-building:

1. May be used for activities customarily conducted outside a dwelling unit, suchas
swimming lessons and child play areas; and

2. Shall not be used for storage of any materials or equipment associated with a
home occupation.

P. Hours: Home occupations involving pedestrian or vehicle traffic shall be conducted
only between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. except
as provided for in 10-22-7(A)(5).

Q. Customers: Home occupations are limited to two (2) customers at a time except as
provided for in 10-22-7(A)(2) and 10-22-8(A)(7).

10-22-6 : SPECIAL HOME OCCUPATIONS:

Notwithstanding any contrary provision in section 10-22-5 of this chapter, and subject to
the provisions of this section, a person residing in a dwelling located in an Agricultural
Zone and up to two (2) employees may conduct a special home occupation. If the lot
where the home occupation is located is larger than one acre, up to four (4) employees on
the premises may operate the home occupation. A special home occupation shall be a
conditional use in the Agricultural Zones.

A. Accessory Buildings: Work may be done in accessory buildings if any nuisance
arising from noise and odors, other than those incidental to legitimate agriculturaluses, is
mitigated.

B. Business License: A business license for a home occupation in an Agricultural
Zone shall not exceed two (2) years but may be renewed subject to applicable
provisions of this chapter.

C. Equipment: Equipment may be stored outside a building in a rearyard.

D. Parking: One additional parking space on the premises shall be provided for each
employee coming to the dwelling as a result of the home occupation. Such parking shall be
located only in a side or rear yard.

E. Restrooms: Any accessory buildings where employees work shall have restrooms for
such employees.

F. Secondary Use Only: A home occupation shall be incidental and secondary to the
use of the dwelling and the premises for agricultural purposes and shall not change the
character of the dwelling.

G. Storage: Storage of material shall be within an enclosed building.
10-22-7 : HOME DAYCARE:

A. A home daycare shall meet the home occupation standards of section 10-22-5 of
this chapter and the following additional requirements:

1. The operator of the daycare shall be a bona fide resident of the premises where
the home occupation is conducted.

2. The number of children attending a daycare center shall be no more than twelve
(12) and conform to applicable requirements of the Utah Code.

3. Outdoor play areas shall be fenced and located only in a rear yard or side yard. No
play or yard equipment shall be located in the front yard.

4. Adaycare center operated as a home occupation shall be prohibited iflocated on
a shared driveway.

5. Daycares shall be conducted only between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.

10-22-8 : HOME GROUP INSTRUCTION:

A. A home occupation for group instruction, including, but not limited to, preschools,
tumbling lessons, swimming lessons, er-dance lessons, and other types of pick up and
drop off activities, shall meet the home occupation standards of section 10-22-5 of this
chapter and the following additional requirements:

1. The iastructeroperator shall be a bona fide resident of the premises where
the home occupation is conducted.

2. For purposes of this section, a group shall be defined as three (3) ormore
students attending a session.

3. The number of children attending for preschool instruction shall conform to
applicable requirements of the Utah Code.

4. The number of classes shall be limited to two (2) sessions per day. The
sessions must be separated by at least thirty (30) minutes to allow adequate time for
pick-up and drop-off.

5. Outdoor play areas shall be fenced and located only in a rear yard or side yard.
No play or yard equipment shall be located in the front yard.

6. A home occupation for instruction shall be prohibited if located on a shared
driveway.

7. No more than eight{8}twelve (12) students may be allowed per session.

Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2022-25
SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE TO AMEND TITLE 10 OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE
REGARDING HOME OCCUPATION REGULATIONS TO ALLOW ADDITIONAL
EMPLOYEES AND INCREASE THE MAXIMUM NUMBER OF CHILDREN IN HOME
DAYCARE AND GROUP INSTRUCTION

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
Lorin Palmer x
Jared Henderson x
Teddy Hodges xX
Sherrie Ohrn x xX
Steven Shields X xX
TOTALS 5

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 8" day of
June, 2022, on a roll call vote as described above.

ORDINANCE NO. 2022-25
CITY RECORDER’S CERTIFICATE AND ATTESTATION
This ordinance was recorded in the office of the Herriman City Recorder on the 8" day of
June, 2022, with a short summary being published on the Utah Public Notice website. I hereby

certify and attest that the foregoing constitutes a true and accurate record of proceedings with
respect to the ordinance number referenced above.

Signed this 8" day of June, 2022

JaeKie/Nostkom, City Recorder


