HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-14

AMENDING TITLE 10 OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE TO CLARIFY EXISTING
ZONING DEFINITIONS AND STANDARDS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE
INTERPRETATIONS, WEEDS, LOT WIDTHS, WALLS, FENCING, OFF-STREET
PARKING, COMMERCIAL SIGNAGE, ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT LICENSE
REQUIREMENT, AND MINIMUM LANDSCAPE WIDTH IN THE AUTO MALL
SPECIAL DISTRICT.

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to Utah State Code, may adopt an ordinance
to establish land development regulations (“Zoning”), which includes the adoption or amendment
of Zoning text or map; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
recommend any Zoning text amendments to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days prior
to the said public hearing to recommend any Zoning text amendments to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, a notice of a Planning Commission public hearing on a Zoning text
amendment was posted in three (3) public locations and mailed to affected entities on June 9, 2023,
for a meeting to be held on June 21, 2023, at 7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission voted 6-0 to recommend approval of the Zoning
text amendment in a public meeting held on June 21, 2023, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council
Chamber; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the City Council
to consider the Zoning text amendment and Planning Commission recommendation in a public
meeting; and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on July 12, 2023, at 7:00 p.m. to
discuss the Zoning text amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the Zoning text amendment, which was recommended by the Planning Commission
and documented in City File number 72023-002;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council for the approval to
amend the Herriman City Official Zoning Ordinance, Title 10, as described in Exhibit “A”.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2023-14, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 12" day of July 2023.

HERRIMAN CITY

|
ATTEST: Mager | Lorin Paimer

BIC \ icons)

oO rom, City Recorder Ry
(|
Mi

HERRIMAN

~ VERY i,
1999 xf
“fe of US er


Exhibit “A”

Within the following excerpts from Herriman City Code, only text marked by “underline” or
“strike-through” shall be amended by approval of the City Council.

10-3-3: Rules of Interpretation

A, General: All provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this chapter shall be
liberally construed to accomplish the purposes of this title.

B. Conjunctions: Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, conjunctions shall be
interpreted as follows:

1. "And" indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions or events shall
apply.

2. "Or" indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions, provisions or
events shall apply.

3. "Either... or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or events
shall apply singly but not in combination.

4, "And/or" indicates that all or one or more of the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply.

C. Mandatory and Discretionary Terms:

1. The word "shall" is always mandatory and imposes a duty to act.

2. The word "should" means the matter described ought to be accomplished if
reasonable and possible under the circumstances.

3. The word "may" is permissive and grants discretion or authority to act.

4. The words "may not" mean an action is prohibited.

D. Non-Technical and Technical Words: Non-technical words Werds-and phrases shall be
construed according to the common use and understanding of the language, but technical
words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.

1. Any word in this title that is not otherwise defined and is determined to be
ambiguous by the Community Development Director shall be defined by the 11"
Edition of the “Merriam-Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary” pursuant to section 10-
5-23 in this title.

10-3-5: Definitions, Generally

As used in this title, the words and phrases defined in this section shall have the following
meanings unless the context clearly indicates a contrary meaning.

WEEDS: Vegetation that is uncultivated. useless. unsightly. or which has become a fire
hazard or otherwise determined by the city to be noxious, dangerous. or a nuisance.
including, but not limited to, musk thistle (Carduus nutans). poison ivy (Rhus
Toxicodendron) and those plants named in the Utah noxious weed act. Utah Code Annotated
title 4, as amended.


10-9-7: Other Applicable Regulations

A. Minimum lot area and width:

Zone Lot Area

Lot Width

A-1-10 | 10,000 sq. ft. (may be reduced to 8,500
sq. ft. in a planned development)
1/2 acre for raising or grazing of up to 2
horses or 2 cows

85’, at 25’ from the lot line

A-1-21 21,780 sq. ft. (includes raising or
grazing of up to 2 horses or 2 cows)

85', at_25’ from the lot line. when
minimum required area is 21,780 sq ft

100', at 25’ from the lot line, when
minimum required area is 1 acre

200", at. 25’ from the lot line, when
minimum required area is 4 acres

A-1-43 1 acre

100’, at 25’ from the lot line

10-10-7: Other Applicable Regulations

B. Minimum lot area and width:

Zone Lot Area Lot Width
R-1-10 10,00 sq. ft. 80'", at 30 25' from front tot line
R-1-15 15,000 sq. ft. 80', at 30-25’ from front lot line
R-]-2] 21,780 sq. ft. 100', at 30-25' from front lot line
R-1-43 43,560 sq. ft. (1 acre) 100'", at 30-25’ from front lot line
R-2-10 None 65', at 49 24' from front lot line
R-2-15 65’, at the front yard setback
R-M None None
10-11-8: Other Applicable Regulations
A. Minimum lot area and width:
Zone Lot Area Lot Width
FR-1 1 acre 150’, at 38 40’ from front lot line
FR-2.5 2.5 acres 250’, at 30-40’ from front lot line
FR-5 5 acres 250’, at 50’ from front lot line
FR-10 10 acres 250’, at 50’ from front lot line
FR-20 20 acres 250’, at 50’ from front lot line
RC None None


10-21-8: Walls Along Collector and Arterial Streets

A. Applicability: Whenever a lot or parcel is proposed to be developed which abuts a
collector street, as identified in the Herriman Master Street Plan, a minimum six-foot (6’)
high wall shall be installed along the street right-of-way line adjoining the lot or parcel as
provided in this section. Whenever a lot or parcel is proposed to be developed which
abuts an arterial street, as identified in the Herriman Master Street Plan, a minimum
eight-foot (8') high wall shall be installed along the street right-of-way line adjoining the
lot or parcel as provided in this section.

1. Exception. The Community Development Director may modify or waive the wall
requirement for lots that were recognized as legal by the city upon annexation or
have been approved by the city since incorporation.

B. Materials: A wall located on the right-of-way line of an identified collector or arterial
street shall be constructed of masonry or precast concrete in a style and color consistent
with existing walls already installed along the length of the street. If no wall has been
constructed along the street, the wall shall have a style and color consistent with other
walls in the vicinity.

C. Mountain View Corridor Noise Walls: Any development abutting the Mountain View
Corridor shall include the construction of a noise wall along the corridor right-of-way
line if the Utah Department of Transportation determines such wall is necessary pursuant
to an environmental study. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)

10-21-11: Double Fencing

A. Double fences shall be prohibited except for the following:

1. When located adjacent to an existing agricultural or animal use. This exception means
that owners who wish to construct a fence may need to tie their fence into an existing
fence located on an adjacent lot or parcel unless the fence is not deemed a double
fence as defined in chapter 3 of this title.

2. Lots located directly adjacent to school district property. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)

3. When an adjacent property owner is unwilling to allow the removal and replacement
of an existing fence located on or near a common property line, the Community
Development Director may permit double fencing to mitigate reasonably anticipated
detrimental impacts from incompatible land uses as defined within this title.

10-21-12 Fence Maintenance:

Following the release of any improvement completion assurance for the construction of a
fence, the abutting property owner shall maintain the fence in good condition unless the city
specifically agrees to maintain the fence. All fences must be maintained in good condition
and free from damage, breaks, or missing parts.


10-24-4: Parking Design Guidelines:

A.

General Considerations: Parking lot design should include a useful pedestrian circulation
system, adequate turning radii, an efficient traffic movement pattern, a pleasant
appearance, convenient parking locations, efficient drainage, and integration of parking
with the character of the site and proposed development.

. Covered Spaces: The design of covered parking structures should be compatible with the

overall design and character of the project where the structures are located.

Emergency Vehicle Access: Access for emergency vehicles should be integrated into the
design of the project.

Loading And Unloading Areas: Pedestrian drop-off locations should be incorporated
within overall circulation patterns and should be convenient and safe for pedestrians.
Parking Location: Parking areas should be located as follows:

1. In office-use projects, twenty-five percent (25%) of the required parking spaces
should be provided within two hundred feet (200’) of the building served, and the
balance within four hundred feet (400’).

2. In commercial and industrial use projects, required parking spaces should be
located within one hundred fifty feet (150’) of the building served.

3. In multiple-residential projects, required parking spaces should be arranged to
provide at least one parking space per unit within one hundred feet (100’) of the
dwelling units they are intended to serve.

4. In single-family residential projects, required off-street parking shall be provided
within or on:

i. An enclosed garage or covered carport that is attached to or detached from
the dwelling,
ii. An uncovered parking space located within a side or rear yard of a
dwelling that complies with the standards of this chapter.
iii. An approved driveway from a public or private right of way that leads
directly to an approved garage, carport, or approved parking space.

10-24-7: Parking Location

F.

Recreational Vehicle Parking in Agricultural and Residential Zones: In agricultural and
residential zones, no boat or recreational vehicle shall be parked in a front yard for longer
than seven (7) consecutive days. Storage of a recreational vehicle shall be within a side or
rear yard of a dwelling on an approved parking surface. No portion of a recreational
vehicle, including a trailer, may encroach into a public or private right-of-way.

10-24-10: Parking Let-Design and Construction

J. Paving: Unless expressly provided otherwise in this title, every parking space and lot
required by this title shall be:

I.

2.
3.

Paved with asphalt, concrete, or some other all-weather surfacing material in accordance
with City specifications;

Maintained to eliminate dust or mud; and

Graded and drained to dispose of all surface water. Such surface water drainage shall not
cross a public sidewalk.

10-24-12: Parking Schedule
CHART 10-24
OFF-STREET PARKING SCHEDULE

Uses Minimum Standard Additional Standard
Restaurant, general 3 2 spaces per 100 square feet of floor
area accessible to the public

10-27-7 Signs Allowed

Signs allowed; by zones; shall be as shown in chart 10-27 of this section.

Illumination may be built into or attached to signs listed above when:

1. Lighting is allowed in the specific zone;

2. Development occupies more than 500 feet of continuous frontage on the street the sign
will face, and the sign is more than 200 feet from a lot where an illuminated sign is not
permitted.

3. Flat signs facing that face a dwelling or dwellings on adjacent properties property may
not eannet be illuminated. (preperties-Property divided by a public streets or right-of-way
are is not adjacent}.

C-1 Zone
Flat} 15% | None] Building | [Illumination may be built into or attached to signs; unless
of wall wall exposed to a dwelling on adjacent property or a residential zone
area boundary, in which case it may be allowed with conditional use

approval. Property separated by a public street or right-of-way is
not adjacent.

C-2 Zone

Flat |20% |None| Building | Illumination may be built into or attached to signs; unless
or of wall wall exposed to a dwelling on adjacent property or a residential zone
wall | area boundary, in which case it may be allowed with conditional use

approval. Property separated by public street or right-of-way is

not adjacent.

MU-2 Zone

Flat }20% | None| Building | llumination may be built into or attached to signs; unless
or of wall wall exposed to a dwelling on adjacent property or a residential
wall | area zone boundary, in which case it may be allowed with

conditional use approval. Property separated by a public
street or right-of-way is not adjacent.


10-29-51: Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit Regulation

I.

Business License Required. To ensure city code compliance, promote regular property
maintenance, and report on moderate-income housing as required by Utah State Code. the
property owner must obtain an annual business license from the city before renting an

internal ADU.

10-31 Auto Mall Special District
10-31-9: Development Standards for Non-Franchise Dealerships

O. Display Pedestals:

1.

The number of display pedestals allowed in the front setback shall be one pedestal per
one hundred feet (100') of street frontage or part thereof. The total number of pedestals
allowed on the site may be clustered together to achieve more effective display, sales
area, or circulation.

Display pedestals shall be no closer than two feet (2') from a property line.

Display pedestals shall meet all clear view requirements of this Code and the Herriman
City Engineering Standards.

10-31-10: Landscape and Other Standards

A. Variety: Landscaping shall consist of a variety of trees, shrubs, flowers, and other planted

material, and shall be primarily comprised of water-wise landscaping applications of
ground covers, rock, and mulch.

Water Efficiency: All new landscaping and revisions to existing landscape shall
incorporate water-efficient landscape materials.

Minimum Required Along Public Rights-of-Way-Minimum: A minimum of fifteen feet
(15') width of landscaping will be required along and adjacent to all public rights-of-way.
Except, for every one hundred feed feet (100')- of frontage, a car display area of no more
than twenty feet (20') long may narrow the landscaping width down to eight two feet
(82'). A minimum of five feet (5') width of landscaping will be required for all as rear and
side yard landscaped areas.


