ORDINANCE NO. 2023-09

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HERRIMAN, UTAH,
AMENDING HERRIMAN CITY CODE §7-8-1 (DEFINITIONS), 7-8-7 (GENERAL
PARK FACILITY RULES AND REGULATIONS), 7-8-11 (HERRIMAN OPEN SPACE,
PRIMITIVE TRAILS, AND URBAN TRAIL FACILITY GENERAL RULES AND
REGULATIONS), 7-8-13 (PUMP TRACK RULES AND REGULATIONS).

WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the Herriman City (the “City’’) authority to enact
ordinances that the Herriman City Council (the “City Council”) considers necessary or appropriate;
and

WHEREAS, the subject text amendment updates and changes various rules and regulations
for parks, trails, open space, and pump tracks; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public meeting and reviewed the subject text
amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the subject text amendment will enhance the public
health, safety, and welfare.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
HERRIMAN, UTAH:

SECTION 1. Text Amendment. The Council hereby amends City Code §§ 7-8-1, 7-8-7,
7-8-11, and 7-8-13 as shown in Exhibit A.

SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HERRIMAN,
UTAH, ON THIS 10° DAY OF MAY, 2023.

HERRIMAN CITY COUNCIL

Attest:

: 4
Borin Palmer

Mayor: LaF
.

HERMAN BPG
19 SS LD ff ye
Nn Oy fhe

Sain gyn

Page | of I

(Additions in Underline, deletions in Strikethrough)

CHAPTER 7-8 PARKS, PARK FACILITIES, TRAILS AND OPEN SPACE

7-8-1: Definitions

BICYCLE: Has the same meaning as Uah Code § 41-GA-102(5),

CLASS 1 ELECTRICT ASSISTED BICYCLE: Has the same meaning as Uah Code § 41-6A-
102(8).

CLASS 2 ELECTRICT ASSISTED BICYCLE: Has the same meaning as Uah Code § 41-6A-
102(9),

CLASS 3 ELECTRICT ASSISTED BICYCLE: Has the same meaning as Uah Code { 41-GA-
102(10).

ELECTRIC ASSISTED BICYCLE: Has the same meaning as Utah Code § 41-6A-102(17).

ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE: Has the same meaning as Utah
Code § 41-6A-102(18).

GOLF CART: Has the same meaning as Utah Code § 41-6A-102(23).

MOBILITY DISABILITY: Has the same meaning as Utah Code § 41-6A-102(39).

MODIFICATIONS: Modifications means any modification of existing lands, vegetation or
structures from its existing condition including any form of digging, landscaping, construction,
or placement of structures.

MOPED: Has the same meaning as Utah Code § 41-6A-102(40).

MOTOR ASSISTED SCOOTER: Has the same meaning as Utah Code § 41-6A-102(41),

MOTOR VEHICLE: Has the same meaning as Utah Code § 41-GA-102(42),

MOTORCYCLE: Has the same meaning as Utah Code § 41-6A-102(43).

OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Has the same meaning as Utah Code § 41-22-2.

OPEN SPACE: Open space is any open piece of land that is undeveloped (has no buildings
or other build structures) and is accessible to the public. Open space can include: natural areas,
wildlife and native plant habitats, wetland or watershed areas, stream corridors, and passive,
low impact activities.

PARK FACILITIES OR FACILITIES: A specific piece of ground, either within the City or
that is under the ownership or control of the City that is operated and maintained by the City
and set apart for the general public, whether developed or undeveloped, including natural
parks and open space, and that may be planted with trees, lawns and other shrubbery. A park
may include within its boundary facilities for sport, entertainment, dancing, recreation,
swimming, or similar functions.

PEDESTRIAN VEHICLE: Has the same meaning as Utah Code § 41-6a-1011(1)(a).

SMOKING: Smoking means the possession of any lighted or heated tobacco product in any
form, inhaling, exhaling, burning, or heating a substance containing tobacco or nicotine
intended for inhalation through a cigar, cigarette, pipe, hookah or similar device, using an e-
cigarette, or using an oral smoking device intended to circumvent the prohibition of smoking
in this chapter.

SPECIAL EVENT: Any athletic event, entertainment event or political event, whether held
for profit, nonprofit or charitable purposes.

TRAIL: A linear corridor of property which is part of the parks, trails and recreation master
plan or which connects planned trails and is maintained by the City for the purposes of hiking,
walking, jogging, running, equestrian, cycling, OHV, or other such use allowed by this chapter.

7-8-7: General Park Facility Rules And Regulations

A. Unless specifically authorized elsewhere, or a person or entity obtains a special event
permit from the City, the following are prohibited and _ must be observed at all park
facilities:

the-park-istocked_or-official signage indieates-Remaining or loitering at a park
facility when athe park facility is closed.__Unless indicated otherwise (e.v., gates

locked, fencing, signage), all park facilities are closed between 10:00 pm and 7:00
am.

E22. Use of Heurs-fer-park facilitics' restrooms after hours at each park,

which facilities-are-posted-at-each-taeilit-and-vary by park facility and season.

D3. Smoking atis-not-permittedin-anyparkfaeilities, or within fifty feet (50),
of a park facility.

+4. The sale, possession or consumption of any alcoholic beverages—is
prohibited without appropriate permits and licenses from Herriman City and
the Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.

E55. Modifications ef theto any park facility_or structure. Any changes (such
as_ moving tables or trash cans) shall be returned to substantially the same
condition and location in which they were found.-are-prehibited-witheut-the

G6. ttis-unlawtelte-aAdjust or tamper with sprinklers, sprinkling valves, or
sprinkling irrigation systems.

He7. A -+trash—mitst-be—placed-in-the_properreeeptactesandtablesete;
rettirnec-to—substantially the -same_eondition-ancdtoeation in-whiehtheywere

fotadLittering, including animal waste.

£8. Uratitherized-Use of motor vehicles shall netbe-permittecd-beyond designated

toad-ways, designated trails, or atmdis-designated parking areas-atapatktacility
ettratl.

$2. Aes-lawetalte-bein-pPossession of illegal or unlawful weapons, contraband,
illegal drugs, or other illicit items-it-atry-parktacitity.

hl), _+t-istrplawfel-to—gGamblinge, fighting, quarreling, or use profane
language ts-anypark faeilities.

4.11. Amplified music or sound-:

ME12. Except for display operators properly licensed as required by Utah law,

its-untawful_ferany-person_to-display, discharge, ignite, explode, project or

otherwise fire of permit the ignition, expulsion projection of any fiteworks-in
N13. __ Except within four feet (4’) of an approved fireplace or grill, tis unlawful
to-allow an open flame-within-any-parktaeility traiLoropen-spaee.

©-14, Off-leashed_ dogs, except for designated _off-leash areas. Leashes may
not extend over chal feet Su in length, iiss ea sot! teria a
‘ stbee acti cilie ii clan

15. Graffiti and vandalism.

P16. Inflatables, mechanical rides, water slide and any other private attraction

ibitect si ve
17. Archery, golf and paintball-ate-prohibited-vithoutapermit.

18. Parking or camping after a park facility is closed.

19. Posting or sharing of signs, banners, flyers or other information.

20. Private instruction or group classes or lessons.

9.21. Failing to abide by any City signage with additional regulations.

B. The City reserves the right to revoke a reservation or close a park facility in the event
of an emergency or matter of public safety.

C. Exclusive use of a park or park facility is prohibited without a permit.

LED. This_section does not apply to City employees, vehicles, apparatuses,
equipment, etc.

A. Unless specifically authorized elsewhere, or a person or entity obtain $a special event

permit from the City, the following are prohibited and must be observed in all open
space areas, including trails:

1. All restrictions found in HCC 7-8-7 that do not conflict with this Section.

2. Remaining or loitering when a trail or Open space is closed. Unless indicated
otherwise (e.g., gates locked, fencing, signage), all trails and open spaces are
closed between 10:00 pm and 5:30 am.

4 zt > = $ aw t : *.
mirst-be-packed-out-Operate a motor vehicle, off-highway vehicle, motorcycle,

moped, motor assisted. scooter, golf cart, or clectric assisted bicycle on any trails

with the following exceptions:


a. Operation of a bicycle or class 1 electric assisted bicycle, unless posted
otherwise.

b. City, state, of federal vehicles, apparatuses, clectric_ assisted bicycles,
motorcycles, ete.

Be

4. It is unlawful to enter or remain upon a trail teails-that is closed.

7-8-13: Midas-Greek-Pump Track Rules And Regulations

A. Definitions: As used in this section:

PUMP TRACK: Fhe-Midas-GreekPump—HrackA ride-at-your-own-tisk, unsupervised

park facility designed for skateboards, skates, scooters, and bicycles. Motorized
vehicles, off-highway vehicle, motorcycle, moped, motor assisted scooter, golf cart, or
electric assisted bicycle (except class | cletric assisted bicycles) are not permitted ona

pump track.;
RIDERS: Any user of the-a_ pump track.

SCOOTER: Any two (2) wheeled vehicle on which the driver-operator sits or stands
and is propelled through human power by pushing one foot against the ground.

SKATEBOARD: A flat, narrow board with Apy-four (4) wheelsed, -vehiele-on-which

a person stands on and moves forward by pushing one foot on the groundear—be

SKATES: Boots or other fitted shoes that are attached to a rider and have one ot more
fixed wheels.


cB. FheA Midas-CreekPpump Ftrack may be closed at any time by Hertiman-the

City.

DC, In addition to the general park rules and regulations of this chapter, as well as
all other applicable laws and ordinances, the following rules and regulations apply to
the pump track:

1, All riders must wear a helmet. Other protective gear is strongly recommended.
2.—Grattitrand-vandalism-of the pump-trackare-prohibited and-maytead-to-elosure;
3:—AlHrash-is-to-be-placec_in-the-provided-teceptacles:

+-2.All animals are prohibited from-at the-pump tracks-faeility-atal-times.

5 Desanme—awe—seolilbiead! Comin wt i
ECT SOT SATO PEO OTC FEOF tetthe
Q

e'eloek-(9:00} AME Mountain Standard Fi me-or-Mountain-DaylightFimeas

6:3.Portable ramps, rails, platforms, or any other structures ot modifications to the
a pump track are not to be ereetedbuilt at any time.

Ce a ee es ae ee Pee NN) ae pen
pS Ss Ss A 8

+4. Fhe Midas-Creek- Pump Ftracks-is_are closed for use when snow and ice are

present.

t—Fhese- retes-shall-be-pested-in-one-ormoreconspicioustoeations-in-and around the

ED. The City's law enforcement officers are hereby authorized and empowered to
enforce the provisions of this chapter and to issue criminal citations to any riders found
to be in violation of this section.

GE. A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction and subject to a fifty
dollar ($50.00) penalty for the first offense, and a one hundred dollar ($100.00) penalty
for each subsequent offense. Multiple offenses may result in the offending individual
being trespassed from ¢he-a pump track.

