ORDINANCE NO. 2023-04

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HERRIMAN, UTAH,
AMENDING HERRIMAN CITY CODE 1-10-14 RELATING TO THE DISPOSAL OF
SURPLUS PROPERTY

WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the Herriman City (the “City’’) authority to enact
otdinances that the Herriman City Council (the “City Council”) considers necessary or appropriate;
and

WHEREAS, the subject text amendment modifies and updates the City’s disposal of surplus
property; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public heating and reviewed the subject text
amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the subject text amendment will enhance public
health, safety, and welfare.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
HERRIMAN, UTAH:

SECTION 1. Text Amendment. The Council amends City Code § 1-10-14 as shown in
Exhibit A.

SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance, and all sections, parts, provisions, and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HERRIMAN,
UTAH, ON THIS 8" DAY OF FEBRUARY, 2023.

HERRIMAN CITY COUNCIL

lbs

fin Paltfer

e CW lect LAY

Attest: J
bsfrom, City Recorder

Mayor:

HERRIMAN ff |

Page 1 of 1

J-10-14: Disposal Of Surplus Property

A. No City owned property, except property that is consumed in normal operations, shall be disposed

B.

of or released to ownership by anyone other than the City Council, except as provided in this
section.

Whenever property is surplus, unused, obsolete, unsuitable, or otherwise no longer needed and the
estimated reasonable value of the property is ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less. the City
Manager, or Designee may declare the property surplus and shall either establish a minimum bid
for the sale of such property or declare that the property is of nominal value. If the City Manager,
or Designee has declared the property to be surplus and established a minimum bid, then such
property may only be sold for an amount equal to or more than the minimum bid based on the
highest and best economic return to the city. If the city manager, or Designee has declared the
property to be surplus and declared that the property is of nominal value, then such property may
be disposed of as determined by the city manager, or Designee.

Whenever city property is surplus, unused, obsolete, unsuitable or otherwise no longer needed and
the estimated reasonable value is more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), the director or
department manager having control of such Property shall promptly so notify the city manager, or
Designee. The city manager, or Designee then shall notify other city departments of the availability
of such property. The cily manager, or Designee shall supervise the transfer of such property to the
department requesting the property. If no use can be made or can be expected to be made within
the reasonably foreseeable future. the property shall be disposed of in accordance with subsections
D, E, F, and G of this section. (Ord, 2015-25A, 8-12-2015)

The city manager, or Designee shall prepare and present a listing to the city council of all city-
owned real property which the City Manager feels is no longer needed by the city and which can
be declared surplus. The city council may declare the property surplus and authorize the City
Manager to establish a base bid for the property in accordance with this section. Valuation for real
property shall be through one of the following methods: 1) Appraisal by qualified appraiser, 2)
Opinion of value from competent real estate professional, or 3) if adjacent or nearby property has
been sold or listed, the city at its discretion may use that to set the minimum bid for surplus property,
The City Manager shall prepare and present a listing to the City Council of all cily-owned personal
property that is no longer needed by the City along with estimated values, The Council may declare
the property surplus and authorize the City Manager to establish minimum bids for said property,
If the city council has declared the items to be surplus, then the city manager, or Designee shall
proceed to sell such surplus property for an amount equal to or more than the minimum bid based
on the highest and best economic return to the city, except that consideration for surplus property
conveyed may be based on other public policy factors if the city council makes a determination,
pursuant to its legislative authority, that the consideration is adequate.

Unless the city council has determined that consideration for the surplus property shall be based on
other public policy factors, the highest and best economic return to the city, as referred to herein,
shall be determined by one or more of the following methods: 1) competitive bid/auction: 2)
evaluation by a qualified and disinterested appraiser(s): 3) other professional publication and
valuation service: 4) an informal market survey ;5) in the case of items of personal property
possessing readily discernible market value; or 6) some other method as directed by the City
Council.

Monetary proceeds from the sale or other disposition of such property pursuant to this section shall
be credited to the appropriate find.

1-10-14: Disposal Of Surplus Property

A. No City owned property, except property that is consumed in normal operations, shall be disposed
of or released to ownership by anyone other than the City_Council, except as provided in this
section.

B. Whenever property is surplus, unused, obsolete, unsuitable, or otherwise no longer needed and the
estimated reasonable value of the property is ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less, the City
Manager, or Assistant-CityManagerDesignee may declare the property surplus and shall cither
establish a minimum bid for the sale of such propet ty or declare that the property is of nominal
value. If the City Manager, or Assist agerDesignee has declared the property to be
surplus and established a minimum bid, then such property may only be sold for an amount equal
to or more than the minimum bid based on the highest and best economic return to the city. If the
city manager, or assistant-eitymanagerDesignee has declared the property to be surplus and
declared that the property is of nominal value, then such property may be disposed of as determined
by the city manager, or assistanteity4nanagerDesignee.

C. Whenever city property is surplus, unused, obsolete, unsuitable or otherwise no longer needed and
the estimated reasonable value is more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), the director or
department manager having control of such property shall promptly so notify the city manager, or
assistant-eitysmanagerDesignee. The city manager, or assistanteity4managerDesignee then shall
notify other city departments of the availability of such property. The city manager, or assistant
eitymanagerDesignee shall supervise the transfer of such property to the department requesting
the property. If no use can be made or can be expected to be made within the reasonably foreseeable
future, the property shall be disposed of in accordance with subsections D, E, F, and G of this
section, (Ord. 2015-25A, 8-12-2015)

D. The city manager, or assistant-eitymanagerDesignee shall prepare and present a listing to the city
council of all city-owned real property which he-the City Manager fecls is no longer needed by the
city and which can be declared surplus, The city council may declare the property surplus and skal
establish a-minintin-bid-for the sale-oFsuch-prepertyauthori ize the City Manager to establish a base
bid for the property in accordance with this section. Valuation for real property shall be through
one of the following methods: 1) Appraisal by qualified appraiser, 2) Opinion of value from
competent real estate professional, or 3) if adjacent or nearby property has been sold or listed, the
city at its discretion may use that to set the minimum bid for surplus property.

DE. >The City Manager shall prepare and present a listing to the City Council of all city-owned
personal property that is no longer needed by the City along with estimated values. The Council
may declare the property surplus and authorize the City Manager to establish minimum bids for
said property. Ifthe city council has declared the items to be surplus-and-established-atnininnm
bid, then the city manager, or assistant-eity4managerDesignee shall proceed to sell such surplus
property for an amount equal to or more than the minimum bid based on the highest and best
economic return to the city, except that consideration for surplus property conveyed may be based
on other public policy factors if the city council makes a determination, pursuant to its legislative
authority, that the consideration is adequate.

EF. Unless the city council has determined that consideration for the surplus property shall be
based on other public policy factors, the highest and best economic return to the city, as referred to
herein, shall be determined by one or more of the following methods: 1) competitive bid/auction;
2) evaluation by a qualified and disinterested appraiser(s); 3) other professional publication and
valuation service; of 4) an informal market survey by-the-designee-:5) in the casc of items of
personal property possessing readily discernible market value; or 6) some other method as directed
by the City Council.


G. Monetary proceeds from the sale or other disposition of such property pursuant to this section shall
be credited to the appropriate fund.


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2023-04
SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE AMENDING HERRIMAN CITY CODE 1-10-14 RELATING
TO THE DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PROPERTY

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
Lorin Palmer x
Jared Henderson x x
Teddy Hodges xX xX
Sherrie Ohrn Absent
Steven Shields xX

TOTALS ee 4

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 8" day of
February 2023, on a roll call vote as described above.

