HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2023-18

AMENDING TITLE 7 OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE ADDING ADDITIONAL LANGUAGE
FOR ENCROACHMENTS ON CITY PROPERTY, ADDING VIOLATIONS AND
ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.

WHEREAS, Utah Code, 10-9a-102 grants the Herriman City (the “City”) authority to enact
ordinances that the Herriman City Council (the “City Council’) considers necessary or appropriate; and

WHEREAS, the subject text ammendment updates and changes various rules and regulations for
encroachments and enforcement; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public meeting and reviewed the subject text emendment;
and

WHEREAS the City Council finds that the subject text amendment will enhance public health,
safety, and welfare; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
HERRIMAN, UTAH:

Section 1, Text Amendment. The Council hereby amends City Code 7-5-1, adding 7-2-2, and 7-
2-3, as shown in Exhibit A.

Section 2. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or unenforceable,
such invalidity or unenforceablity shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance and all sections,
parts, provisions, and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

Section 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon publication
or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HERRIMAN, UTAH, ON
THIS 11 DAY OF OCTOBER, 2023.

HERRIMAN CITY COUNCIL

orate
< Ss.
9° IOP, &
Or %M%, -) \) oe

Attest:

HERRIMAN

cry


7-5-1: Encroachments Prohibited

qj ~ Ap

A. It shall be unlawful for any person other than the city to use, place, erect. construct or maintain any

sign, advertisement, pipeline, power line, messenger carrier, conduit, or convey across, over, under, or
above any public way in the city or city owned property. It shall also be unlawful to place, erect, or
maintain any structure, including curbs, gutters, sidewalks, stairs. driveways, paving, alley gutters,
waterways, park strips. or to use the public way or city owned property to place temporary appurtenances
or to make any excavation in any public way or city owned property.

B. Encroachments may include but are not limited to the following:

1) Excavating or placing embankments or stockpiling any material;

2) Placing or leaving rubbish, brush, earth, or other material of any nature;

3) Constructing, placing. or maintaining any pathway, sidewalk, curb, gutter, driveway, surfacing,
culvert, drainage facility, pipe, conduit, or cable;

4) Erecting or maintaining any post, pole, fence, guardrail, wall loading platform, retaining walls,
cement paving, or any other structure:

5) Planting or removing any tree, shrub, grass or growing thing:

6) Construction activity on adjacent right of way or private property which impacts the public’s use
of right of way or private property.

7) Private structures, including but not limited to, trampolines, gazebos, swimming pools, sport

courts, and garages.


7-2-1: Authority; Maintenance

All highways, roads, paths and ways within the city not designated as federal, state or county
roads, paths or ways shall be under the direction and authority of the city. Such roads shall be
constructed, regulated and maintained by or under the authority of the city. All private highways,
roads, paths and ways shall be regulated by the city; however, the maintenance shall be the
responsibility of the organization or persons who own the road. (Ord. 99-05 § 14.08.010, 5-26-
1999, eff. 6-1-1999; and. 2010 Code)

7-2-2: Violations of Encroachments

Failure to comply with any provision of this title, or any order of suspension, revocation, or stop
work shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. Each day the violation exists shall be a separate
offense. No criminal conviction shall excuse the person from otherwise complying.

7-2-3: Enforcement of Encroachments

Enforcement proceedings, unless otherwise provided, this chapter may be enforced through
administrative procedures, or by filing civil or criminal actions as provided by law. The city has
sole discretion to decide whether to file a civil or criminal case for a violation. The city may file
both or one or the other. The possibility of an administrative remedy shall in no way interfere
with the city’s right to prosecute violations of this chapter as criminal offenses, or to seek any
civil remedy to enjoin, prevent, or abate the violation. If the city chooses to file both civil and
criminal charges for the same violation on the same day, no civil fines shall be assessed, but all
other remedies shall be available.


