ORDINANCE NO. 2023-13

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HERRIMAN, UTAH,
AMENDING HERRIMAN CITY CODE f 6-1-2 (DEFINITIONS), 6-5-1 (PARKING
PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIC AREAS), 6-5-5 (PARKING PROHIBITED WHEN), AND 7-
6-6 (SNOW REMOVAL).

WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the Herriman City (the “City”) authority to enact
ordinances that the Herriman City Council (the “City Council”) considers necessary or appropriate;
and

WHEREAS, the subject text amendment updates and changes various rules and regulations
for parking and snow removal; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public meeting and reviewed the subject text
amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the subject text amendment will enhance public
health, safety, and welfare.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
HERRIMAN, UTAH:

SECTION 1. Text Amendment. The Council hereby amends City Code §§ 6-1-2, 6-5-1,
6-5-5, and 7-6-6 as shown in Exhibit A.

SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HERRIMAN,

UTAH, ON THIS 12" DAY OF July, 2023.
Mayor: Fi Loa

Zorin Palmer

HERRIMAN CITY COUNCIL

HERRIMAN
cr

oa

-

OLB MING SE

as

Page 1 of L

6-1-2: Definitions

The statutory provisions found in Utah Code title 41 (Motor Vehicle Act); title 53, chapter 3
(Uniform Driver's License Act); and title 72 (Transportation Code) are adopted by this
reference as if fully set forth in the Herriman City Traffic Code provided, however, that those
statutory provisions which are exclusive to the State of Utah or which are not enforceable
by Herriman City under the laws of the State of Utah. For this section, the following terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them unless the context indicates otherwise:

CURB: The raised edge or boundary of a road that separates the road from the sidewalk or
shoulder.

DESIGNATED AREA: Specific locations within the City where parking time limits are
established and enforced.

DISABLED PARKING STALL: A designated parking space marked with the International
Symbol of Access (ISA), indicating its exclusive use for vehicles transporting individuals
with disabilities.

LOADING ZONE: A designated area or curb space marked for the exclusive use of loading
and unloading activities.

PARKING TIME LIMIT: The maximum duration of time permitted for parking in a
designated area as determined by signage, parking regulations, or municipal codes.

PUBLIC STREET: Any road or thoroughfare owned and maintained by the City and
accessible to the general public.

SIGNIFICANT SNOW EVENT: An accumulation of snow during a snow event that exceeds
twelve (12) inches.

SNOW EVENT: Any period during which the accumulation of snow impacts the normal
operation and safety of the City’s transportation infrastructure and public spaces. Any
snow accumulation over one (1) inch shall be considered a snow event.

TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: Any object or sign placed or erected by the City on or adjacent
to a roadway to regulate, warn, or guide the movement or parking of vehicles, pedestrians,
or other road users. Traffic control devices include signs, signals, markings, and other
physical elements that convey specific messages and instructions to road users.

6-5-1: Parking Prohibited In Specified Areas

It shall be a violation of this title for any person to stop, stand, or park a vehicle, or to permit
another person to do the same, in any of the following:

A. In front of or within five feet (5’) of a private driveway or alley.

B. In front of or within ten feet (10’) of a mailbox between the hours of eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M., on days that mail is delivered.

C. Within twenty feet (20’) of a crosswalk.

D. Within thirty feet (30’) of an intersection.

In front of or within fifteen feet (15’) of a fire hydrant.

On or across a sidewalk.

Within thirty feet (30’) from the approach to any traffic control device.

Within fifty feet (50) of the nearest rails of any railroad crossing.

Within twenty feet (20’) of the entrance to a fire station, or on the street opposite of

the entrance to a fire station.

J. At any place where traffic control devices, including temporary devices, prohibit
parking.

K. In any location or manner that the vehicle is parked opposite of the flow of traffic on
the street.

L. Ata disabled parking stall without proper authorization or displayed permit issued
by the appropriate authority.

M. Ina public parking lot that obstructs traffic or parks overnight.

N. In a loading zone, unless actively engaged in the loading or unloading goods or
passengers.

O. More than twelve (12) inches from the curb. If there is no curb, a vehicle must be
parked as close as practicable and parallel to the edge of the shoulder.

P. Leave a vehicle on a public street or within a public right-of-way that does not have

current insurance or registration.

mom @ ot tn

6-5-5: Parking Prohibited When

A. In addition to HCC § 6-5-1, it is unlawful for any person who owns or has possession,
custody or control of any vehicle or trailer to park, or knowingly allow any vehicle
or trailer to park, on any street or city right-of-way:

1. Ina manner that obstructs snow removal by failing to leave adequate room
for the passage of snowplows, emergency vehicles, utility vehicles,
maintenance vehicles or other removal equipment.

2. Obstructs traffic, including when a vehicle has become snowbound due to

snow plows plowing around the vehicle.

Longer than twenty-four (24) consecutive hours.

4. Ina designated area for a period exceeding the established parking time limit,
as indicated by signage, markings, parking meters, or other regulations that
give notice of such parking time limit.

B. A person must park in accordance with the following during a storm event or 24
hours after a snow event:

1. Comply with any parking regulations in this chapter and any traffic control
devices.

2. Parking is permitted only on the side of the street where addresses have even
numbers.

1. Roads that are divided by a landscaped meridian with one-way travel
in each direction are exempt from the odd-even parking system.

w

7-6-6: Snow Removal

A. Required: It is unlawful for the owner, occupant, lessor or agent of property abutting
on a paved sidewalk to fail to remove or cause to be removed from such paved
sidewalk and any existing curb ramp all hail, snow or sleet falling thereon within
twenty-four (24) hours after the hail, snow or sleet has ceased falling. In the event
of a significant snow event, a person must remove such snow within thirty-six (36)
hours after a significant snow event.

B. Clogging Gutter Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person removing snow from a
sidewalk or curb ramp to deposit snow, dirt or other material in a gutter so as to clog
the same, or prevent the free flow of water therein.

6-1-2: DefinitionsStatutes-Adopted By Reference
The feheowing-statutory provisions found in Utah Code title 41 (Motor Vehicle Act); title 53,

chapter 3 (Uniform Driver's License Act); and title 72 (Transportation Code) are adopted by

this reference as if fully set forth in the Herriman City Traffic Code provided, however, that
those statutory provisions which are exclusive to the State of Utah or which are not
enforceable by Herriman City under the laws of the State of Utah;are-exeluded:._ For this

section, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them unless the context
indicates otherwise:

CURB: ised edge or boundary of a road that separa from the sidewalk or
shoulder.

IGNATED AREA: Specific locati
established and enforced.

DISABLED PARKING STALL: A designated parking space marked with the International

S fe) ISA), indicating its exclusiv: e icles transporting individuals
with disabilities.

the City where parking time limits are

OADING ZONE: A designated ar cu e marked for the exclusive use of loadi
and unloadin iviti
RKING I : The maximum duration of tim mitted for parking in a
i a as determined by signa i lations, or municipal codes.

PUBLIC STREET: Any road or thoroughfare owned and maintained by the City and
accessible to th r

IGNIFICANT SNOW EVENT: An accumulation of snow during a snow event that exceed
twelve (12) inches.

SNOW EVENT: riod during which the ac ulation o ow im ormal
ration and safety of the City’s transportation infrastructure and public spaces. An

snow accumulation over one (1) inch shall be considered a snow event.
TRA ONTROL DEVI ny object or si laced or er

to a roadway to regulate, warn, or guide the movement or parking of Sehiicn S eerie

or other road users. Traffic control devices include signs, signals, markings, and other
nts that conv ecific messages and inst i ad users.

A.Utah Code title 41, the Motor Vehicles Act, as amended;
a. «idee ae

6-5-1: Parking Prohibited In Specified Areas
It shall be a violation of this title for any person to stop, stand, or park a vehicle, or to permit
another person to do the same, in any of the following:

In front of or within five feet (5'5’) of a private driveway or alley.:

In front of or within ten feet (16'10') of a mailbox between the hours of eight o'eleck

o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five e’eleel-o’clock (5:00) P.M., on days that mail is delivered;

Within twenty feet (20'20’) of a crosswalk.:

Within thirty feet (36°30') of an intersection.:

In front of or within fifteen feet (15'15’) of a fire hydrant.

On or across a sidewalk.

Within thirty feet (36'30') from the approach to any traffic control device.:

Within fifty feet (50°50’) of the nearest rails of any railroad crossing,;

Within twenty feet (20'20’) of the entrance to a fire station, or on the street opposite

of the entrance to a fire station.:

J. At any place where traffic -control devices, including temporary devices, prohibit
parking.:

K. In any location or im-any-manner that the vehicle is parked opposite of the flow of

traffic on the street=or,

L._At-any-place-marked-with-a-+ed-eurb:At a disabled parking stall without proper
authorization or displayed permit issued by the appropriate authority.

M. Ina li rking lot that tructs traffic or parks overnight.

N. In a loading zone, unless actively engaged in the loading or unloading goods or

assenger:

O. More than twelve (12) inches from the curb. If there is no curb, a vehicle must be

parked as close as practicable and parallel to the edge of the shoulder.

LP. Leave a vehicle on a public street or within a public right-of-way that does
not have current insurance or registration.

6-5-5: Parking Prohibited When

DP

~rommMoo

a-sneiles 4 alb-o6- EnloveRGTP sihsiie 1 Be-pancdrene ella ax enuller- -on Seach tae
highway:
A. In addition -5-1, it is unlawful for any person who owns or has possession

custody or control of any vehicle or trailer to park, or knowingly allow any vehicle
or trailer to park, on any street or city right-of-way:
"December, January; February, Mareh,and-April-orln a manner that obstructs
snow removal by failing to leave adequate room for the passage of
snowplows, emergency vehicles, utility vehicles, maintenance vehicles or
other removal equipment.
A:2. Obstructs traffic, including when a vehicle has become snowbound

due to snow plows plowing around the vehicle.
B.3. For-a-periodtLonger than twenty-four (24) consecutive hours.:or

4. In a designated area for a Ferany-period exceeding the established parking
time limit, as longer than-that-allowed-by-appropriate-indicated by signsage,

markings, eFparking meters, or other regulations that givinge notice of such
parking time limitation.


B. A person must park in accordance with the following during a storm event or 24
hours after a snow event:

1. Comply with any parking regulations in this chapter and any traffic control

devices.
2. Parking is permitted only on the side of the street where addresses have even
numbers.
&€.1.Roads that are divi landscaped meridian with one-way trav

in each direction are exempt from the odd-even parking system.
7-6-6: Snow Removal

A. Required: It is unlawful for the owner, occupant, lessor or agent of property abutting
on a paved sidewalk to fail to remove or cause to be removed from such paved
sidewalk and any existing curb ramp all hail, snow or sleet falling thereon within
ene-twenty-four (24) hours after the Ss snow or sleet has ceased falling. In the

ent of a significant snow event n must remove such snow within thir

six (36) hours after a si ae eee snow. event s-providedthat-in-ease of a storm

B. Clogging Gutter Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person removing snow from a
sidewalk or curb ramp to deposit snow, dirt or other material in a gutter so as to clog
the same, or prevent the free flow of water therein.

