ORDINANCE NO. 2024-05

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HERRIMAN, UTAH,
TO AMEND CHAPTERS 3-5, 7-3, 7-4, AND 7-13, AND ENACT CHAPTER 7-15
RELATED TO TELECOMMUNICATIONS, BROADBAND, AND CABLE SERVICE
PROVIDERS AND USE OF CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY.

WHEREAS, the Herriman City Council met in regular session to consider, among
other things, adopting an ordinance regarding telecommunications, broadband, and
cable service providers and the use of City right-of-way.

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the issues presented, the Council has
determined that it is in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of the residents
of Herriman to adopt the ordinance, as shown in Exhibit A.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
HERRIMAN, UTAH:

SECTION 1. Text Amendment. The City Council hereby adopts the text
amendments shown in Exhibit A.

SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is
held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any
other portion of this Ordinance, and all sections, parts, provisions, and words of this
Ordinance shall be severable.

SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HERRIMAN,
UTAH, ON THIS 13™ DAY OF MARCH 2024.

1Sfin Palmer if

Attest:

7Al,

(

ae a HERRIMAN 7

TAY <ore “pha
OBS OUNID

Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2024-05
SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTERS 3-5, 7-3, 7-4, AND 7-13, AND
ENACT CHAPTER 7-15 RELATED TO TELECOMMUNICATIONS, BROADBAND, AND
CABLE SERVICE PROVIDERS AND USE OF CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
Lorin Palmer x
Jared Henderson xX
Teddy Hodges x
Sherrie Ohrn x x
Steven Shields xX Xx

TOTALS 5

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 13" day of
March 2024, on a roll call vote as described above.

Table of Contents

TITLE 3 BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATION G........cscssessssssssssesecsesesrserecerscarscsncneseeeavens
CHAPTER 3-5 TAXEG ......... .ssuasssasyavapapacasatpaas aasshanasieenpmasertarnenennannnesenssesennpneenonmronsnenrenenenss

3-5D-1: Telecommunications License Tax Act Adopted .....cceessssssssessseseeseensees
3-5D-2: Definitions..............casivacsusunevetestiesssecsssecsvctussseic vei Baesiuk eases iabikniassisbsaisew
3B-5D-3: Levy Of Tax...csssssscssscssssessssesssesssssssscessessesssssasassecssesseesescacseacsesesesnsnesesessees
3-5D-4: Rate Of Levy agaissgasaiscesariniescnansnrsranensmesemonenacsmmnnsnenmnensenesnnneneonaenenemnnscicon
S90 S2hateyLimitanionyaid Eenipron...................sesmmessmemuncmponaseeneual
3-5D-6: Repeal ...............ennesenenswenatensnssscsusiasiaistanesantananisuetesweeseeecesesusscasecesNeuincelisLbuiss
3-5D-7: Repeal .......0::...0.:0.+0:+++<iieiaissareeeaueaRNRbeuisyesaNTlEe a aeNa aeRO ME aaRIC
3-5D-8: Repeal .........:.:+:1.+++++0+5 Ssh iRaSRa Sian TaesNauesepenamipeenenoneenenemonsasennesearenenesneneneneones
3-SD-9: Repeal .....sececesesseceessseesesessssessseenssesesnsscsssesssaesussssesasarensseeneseaneassearsnsanencaseneesenss
3-5D-10: Interpretation...............1.+.:.mssemasnenevennncectieiicbacanenunRansna onaUbNarebaNbcSEGUNENCi

7-3-2: Roadways To Comply With Standards ..0....ccsssssssssssssssssssscscsesscseenenssenesecscaes
CHAPTER 7-4 EXCAVATIONS . vsssssissssoueswssssasassoapws peigicaainasasi esau ba Usa ducabnasieabusetsizatoens
7-4-1: Excavations And Structures In Right Of Way .......ccssssssseseessseseereneseeecareseeseeess
7-4-2; Permit Required 1... ccccsessssecsesesesscsessssesssesenesestenesessesssensseaescensatseersnssceneetassacensees
7-4-4; Insurance Requirementt.............. «wncsssssecssaasssscwasssuuunstassirascancansceunsciescesscasiareet
7-4-6: Franchise Agreements Required sscssassssvcsessssvusascnceasvansnsssspuassscaapeuapitiscasssyinieciuntis
CHAPTER 7-13 SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES. .......ccccssssessssessnesessesessesesecenesesscsesacsecareas
7-13-4: DefinitiOns «0... eeceesessesesesessssessssvescsessnsarsusussenesesnsscanenssssassecisaensesaeceesavensecsueseaneees
7-13-5: License And Other Requirements For Use Of The ROW........c:essssessesesseseseeees
CHAPTER 7-15 CITY RIGHTS-OF-WAY USAGE FEE .......essssssssesessesssseseeseseesesscscsesevavees
7-15-1: Definitions ................asiiiaisancsdcespueeassismsespaeaipiaceaea Gaia stagitéslshimnesatetegoransnnnnsennennsenenes
7-15-2: Use of City Rights-of-Way oc... sesesssssscesssssesesesssessssensseeecsrseeesersesesersnsensssenees
7-15-3: Rate Of Fee ........csccessescseesessessessessesesee 0-577 SRRRORRR OREN IIS bis sue vENUNORERCOUESNGCE

Page 1
51421.00001\42103368.1

HERRIMAN CITY MUNICIPAL CODE

TITLE 3 BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 3-5 TAXES

ARTICLE D: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDERS TAX

3-5D-1: Telecommunications License Tax Act Adopted

The City adopts and incorporates the regulations found in Utah Code § 10-1-401, et seq,
known as the Municipal Telecommunications License Tax Act (“Act”).

3-5D-2: Definitions

. . . . . .
* . . a 1 .
= 7
‘ ae " - * . " .
ud 4 =4

All words and _ phrases in this article shall have the same meaning given to them in the
Act.

3-5D-3: Levy Of Tax

one "1 penta herent ene sense meron “ Yai Eh js

A. A_customer_of a_telecommunication service provider must be offered_a
telecommunication service before the customer __may _be _ offered a

nontelecommunication service.

B. The City levies a municipal telecommunication license tax on the gross receipts
from telecommunications service in accordance with Utah Code § 10-1-407.

Page 2
51421,00001\42103368.1

3-5D-4: Rate Of Levy

” r ee 494) of the-tel _— Sit

; a gi ee i 146-4 ‘cipalitvd
; ith Utah Codes ; ‘on-10-1-407.

All _telecommunication providers offering _nontelecommunication services _ shall
separately identify each telecommunication service and nontelecommunication service

in_a statement of transaction with the customer. The tax levy rate of the
telecommunication provider's gross receipts from residents of the City for
telecommunication services shall be 3.5%. Unless expressly excluded or prohibited by
federal, state, or local laws, the tax levy rate of the telecommunication provider's gross

receipts for nontelecommunication services shall be 5%.

3-5D-5: Rate Limitation And Exemption

A higher rate tax levy rate listed in the Act and in this article may be automatically

applied to telecommunication providers if the higher rate_is approved by a majority vote

of the voters in the City that vote in:

A. A municipal general election; or

B. A regular general election.
3-5D-6: Repeal
3-5D-7: Repeal
3-5D-8: Repeal
3-5D-9: Repeal

3-5D-10: Interpretation

Page 3
51421.00001\42103368. 1

Nothing in this article shall be interpreted to repeal any municipal ordinance or fee which
provides that the municipality may recover from a telecommunications provider the
management costs of the municipality caused by the activities of the telecommunications
provider in the rights of way of the municipality, if the fee is imposed in accordance with
Utah Code § 72-7-102 and is not related to the municipality’s loss of use of a highway as
a result of the activities of the telecommunications provider in a right of way, or increased
deterioration of a highway as a result of the activities of the telecommunications provider
in a right of way, nor does this article limit the municipality’s right to charge fees or taxes
on persons that are not subject to the municipal telecommunications license tax under
this article and locate “telecommunications facilities”, as defined in Utah Code § 72-7-
108, in the municipality.

Page 4
51421.00001\42103368.1

TITLE 7 PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 7-3 ROADWAY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
7-3-1: Definitions

CITY STANDARDS: Herriman City development standards, engineering requirements
and supplemental specifications of public works, fifth edition 2008, or later version,
including Small Cell Design Templates.

SMALL CELL OR SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: Facilities that meet the definition
established at 47 CFR § 1.6002 (1).

7-3-2: Roadways To Comply With Standards

All infrastructure in City right-of-way, including the deployment of Small Cells, shall be
designed and developed pursuant to City Standards, including those outlined in HCC §
7-13.

CHAPTER 7-4 EXCAVATIONS
7-4-1: Excavations And Structures In Right Of Way

A. No right of way of any city road shall be dug up or excavated, and no approach,
road, driveway, pole, pipeline, conduit, sewer, ditch, culvert, billboard,
advertising sign, small cell, or other structure or object of any kind or character,
shall be placed, constructed or maintained within any such right of way, except as
permitted by the City, and in accordance with the regulations of the City.

B. Any person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a class C
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code.

7-4-2: Permit Required

It is unlawful for any person to tunnel under or to make any excavation in any street,
alley or other public place, or to occupy any part of the street, alley or other public place
without first entering into a franchise agreement or license agreement for the use of said
public assets in which such party commits to complying with the provisions of this
chapter and obtaining a permit therefor and paying the fee as required in the current fee

Page 5
51421.00001\42103368.1

schedule. An emergency excavation may be made without prior permit if the reason for
the excavation is to prevent loss of life or damage to property that appears to be imminent
if the excavation is delayed by waiting to contact the City. In such emergency situations,
the excavating parties shall contact the City on the first working day following the
excavation and complete and secure a formal permit. None of the provisions of these
specifications are waived for emergency situations, except for prior permit requirement.

7-4-4: Insurance Requirements

No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has posted with
the City a certificate of insurance in a company authorized to issue insurance by the state,
evidencing that such applicant has comprehensive general liability and property damage
policy thatineludes-contractualtiability-ecoverage-with. Minimum contractual liability
coverage shall include two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) for injuries,
including accidental death to any one person in any occurrence; in an amount not less
than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) on account of injuries sustained by two
(2) or more persons in any one occurrence, and property damage insurance in an amount
not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for any one occurrence. The
City can include additional fees as deemed necessary to provide traffic control,
emergency services or other service costs. The City can also impose the requirement for
bonding and insurance based on the discretion of the City. The insurance policies shall
further contain the following provisions:

A. To indemnify, save harmless and defend the City and its officers and employees
against any claim or loss, damage or expense, sustained on account of damages to
persons or property occurring by reason of an excavation made by the permittee,
his subcontractor or agent, whether or not the excavation has been filled or
resurfaced and whether or not the surface has been opened to public travel;

B. To indemnify, save harmless and defend the City from any and all liability for the
City’s own negligence occurring by reason of the opening or excavation. This
indemnification agreement covering the City’s liability for its own negligence shall
not apply to injuries or damages sustained while city employees are present at the
excavation pouring cement or asphalt therein;

C. To indemnify, hold harmless and defend the City, and its officers and employees,
against any claim or loss, damage or expense sustained on account of damages
occurring by reason of failure to maintain proper barricades and/or lights as
required from the time of the opening of the excavation until the excavation is
surfaced and opened for travel;

Page 6
51421.00001\42103368.1

D. Naming the City as an additional insured and providing that thirty (30) days’
notice shall be given to the City prior to termination of the policy, for any reason.
Prior to cancellation of insurance, the permittee shall forthwith close the
excavation and complete all work site restoration work.

7-4-6: Franchise Agreements Required

bidebws ; + atthactaned keanchs
Utilities, service districts, telecommunication providers, broadband internet providers,
cable providers, or other similar providers shall obtain a franchise agreement or license
agreement with the City, to which the City has sole discretion to approve such
agreements, or deviate from the requirements found in City Code. Those who have a
franchise agreement or license agreement with the City are required to abide by the
requirements of the signed agreement.

CHAPTER 7-13 SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES

7-13-4: Definitions

SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: Has the same meaning given to it by the Federal

Communications Commission.

7-13-5: License And Other Requirements For Use Of The ROW

A. Except to the extent exempted by Federal or State law, every provider must obtain
a site license for each wireless facility and structure to be constructed or installed
in the ROW. When a provider applies for a site license, if the provider and the

Page 7
51421.00001\42103368.1

City have not already executed a Master License Agreement, the City will provide
the provider with a copy of the City’s standard Master License Agreement. The
City will not issue any site licenses to a provider until the provider and the City
have executed a Master License Agreement.

B. Before offering or providing any services pursuant to the Master License
Agreement, a provider shall obtain any and all regulatory approvals, permits,
authorizations or licenses for the offering or provision of such services from the
appropriate Federal, State and local authorities, if required, and shall submit to the
City upon the written request of the City evidence of all such approvals, permits,
authorizations or licenses.

C. The grant of a license to a provider will not excuse the provider from obtaining: 1)
any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of transacting and
carrying on a business within the City required by the ordinances and laws of the
City; 2) any other permit, agreement or authorization required in connection with
the use of property or facilities owned by third parties; or 3) any other permit or
authorization required in connection with excavating or performing other work in
or along the ROW, including City’s Design template.

CHAPTER 7-15 CITY RIGHTS-OF-WAY USAGE FEE

7-15-1: Definitions

All words and phrases in this article shall have the following meanings ascribed to them:

BROADBAND INTERNET PROVIDER: A person that (i) owns, controls, operates, or
manages broadband internet services; or (ii) engages in an activity described in (i) for the
shared use with or resale to any person of the broadband internet services.

BROADBAND INTERNET SERVICES: has the same meaning as 47 CFR 8.1(b).

CABLE PROVIDER: A person that (i) owns, controls, operates, or manages cable
television services; or (ii) engages in an activity described in (i) for the shared use with or
resale to any person of the eable television services.

CABLE TELEVISION SERVICES: has the same meaning as Utah Code § 10-18-102(1).

GROSS RECEIPTS FOR SERVICES: The revenue that _a provider receives-earns for
services rendered to residents of the City.

Page 8
51421.00001\42103368.1

PERSON: has the same meaning as in City Code § 1-3-2.

PROVIDER: A_person-company;-or-entity that owns, controls, operates, or manages

services offered to the public, including, but not limited to, cable television services
provider, broadband internet services provider, or utility services provider, located in

City rights-of-way.

SERVICES: The services a provider offers to residents of the state by using City rights-of-
way. Services include cable television services, broadband internet services, and utility

services.

7-15-2: Use of City Rights-of-Way

A. A_provider shall obtain a franchise or license agreement before installing any
infrastructure in City rights-of-way in accordance with Section 7-4-6.

B. In consideration of using City rights-of-way and unless prohibited by federal or
state law, the City shall levy a fee on all providers.

7-15-3: Rate Of Fee

Providers shall separately identify each service received by a customer in its statement of

transaction. Unless expressly excluded or prohibited by federal, state, or local laws, the

fee levy rate shall be 5% of the provider's gross receipts for services or the highest fee

allowed by federal, state, or local laws. If a provider does not have gross receipts for

services, the fee levy rate shall be determined by the City Council.

7-15-4: Payment of Fee

Providers shall make payments due under this chapter within 30 days after each quarter:

March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31. Failure to make timely payments
shall result in a 8% penalty of the unpaid amount. If a provider underpays any amounts

owed to the City, there shall be a 5% penalty of the unpaid amount.

Page 9
51421.00001\42103368.1

