HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-21

AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 10 LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE FOR CONSISTENCY WITH
PROVISIONS IN TITLE 3 BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS AND TITLE 5 PUBLIC
SAFETY TO REGULATE THE LOCATION, NUMBER, AND LICENSING OF ANIMALS.

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to Utah State Code, may adopt an ordinance to
establish land development regulations (“Zoning”), which includes the adoption or amendment of Zoning
text or map; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission (the “Commission”) shall
prepare and recommend any Zoning text amendments to the City Council (the “Council”); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Commission shall
hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days prior to the said public hearing
to recommend any Zoning text amendments to the Council; and

WHEREAS, a notice of a Planning Commission public hearing on a Zoning text amendment was
posted in three (3) public locations and mailed to affected entities on or before July 5, 2024, for a meeting
to be held on July 17, 2024, at 7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Commission voted 4-0 to recommend approval of the Zoning text amendment in
a public meeting held on July 17, 2024, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council Chamber; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the Council to consider
the Zoning text amendment and Commission’s recommendation in a public meeting; and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on August 14, 2024, at 7:00 p.m. to discuss
the Zoning text amendment; and

WHEREAS, the Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman City to
adopt the Zoning text amendment, which was recommended by the Planning Commission and
documented in City File number Z2024-031;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council for approval to amend the
Herriman City Land Development Code, Title 10, as described in Exhibit “A”.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2024-21, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 14" day of August 2024.

HERRIMAN CITY

Zac F——

ATTEST: Mgyor‘Lorin Palmer

HERRIMAN

cry :
1999 NS
of y


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2024-21

SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL AMENDING HERRIMAN CITY
CODE TITLE 10 FOR CONSISTENCY WITH PROVISIONS IN TITLE 3, BUSINESS AND
LICENSE REGULATIONS, AND TITLE 5, PUBLIC SAFETY, TO REGULATE THE LOCATION,
NUMBER AND LICENSING OF ANIMALS

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
Lorin Palmer x
Jared Henderson X
Teddy Hodges xX
Sherrie Ohrn xX
Steven Shields xX xX
TOTALS ea 4

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 14" day of
August 2024, on a roll call vote as described above.

Exhibit A

The following text is comprised of excerpts from various sections of Herriman City Code to provide context

for this ordinance. Only text marked by an underline or strike-through shall be amended by the codifier
unless otherwise required to correct a scrivner’s error including but not limited to format, grammar,
punctuation, and spelling.

HERRIMAN CITY CODE
Title 10 Land Development Code
Chapter 10-3 Definitions
10-3-5: Definitions, Generally

ANIMAL SERVICES: The Animal Services Department of Herriman City, Utah, or other agency/entity
that provides animal control services for the City.

ANIMALS AND FOWL FOR FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION: The keeping of the animals and fowl
on a lot for exclusive use by persons residing thereon as provided in section 10-29-7 of this title.

BEEKEEPER: A person who owns or has charge of one or more colonies of bees.

BEEKEEPING EQUIPMENT: Anything used in the operation of an apiary, such as hive bodies, supers,
frames, top and bottom boards, and extractors.

COLONY: Bees in any hive including queens, workers, or drones.

CORRAL: A space, other than a building, less than one acre in area or less than one hundred feet (100)
in width, used for the confinement of animals.


10-3-6: Definitions, Land Use Categories
A. Agricultural Uses:

AGRICULTURAL BUSINESS: Agricultural activity involving the keeping, grazing, and pasturing of
animals and fowl for commercial gain, excluding public and private stables. Typical uses include animal
feed yards, apiaries, aviaries, commercial poultry and egg production, and fur farms.

AGRICULTURAL PROCESSING: An industry or business involving agricultural products or byproducts
in processing, packaging, treatment, and sales, excluding slaughterhouses. Typical uses include
commercial milk production, food-packaging, and food processing plants.

AGRICULTURE: The tilling of soil, raising of crops, horticulture and gardening, but not including the
keeping or raising of animals or fowl and not including any agricultural business as defined in this section.

APIARY: Any place where one or more colonies of bees are located.

STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building for the keeping of horses owned by the occupants
of the premises and not kept for remuneration, hire, or sale.

STABLE, PUBLIC: A stable other than a private stable.
D. Commercial Uses

AGRICULTURAL SALES AND SERVICE: An establishment primarily engaged in the sale or rental of
animal care products; anhydrous ammonia; farm supplies, tools and implements; feed and grain; tack; and
the like; including accessory machinery repair services.

ANIMAL CARE SERVICE: An establishment providing care and treatment for animals, including
grooming, but excluding a kennel.

KENNEL: A commercial establishment having three (3) or more dogs for the purpose of boarding,
breeding, buying, grooming, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling said dogs.

RETAIL, GENERAL: An establishment that rents or sells goods to the public, but excluding uses
specifically classified in another term in this section. Typical uses include apparel stores, antique shops,
art and hobby supply stores, bicycle shops, bookstores, clothing rental stores, department stores, discount
stores, drugstores, electronic appliance stores, florists, furniture and appliance stores, gift and novelty
shops, glass and mirror shops, grocery stores, hardware stores, jewelry stores, medical supply stores,
music stores, optical retail sales, paint stores, pet stores, sporting goods stores, toy stores, and variety
stores.

CHAPTER 10-16 TABLE OF USES (EXCERPT)

10-16-1: Uses Any use showing an empty box for a particular zone or any use not shown on this table is
not permitted. See footnotes for qualifying requirements or use limitations.

Legend:
P = Permitted use C =Conditional use Blank = Not permitted
Uses’ Zones

oO
wT

oO
a

T-M
M-2
MU

MU-2

R-1-43
OP
C-1
C-2
M-1

A-1-10
A-1-21
A-1-43
R-1-10
R-1-15
R-1-21
R-2-10
R-2-15
R-20
FR?

| Agricultural:
Agricultural
business
Agricultural C P
processing
Agriculture P| P| P| P
Apiary? P| P|P
Backyard P| P
chickens‘
Family food P|} P|P P jf P
production‘
Fargisr P/|P|P/P|/P/}P|P/} P| R
aniRRa
permit!
Fester P;}/P|P|P/}P/}P|P/} PP
animals
permit?
Hobby P|/|P|P/P|P}|P|P] PP
animal
permit’
Stable, P| P| P
private
Stable, public C
Commercial:
Animal care C Cl" ce | pa] p Pp [cu] p
service
Kennel C C

oO
lp)
(~)
oO

ms
me)
me)
me

me)
UV
vU
ae]

hav)
me)
me]

Notes:

' Accessory uses are allowed in all zones, but only if incidental to a permitted or conditional use and as provided in section 10-
29-5 of this title.

2 Includes FR-1, FR-2.5, FR-5, FR-10, and FR-20 Zones.

3 Apiary only, subject to section 10-29-11 of this title.

4 See section 10-29-7 of this title for regulations allowing animals and fowl for family food production-aaihteetaeloe-enimal
fancier-hobby-and-exetic_animatpermits. The keeping of more animals than listed in the chart shown in section 10-29-7 of
this title may be approved as a conditional use in the A-.25, A-.50, and A-1 Zones.

‘7 Must be located within a completely enclosed air-conditioned and soundproof building which prohibits detection of animal
noise at the property line. No overnight boarding or sale of merchandise from the premises.

'8 Excludes overnight boarding.

'S Must be located within a completely enclosed building; no overnight boarding.

20 Limited to dog and cat grooming, excluding overnight boarding.

10-29-7: Animals and Fowl

A. Permitted-fer Family Food Production—Authorized When: The keeping of animals and fowl is
allowed as set forth in the chart below in the A-1-10, A-1-21, A-1-43, R-1-21, and R-1-43 Zones.

1. The number of animals and fowl may be doubled temporarily if the increase is related strictly to
meat or milk production, or for a bona fide youth project such as 4-H and fair projects.

2. The keeping of more animals and fowl than listed in the chart or allowed temporarily for meat or
milk production may be approved in zones where family food production is allowed as a
conditional use.

3. Small animals and fowl shall be rabbits, chickens (including hens and pullets but excluding
roosters), pheasants, ducks, and pigeons. Medium animals and fowl shall be sheep, goats, turkeys,
geese, and miniature horses. Large animals shall be cows, horses, and alpaca.

4. The keeping of animals and fowl shall conform to good animal husbandry practices including, but
not limited to, mitigation of noise, smells, insects, rodents, dust, or other nuisances resulting from
the keeping of animals and fowl.

5. No animals or fowl described in subsection A3 of this section shall be kept or maintained closer
than forty feet (40') from any dwelling on an adjacent parcel of land, and no barn, stable, coop,
pen, or corral shall be kept closer than forty feet (40') from any street.

Zone Lot Size 0.49 Acre orLess | 0.5 Acre to 0.99 Acre Per 1 Acre +

A-1-10 | Permitted: Permitted: Permitted:

A-1-21 | 40 small animals and 75 small animals, 100 small animals,
A-1-43  |2 medium animals 4 medium animals, and 15 medium animals, and
R-1-21 2 large animals 4 large animals

R-1-43


FB.Backyard Chickens—Authorized When: In R-1 and R-2 Zones not included under family food
production, persons may keep backyard chickens on detached single-family residential lots in
accordance with the provisions of this subsection:

1. Maximum Number of Backyard Chickens Allowed:

Lot Size (Square Feet) Maximum Number of Chickens
Less than 5,000 0

5,000 to 7,999 4

8,000 to 9,999 6

10,000 or more 10

2. At Large: It is unlawful for any person who is the owner, keeper, or temporary custodian of any
chicken to allow the animal(s) to be at large, off the premises or outside the approved enclosure.

10.

Unsanitary Conditions And Animal Husbandry: It is unlawful for any person to keep and maintain
in an unclean or unsanitary condition any coop, enclosure or other structure or area in which any
chicken is kept. The keeping of animals must conform with good animal husbandry practices
including, but not limited to, mitigation of noise, smells, insects, rodents, dust, or other nuisance
type effects of family food production.

Nuisance: It is unlawful for the owner or keeper of any chicken to allow the animal(s) to be a
nuisance to any neighbor, including, but not limited to, creating noxious odors from the animals,
their waste, coop, or related structure or generating noise of a loud and persistent nature.

Subject to Inspection: All places where any backyard chickens are kept shall be subject to
inspection for cleanliness, health, and sanitation purposes by a Code enforcement official, animal
service officer, or representative of the Salt Lake Valley Health Department, based on any
complaint or observation that the requirements of this subsection are in violation.

Female Chickens Only: Only female chickens may be kept. No ducks, geese, turkeys, peafowl,
crowing hens, or roosters may be kept. No other bird species shall be kept except as provided by
this Code and birds normally and generally considered household or indoor pets.

Accessory Buildings: Chicken coops shall be considered accessory buildings and are subject to
the accessory building requirements of the zone in which the property is located.

Personal Use Only: Chickens shall be for personal use only. The selling of eggs or fertilizer or the
breeding of chickens for commercial use is prohibited.

Slaughtering: The slaughtering of chickens on the premises is allowed in areas not visible to the
public and must be accomplished in a humane and sanitary fashion. All entrails and byproducts of
the slaughtering process shall be discarded in accordance with Health Department regulations.

Enclosure Standards:
a. Chickens must be contained within an enclosure or fenced area at all times.

b. Chicken enclosures shall be contained entirely behind a fence in the side or rear yard. No
enclosures will be permitted in any front yard.

c. Chicken coops shall be maintained in good condition.

d. All chicken coops shall be placed at least twenty five feet (25') from any dwelling on an
adjacent lot.

