ORDINANCE NO. 2024-04

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HERRIMAN, UTAH,
TO REPEAL AND RESTATE CHAPTER 5-1: ANIMAL SERVICES, ENACT CHAPTER
3-13; ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS, AND GIVE NOTICE OF PENDING
ORDINANCE TO MAKE POSSIBLE CHANGES IN TITLE 10: LAND USE
DEVELOPMENT - RELATED TO ANIMALS AND ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS.

WHEREAS, most of the animal regulations are located in Chapter 5.1: Animal
Services, and Title 10: Land Use Development.

WHEREAS, over the past three years, the Council has discussed changing the
regulation of animals within the City.

WHEREAS, Staff has drafted a major overhaul of the animal services regulations,
and permitting process for animal establishments as shown in Exhibit A.

WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public meeting and reviewed the subject
text amendment and finds that the subject text amendment will enhance public health,
safety, and welfare.

WHEREAS, additionally, because any changes to land use regulations must
comply with additional requirements in Utah’s Municipal Land Use Development And
Management Act, the City Council finds that it would be appropriate to enter a Notice of
Pending Ordinance for animal establishments found in Title 10.

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that studying the issues presented in the Notice
of Pending ordinance and potentially adopting a future ordinance is in the best interest
of public health, safety, and welfare.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
HERRIMAN, UTAH:

SECTION 1. Text Amendment. The City Council hereby adopts the text
amendments shown in Exhibit A.

SECTION 2. Notice of Pending Ordinance. The Council hereby adopts a Notice
of Pending Ordinance related to animal establishments in Title 10. See Exhibit B.

SECTION 3. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon passage.

APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HERRIMAN, UTAH, ON

THIS 13™ DAY OF MARCH, 2024.
Mayor: LY.

in Palmer’

Attest:

A / ON
iit ~bh Wh
Qs. 1999, se M/Z
eee

Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2024-04
SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE REPEALING AND RESTATING CHAPTERS 5-1: ANIMAL
SERVICES, ENACT CHAPTER 3-13: ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS, AND GIVE NOTICE
OF PENDING ORDINANCE TO MAKE POSSIBLE CHANGES IN TITLE 10: LAND USE
DEVELOPMENT — RELATED TO ANIMALS AND ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
Lorin Palmer x

Jared Henderson xX

Teddy Hodges xX x

Sherrie Ohrn x

Steven Shields xX

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 13" day of
March 2024, on a roll call vote as described above.


Table of Contents

TITLE 5 PUBLIC SAFETY... ccc eeecscsscesseetcessessceseesseeecateresesecessseatseuseaseraseeessenssneseesvecenaveaseuseass 2
CHAPTER 5-1 ANIMAL SERVICES .........c:ccsccssssccesessessceessesscesscssscsseeseeceescsescaseeeseaceaseaeessss 2
5-1-1: Definitions ..............:ccsccecesscssseccessouseabdaiediaubiuaniilea ieatiiiescca tub esisbapssadsicicsicsbieetoaicebsries 2
5-1-2: Animal Control Officers................-diissiseadeshpasenssdensesausceuseselcenanaussesluONiCROR ER - 4
5-1-3: Vicious Or Dangerous Amimalls .......:cscecessesssestseenesssesesssesesesensnsestansuesensatsnensnenens 4
5-1-4: Compliance with City Code and Unlawful Acts ......cssscsesssssssessseneneeteneneenenes 5
5-1-5: IMPOUNAMEN .. raserasoesssncconeenosunrencsunnansavanienesansnesuccensveneswaveasncouauaansvanvaciauseesbinset 5
5-1-6: Cruelty .. swsssscsssssusnoncasccsicscusnaccsussisitcsssicsqcustecavets setae iiss biekussaiassssplillewssacussabatins 7
5-1-7: Keeping and Selling Wild or Dangerous Animals .........ccccsssssseseseseseseneneeesees 8
5-1-8: Number of Domestic Animals Per Household ..........:cc:cssseeseessesceecsarscceeeseveceness 8
5-1-9: Dead Animals ..........ccccccssccsseessesseesscessesseesesscesscsestessessceaserssesecesseseessssucsssaeeesenaees 9
5-1-10: Emergency Destruction of Animals sisississscassussseccsncccaccnsinscecssscasenssontevsesavess 9
D-1-11: Licenses Required .............ss0++ss++ss+u+piiesissapGinnstiian kana dapague vues oa baaapnaceneonnasnase 9
5-1-12: Issuance Of LiCCNSC..........csccessesesseseeesescerssssessersceesceescersseeseaceasesscesserseseseatensuse 10
ot GO CHA A (ceva lg a f-|: ee a 11
5=1=14: JREStI a ITS cpecsesneaseniseenssaesocesassctmsocescesaecitieses Gas eet SNS NSNUS SONIA ORIN: 11
5-1-16: Attacking Dogs ssissscsivsccssusnsncssssccwnseiniisutcewsssntsdtebisseivichestbiywossshessasilssenesscosiitens 11
5-1-17: Vicious AnimalS: sgcssisspsvecacsuccossensencaspeatancaseauaiasvaseiaassassskesseesvaensesacyyeeresecesareoeoee: 11
5-1-18: Rabie .........ccssessesssscesseesesseatessesscenecnsessssesesencassesesscenscsdsecseesensssssaveesesacavenseasenseeees 12
5-1-18: Pernalties......cceecsessessesseessescesseeseescescescssessesesscessceesececsusessecceusseesseesesseseassasaeseceass 14
TITLE 3 BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONG.........cccccsscsesssssceccsssecssverseeessasensceceasene 16
CHAPTER 3-13 ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS. .........cccccccescecseseesseeseeseeasessesererenseacsaceaense 16
3-13-1 Definitions ........ccccsceseescessessesscessessensessesesscsessesescesscsesssssasesscacevsseesenccaseaseacsacsacene 16
3-13-2 POrMit ssssisscessisnvcessvenssswnsussunviasnssnrevaacenseresvecssmeiiecinesciaivcccecbiactnccéisiieseseaeasiNitits 16
3-13-3 Issuance and Revocation. ...............+«deeanyseesiessiucecmustisseduupiienssuewusspeueswassscnapevsenasess 17

TITLE 5 PUBLIC SAFETY

CHAPTER 5-1 ANIMAL SERVICES
5-1-1: Definitions
As used in this title:

ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any City police officer or other person appointed or
designated an animal control officer by the City manager, or any officer or employee of
another local government agency acting pursuant to a contract with the City.

ANIMAL UNDER RESTRAINT: An animal shall only be deemed under restraint if
controlled or confined by a leash, cage, pen, inside a stationary vehicle such that the
animal is prevented from leaving the vehicle, inside a residence, confined within a secure
fence structure, secured by a restraint such that the animal cannot get loose, or if in the
case of a dog the dog is within the real property limits of the owner and the owner is
physically present with the dog.

BITE: An actual puncture, tear, bruising, or abrasion of the skin inflicted by the teeth of
an animal.

DOMESTICATED ANIMAL: Animals accustomed to living in or about the habitation of
a person, including dogs, cats, and rabbits. Domesticated animals do not include
livestock, domesticated reptiles, or rodents.

HARBOR: Includes any act of sheltering or providing a home for an animal, or two (2) or
more acts of feeding an animal.

LEASH: Any chain, rope, or lead used to restrain an animal. A leash does not include an
electronic collar or an owner using sight or sound to control an animal.

LIVESTOCK: Animals commonly used on farms or agricultural property, including
horses, colts, mules, sheep, goats, cows, cattle, lamas, alpacas, jack, jennet, burro, emus,
hogs, and swine. Livestock does not include domesticated animals.

OWNER: Means and includes:
A. The owner of an animal;

B. Any person harboring an animal on a constant or continuous basis for one week
or more;

C. Any agent of the owner charged with the care of the animal;

D. Any person residing with the owner and present at a time when the owner is
absent, and the animal violates this title; or

E. Any person having the care, custody, or control of an animal.

PET SHOP: Any establishment containing cages or exhibition pens, not part of a kennel
or cattery, wherein dogs, cats, birds, or other pets for sale are kept or displayed.

QUARANTINE: The isolation of an animal in a substantial enclosure so that the animal
is not subject to contact with other animals or unauthorized persons.

STRAY: Any animal for which no person is responsible.

VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Means any animal that, because of its aggressive
nature, training, or characteristic behavior, presents a risk of severe physical harm or
death to human beings or would constitute a danger to human life, physical well-being,
or property if not kept under the direct control of the custodian. This definition shall not
apply to animals utilized by law enforcement officers in performing their duties. The
term “vicious animal” includes any animal that, according to the records of the City
police department or any law enforcement agency:

A. Has aggressively bitten, attacked, endangered, or inflicted injury requiring
medical attention on a human being on public or private property or without
adequate provocation;

B. Has chased or approached a person upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public
grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack;

C. Has severely injured or killed a domestic animal while off the owner's property;
or

D. Has been used in or trained for animal fighting.

WILD ANIMAL: An animal of a species that is not a domesticated animal or livestock.
Such animals include:

A. Alligators, crocodiles, and caiman.

B. Bears.

m

co

—_

Cat family. All cats, including cheetahs, cougars, leopards, lions, lynx, panthers,
mountain lions, tigers, and wildcats, except the commonly accepted domesticated
cats.

. Dog family. All dogs, including wolves, foxes, coyotes, and wild dingoes, except

the commonly accepted domesticated dogs. (Any dog crossbred with a wild
animal as described above shall be considered a wild animal.)

Porcupines.

All subhuman primates.
Raccoons.

Skunks.

Venomous snakes or lizards.
Venomous fish and piranha.

Weasels. All weasels, including martens, wolverines, badgers, otters, ermines,
mink, and mongooses, except the commonly accepted domesticated ferrets. (The
possession of mink shall not be prohibited when raised commercially for their
pelts, in or upon a properly constructed legally operated ranch.)

5-1-2: Animal Control Officers

A.

B.

All animal control officers are responsible for enforcing this chapter.

Any person who knowingly and intentionally interferes with an animal control
officer while said officer is performing his or her duties as an animal control officer
shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.

5-1-3: Vicious or Dangerous Animals

A.

Prohibited: Owning or possessing a vicious or dangerous animal within the City
shall be unlawful. Whenever a prosecution for this offense is commenced under
this section, the animal so involved may not be redeemed, pursuant to the
provisions of this party, while awaiting a final decision of the court as to the
disposition to be made of such animal.

Disposition: Upon a matter before the court under this section, the court may,
upon conviction and in addition to any sentence or sanction, order the animal

control officer to put the animal to death or may order such other disposition of
the animal as will protect the inhabitants of the City.

5-1-4: Compliance with City Code and Unlawful Acts

A.

Compliance with City Code: All owners must comply with all City Code
provisions, including Title 10 (Land Development Code) and Title 3 (Business
Licensing).

Unlawful Acts: An owner shall prohibit an animal from the following:

1. Injure or bite a person or animal, or cause damage to the property of another
person. A violation of this subsection (1) shall be a class b misdemeanor.

2. Poop on any public sidewalk, park, or building, or on any private property
without the consent of the owner of such private property, unless the owner
of such animal shall immediately and properly dispose of the feces.

3. Bark, whine, howl, or make other disturbing noises that are excessive or
continuous.

4. Cross onto the property of another unless the owner has the permission of
the affected property owner.

Livestock: It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having custody,
possession, or control of any livestock to allow, either negligently or with specific
intent, the livestock to run at large in or about public property or a roadway, where
such is not permitted by law, or otherwise permit the animal to be herded,
pastured or to go upon the ground of another without permission.

Wild Animals: A wild animal shall not be kept or harbored in any area of the City.

Strict Liability: The owner of an animal shall be strictly liable for any personal
injury or damage caused by such animal.

5-1-5: Impoundment

A,

Impoundable Animals: The following animals may be impounded:

1. Any animal being kept, maintained, or harbored contrary to the provisions
of this chapter;

2. Sick or injured animals whose owner cannot be located;

Any apparent stray or abandoned animal;
Animals that are not vaccinated for rabies; and

Any dangerous animal or vicious animal who poses a threat to public
safety.

B. Records To Be Kept: Animal control shall keep accurate records that include:

1.

2.

7.

8.

A complete description of the animal, including any tag numbers;
The manner and date of impound;

The location of the impound and name of the officer impounding the
animal;

The manner and date of disposal;
The name and address of the redeemer or purchaser;

The name and address of any person relinquishing an animal to the
impound facility;

All fees received;

All expenses accruing during impoundment.

C. Disposition Of Animals:

1.

Transfer To Facility: All impounded animals shall be promptly transferred
to the City animal control facility.

Minimum Stay: Animals shall be impounded for a minimum of five (5)
business days before further disposition, except as otherwise provided in
this section. Reasonable effort shall be made to notify the owner of any
animal wearing a license or other identification during that time.

Further Disposition: All dogs and cats, except for those required to be
quarantined or confined, which have been held longer than the minimum
impound period, and all dogs and cats voluntarily relinquished to the
impound facility, may be destroyed, adopted, or rescued. Any healthy dog
or cat may be adopted to any responsible person desiring to adopt such
animal for a fee set by resolution of the City council, plus license and rabies

vaccination, if required. Upon destruction of an animal, the owner of the
animal shall pay the animal destruction fee set by resolution of the City
council.

Veterinary Services: Any animal impounded and suspected of having a
serious physical injury or contagious disease requiring veterinary attention
may be released to the care of a veterinarian with the owner's consent.
Upon release from veterinary treatment, such animal shall return to
impoundment unless redeemed, adopted, or rescued.

D. Redemption: The owner of any impounded animal or his or her authorized
representative may redeem such animal before disposition provided he or she

pays:
1. The impound fee to the City;
2. The boarding fee charged by the facility having charge of the animal;
3. Any veterinary costs incurred during the impound period, including a
reasonable fee for any required rabies vaccination; and
4. License fee, if a license is required.
5-1-6: Cruelty

Criminal Acts: In addition to all provisions of Utah Code § 76-9-301, et seq., the following
are also unlawful and a class B misdemeanor:

A. Animals In Vehicles: A person may not carry or confine any animal in or upon any
vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner, including, but not limited to, carrying or
confining such animal without adequate ventilation or for an unusual length of

time.

B. Animals Without Food, Water, or Shelter: A person may not chain, stake out, or
tether any animal on any premises in a manner that prevents the animal from
having adequate access to food, water, or shelter.

C. Injury To Animals By Motorists:

1.

Aid: Every operator of a vehicle upon the streets of the City shall
immediately, upon injuring, striking, maiming, or running down any
livestock or domestic animal, give such aid as can reasonably be rendered.

In the absence of the owner, he or she shall immediately notify the police
department, furnishing requested facts relative to such injury.

2. Remaining At Scene: It shall be the duty of such operator to remain at or
near the scene until such time as the appropriate authorities arrive, and
upon the arrival of such authorities, the operator shall immediately identify
himself or herself to such authorities. Alternatively, in the absence of the
owner, a person may give aid by taking the animal to the animal control
facility or other appropriate facility and notifying the police department.
Such animal may be taken in by the animal control facility and dealt with
as deemed appropriate under the circumstances.

3. Emergency Vehicles: Emergency vehicles are exempted from the
requirements of this section.

4. Violation: A violation of this subsection is an infraction.

D. Animals For Fighting: A person may not raise, keep or use any animal, fowl, or
bird for the purpose of fighting or baiting; and for any person to be a party to or
be present as a spectator at any such fighting or baiting of any animal or fowl; and
for any person, firm or corporation to knowingly rent any building, shed, room,
yard, ground or premises for any such purposes, or to knowingly permit the use
of his or her buildings, sheds, rooms, yards, grounds, or premises for such
purposes.

5-1-7: Keeping And Selling Wild Or Dangerous Animals

It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, barter, give away, keep, or purchase
any wild or dangerous animal. This section does not apply to an animal shelter, a
zoological park, a veterinary hospital, a humane society shelter, a public laboratory, a
circus, a sideshow, an amusement show, or an education facility or scientific purposes
may keep such an animal if protective devices adequate to prevent such animal from
escaping or injuring the public are provided.

5-1-8: Number of Domestic Animals Per Household
A. Number of Animals: An owner shall comply with the following:

1. No more than three (3) domesticated animals of any one species and no
more than four (4) domesticated animals of any combination of species.

2. Domesticated animals that are four (4) months of age or older must be
licensed through Herriman City within thirty (30) days of acquisition or
thirty (30) days from the date the domesticated animal is four (4) months of
age.

B. Exceptions: A person or establishment is exempt from subsection (A) in the
following circumstances:

1. One litter of domesticated animals may be allowed per residential unit.
Litters must be rehomed, sold, or adopted by the age of four (4) months.

2. Animal establishments expressly authorized by other provisions of City
Code or operated by a state or local government agency.

C. License: Nothing in this section exempts any animal from the license requirements
of this chapter.

5-1-9: Dead Animals

It shall be the duty of every owner of any animal found dead within the City to
immediately notify the police department of the location of such animals, so that the same
may be removed as speedily as possible. It is unlawful for any person knowingly to
permit any dead animal to remain upon the premises of such person, or for the owner of
any dead animal knowingly to permit the same to remain upon any public street or other
public property or upon any premises within the City, for more than three (3) hours
without notifying the police department of the location of the same. If the owner of such
dead animal does not remove it or cause it to be properly removed, the City may cause it
to be removed and thereupon assess the costs of such against the owner, and may avail
itself of all remedies in law and equity to enforce such removal and recover the costs
thereof. Any person violating the provisions of this section either by failing to do those
acts required herein or by doing any act prohibited herein, shall be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such.

5-1-10: Emergency Destruction Of Animals

When, in the judgment of a police officer or animal control officer, it is determined that
an animal should be destroyed for humane reasons or to protect the public from
imminent danger to persons or property, such animal may be destroyed without regard
to any time limitations otherwise established in this chapter, and without court order.

5-1-11: Licenses Required

A. Licenses: All domesticated animals are required to be licensed.

B. Exceptions: Subsection (A) shall not apply to:

1.

4,

Dogs whose owners have been present in the City for thirty (30) days or
less, but only so long as said dogs remain in the care and custody of a
responsible person;

Dogs that are held for sale as the inventory of or patients in a properly
licensed kennel, pet store, dog dealer, veterinary hospital, or clinic;

. Dogs especially trained to assist officials or government agencies in

performance of their duties and are owned by such agencies; or

Dogs under four (4) months of age.

Nothing in this section shall be considered so as to exempt any animal from having
a current rabies vaccination.

C. Exemptions From Fees: Dogs especially trained to assist officials or government
agencies in the performance of their duties, which government agencies own, shall
not be required to pay licensing fees.

5-1-12: Issuance Of License

1. Procedures: The City shall issue a license for a dog located in the City upon
satisfaction of the following conditions:

1.

10

Application: The owner of the dog to be licensed completes an approved
application.

Fee: The owner of the dog to be licensed pays the fee required for a license,
which fee may be set by resolution of the City council.

Rabies Vaccination: Satisfactory proof is provided that the dog has been
effectively vaccinated for rabies or a notarized letter from a veterinarian is
provided stating the dog cannot be vaccinated due to health reasons.

Liability Insurance Required: Any dog required to be licensed shall be
covered by homeowner, renter, or other liability insurance.

2. Receipt And Tag: Upon issuing a license, the City shall give to the owner of the
licensed dog a receipt and tag evidencing issuance of the license and showing for
reference the number of the license.

5-1-13: Wearing Tag

Every owner of a dog or cat shall at all times cause the dog or cat to wear the license tag
ona collar or other means of attaching the tag to the dog or cat. An animal control officer
may presume that a dog or cat not wearing a tag is unlicensed.

5-1-14: Restraints

The owner of a dog shall restrain a dog by a leash not to exceed eight (8) feet in length.
An owner of an animal not restrained as provided in this section shall be strictly liable
for any damage caused by such animal.

5-1-16: Attacking Dogs

A. Prohibited: No owner of a domesticated animal shall permit an unprovoked
attack, chase, or harass any person, or any domestic animal, such that injury occurs
or, in the case of a person, substantial fear of an injury is caused.

B. Violation: The violation of subsection A of this section shall be a class B
misdemeanor.

C. Mitigation: The following shall be considered in mitigating the penalties or
damages or in dismissing the charge:

1. That the domesticated animal was properly confined on the premises; and
2. That the domesticated animal was deliberately or maliciously provoked.
5-1-17: Vicious Animals

A. Petition To Court: The City may petition the court to determine that a
domesticated animal or livestock is a vicious animal. The following factors may
be considered but the court may consider other factors in its discretion:

1. Provocation in any attack by the animal;

2. The nature and severity of the attack or injury to a person or domestic
animal by the animal;

11

3. Previous history of aggression of the animal or inadequate control by the
custodian;

4. Observable behavior of the animal;
5. Site and circumstances of the incident; and

6. The animal’s performance on a generally accepted or otherwise reliable
temperament test.

B. Burden: It shall be the City’s burden to prove by a preponderance of the evidence
that the animal is a vicious animal.

C. Impoundment:

1. If any dog that has been declared a vicious animal pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall, when unprovoked, kill, wound or worry or
assist in killing, wounding or worrying any person or animal, the animal
control or police department is empowered to impound the vicious dog.

2. Any dog that has been declared vicious pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, and that dog thereafter when unprovoked, kills, wounds or
worries or assists in killing, wounding or worrying of any person or animal,
the animal control office or police department is empowered to impound
and, after the expiration of a five (5) day appeal period, exclusive of
weekend and holidays, may destroy the vicious dog. Prior to destroying
any dog under this chapter the City shall give notice to the owner that the
dog will be destroyed in no less than five (5) days exclusive of weekend and
holidays and that the decision to destroy the dog may be appealed to the
City manager. Appeals shall be made in writing and served upon the City
recorder.

5-1-18: Rabies

12

A. Reporting Bites: Any person having knowledge of any individual or animal
having been bitten by an animal of a species subject to rabies shall report the
occurrence of the bite immediately to an animal control officer.

B. Vaccination Required: The owner of a dog or cat four (4) months old or older shall
have said animal vaccinated against rabies within thirty (30) days after it reaches
said age or is acquired by its owner or moved into the City. Any person harboring
any such animal shall be responsible for said vaccination. A vaccinated animal

13

must be revaccinated against rabies every twenty four (24) months. This section
shall not apply to veterinarians or kennel operators temporarily maintaining on
their premises animals owned by others, or to an animal in the City for a period of
thirty (30) days or less, provided such animal is restrained and supervised as
required by this title.

. Certificate And Tag Requirements: When vaccinating any animal for rabies, the

veterinarian shall complete a certificate of rabies vaccination (in duplicate) which
includes the following information:

1. Owner’s name and address;

2. Description of animal (breed, sex, markings, age, name);
3. Date of vaccination;

4. Rabies vaccination tag number;

5. Type of rabies vaccine administered;

6. Manufacturer's serial number of vaccine.

A copy of the certificate shall be distributed to the owner and the original retained
by the veterinarian. The veterinarian and owner shall retain their copies of the
certificate for the interval between vaccinations specified in this section.
Additionally, a metal or durable plastic rabies vaccination tag, serially numbered
and bearing the same number as the certificate, and identifying the veterinarian,
shall be securely attached to the collar or harness of the animal. An animal not
wearing such a tag shall be deemed to be unvaccinated and may be impounded
and dealt with pursuant to this title.

. Reporting And Confinement: An animal that has rabies or shows signs of having

rabies, and every animal bitten by another animal showing symptoms of rabies or
that has been exposed to rabies shall be reported by the owner as set forth in
subsection A of this section and shall immediately be confined in a secure place by
the owner.

. Quarantine: Any animal of a species subject to rabies that bites a person or animal

or is suspected of having rabies may be seized and quarantined for observation for
a period of not less than ten (10) days by an animal control officer. The owner of
the animal shall bear the cost of confinement. An animal shelter authorized by the
City shall be the normal place of quarantine, but other arrangements, including

I.

confinement by the owner, may be made by the police department if the animal
had a current rabies vaccination at the time the bite was inflicted or if there are
other special circumstances justifying an exception. A person who has custody of
an animal under quarantine shall immediately notify the police department if the
animal shows any signs of sickness or abnormal behavior, or if the animal escapes
confinement. It is unlawful for any person who has custody of a quarantined
animal to fail or refuse to allow an animal control officer to make an inspection or
examination during the period of quarantine. If the animal dies within ten (10)
days from the date of the bite, the person having custody shall immediately notify
the department or laboratory to be examined for rabies. If, at the end of the ten
(10) day period, the director of animal control examines the animal and finds no
sign of rabies, the animal may be released to the owner or in the case of a stray, it
shall be disposed of as provided in this chapter.

Unvaccinated Bitten Or Exposed Animals: If an animal not vaccinated against
rabies but of a species subject to rabies is known to have been bitten or exposed by
a known rabid animal, then said bitten or exposed animal shall be immediately
destroyed.

. Vaccinated Bitten, Or Exposed Animals:

1. If the bitten or exposed animal has been vaccinated, the animal shall be
revaccinated within twenty four (24) hours and quarantined for a period of
thirty (30) days following revaccination; or

2. If the animal is not revaccinated within twenty four (24) hours, the animal
shall be isolated and quarantined under veterinary supervision for six (6)
months; and

3. The animal shall be destroyed if the owner does not comply with
subsections G1 or G2 of this section.

. Removal Of Animal: It is unlawful for any person to remove or release any

quarantined or confined animal from quarantine or confinement without written
permission of the police department.

Violation: Violation of this section is a class B misdemeanor.

5-1-18: Penalties

14

A. Except as otherwise stated herein, a violation of any provision of this chapter shall

be an infraction.

15

B. Notwithstanding subsection (A), a second violation of this chapter within three (3)
years of the first offense shall be a class C misdemeanor.

C. Notwithstanding subsections (A) and (B), a third violation of this chapter within
three (3) years of the first offense shall be a class B misdemeanor.

TITLE 3 BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS

CHAPTER 3-13 ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS
3-13-1 Definitions
As used in this chapter:

ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT: Any pet shop, grooming shop, animal auction, performing
animal exhibition, kennel, breeder, fancier, animal shelter, or the like. This term shall not
include veterinary medical facilities, licensed research facilities, facilities operated by
government agencies, or licensed animal dealers regulated by the USDA under the
provisions of US Public Laws 89-544, 91-579, 94-279, 99-198, and 101-624

ANIMAL UNDER RESTRAINT OR RESTRAINT: Has the same meaning as HCC § 5-1-
1.

3-13-2 Permits

A. No Operation Without Permit: No person shall operate an animal establishment
without obtaining a permit in compliance with this section.

B. Permit Period: The permit period shall run for one year from the date the City
approved the permit. Renewal applications for permits may be made within 60
days before the expiration date.

3-13-3 Issuance and Revocation

A. Revocation: The City may revoke any permit if the person holding the permit
refuses or fails to comply with this chapter, other applicable sections of City Code,
or any other law governing the protection and keeping of animals.

B. False Information: If an applicant is shown to have withheld or falsified any
material information on the application, including but not limited to failure to
disclose any previous denial or revocation of a permit, the City may refuse to issue
or may revoke a permit.

C. Inspections: It shall be a condition of issuance of any permit for an animal
establishment that an animal control officer shall be permitted to inspect any and
all animals and the premises where such animals are kept at any reasonable time
during normal business hours.

16

D. Removal of Animals: Where a permit is revoked for any cause or pending an

appeal of any such action, an animal control officer shall have power of entry on
the premises and into all areas where animals are being kept. Any animals found
to have been kept non-humanely may be immediately impounded and removed
by the animal control officer. A permit holder must resolve the cause for the
permit revocation and apply for reinstatement of the permit within 30 days, or all
animals on the premises must be transferred to another permit holder, to private
owners, relinquished to an animal shelter, or removed from the jurisdiction

3-13-4 Animal Establishments

In addition to obtaining the permit required by this chapter, animal establishments shall
comply with all zoning requirements and shall:

17

A. Be operated in such a manner as not to constitute a nuisance;

B.

Provide an isolation area for boarded animals that are sick or diseased, sufficiently
removed so as not to endanger the health of other animals;

Keep all animals under restraint;

. Provide for adequate shelter and confinement;

Obtain any required permits from the federal government, state of Utah, or Salt
Lake County;

. Comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws; and

. Not sell animals that are not weaned or so young or weak that their sale poses a

serious risk of death or inadequate development to them.

Notice of Pending Ordinance

The City hereby gives notice that it intends to make changes to land use regulations
related to animals and animal establishments in Title 10. While not inclusive, regulations
that may change are in Chapter 10-16 and Section 10-29-7. For additional information,
please call 801-446-5323 and ask for Michael Maloy, or email info@herriman.org.

