HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-13

AMENDING TITLE 10, SPECIFICALLY §10-12-16, OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE TO ALLOW
ARCHITECTURAL METAL PANELS, EXCEPTIONS TO SECONDARY EXTERIOR
BUILDING FINISH MATERIALS, CLARIFYING REQUIREMENTS FOR PEDESTRIAN
ACCESS, AND UPDATING SITE AMENITIES ON PROJECTS THAT ENCOMPASS FIVE (5)
OR MORE ACRES.

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to Utah State Code, may adopt an
ordinance to establish land development regulations (“Zoning”), which includes the adoption
or amendment of Zoning text or map; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
recommend any Zoning text amendments to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days
prior to the said public hearing to recommend any Zoning text amendments to the City
Council; and

WHEREAS, a notice of a Planning Commission public hearing on a Zoning text
amendment was posted in three (3) public locations and mailed to affected entities on March
10, 2024, for a meeting to be held on March 20, 2024, at 7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission voted 6-0 to recommend approval of the Zoning
text amendment in a public meeting held on March 20, 2024, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council
Chamber; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the City Council
to consider the Zoning text amendment and Planning Commission recommendation in a
public meeting; and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on June 12, 2024, at 7:00 p.m. to
discuss the Zoning text amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of
Herriman City to adopt the Zoning text amendment, which was recommended by the Planning
Commission and documented in City File number Z2022-075;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council for the approval to
amend the Herriman City Official Zoning Ordinance, Title 10, as described in Exhibit “A”.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2024-13, shall take immediate effect as soon as it
shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of
the City’s recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 12 day of June 2024.
HERRIMAN CITY
ATTEST: Mayo orin Palrher

ORGY tires)

Jaqkie\Nosfrom, City Recorder

13 S.
(ox cor POrae

aN

eee

HERRIMAN

Cy


Herriman City

ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2024-13

SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10-12-16 OF THE HERRIMAN CITY

CODE TO ALLOW ARCHITECTURAL METAL PANELS, EXCEPTIONS TO
SECONDARY EXTERIOR BUILDING FINISH MATERIALS, CLARIFYING

REQUIREMENTS FOR PEDESTRIAN ACCESS, AND UPDATING SITE AMENITIES ON
PROJECTS THAT ENCOMPASS FIVE OR MORE ACRES

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
Lorin Palmer x
Jared Henderson x
Teddy Hodges 4 x
Sherrie Ohrn Absent
Steven Shields xX xX

TOTALS 4

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 12" day of
June 2024, on a roll call vote as described above.


10-12-6: Development Standards

A. Generally: The use and development of land located in Commercial and Office Zones shall
conform to the standards set forth in this section and in section 10-12-7, chart 10-12 of this
chapter except as may be authorized by another provision of this title. (Ord. 2019-15, 6-
12-2019)

B. Alteration And Expansion Of Existing Facilities: When development is proposed to alter
or expand existing facilities and the proposed use, alteration, or expansion increases the
floor area and/or parking requirements by twenty five percent (25%), then the entire site
shall be brought into compliance with current City ordinances.

C. C-1 And C-2 Zones: Development in the C-1 and C-2 Zone shall conform to the following
design criteria requirements in addition to other applicable provisions of this title.

For-develeopments-over-five-S}-acres, dDirect pedestrian and bike paths shall be
provided on site to match those approved or built in adjacent developments.

2. Accessible parking spaces should be convenient to building entries.

3. Crosswalks and sidewalks shall be incorporated within the project to provide
pedestrian connections to the building. Crosswalks shall be so configured to be a
design feature of the development.

a. =he--heavy-paintedtnes-When pedestrian access traverses a commercial
use, a material or textural change is required to identify pedestrian paths
which may _include:pPavers, raised pedestrian paths, edges and other
methods of emphasizing pedestrian use. Bulb-outs and other pedestrian
design may be used to shorten walking distances across open pavement.
Sidewalks should be used when appropriate to connect parking lots with
building entries. Heavy painted lines shall be used in conjunction with
pedestrian paths where required by the Americans with Disability Act
(ADA).

4. Forcommercial development over (5 acre) ten) aeres, pedestrian amenities shall
be provided that allow for use and enjoyment of outdoor areas as a developmental
focal point or centralized amenity. These shewld shall include a minimum of one

( l) feature from each category below: ayn of pedestrian sealed -Hehting. three 3)

a. Landscaping — Raised landscape planters, shade trees, specimen trees,
potted plants, botanical exhibits, trellised planting walls, centralized green
gathering space.

b. Hardscaped — Pedestrian scaled lighting, seating walls. meandering
sidewalks, centralized hard-surfaced gathering space (decorative concrete,
pavers, a semi-permeable surface, or composite decking).

c. Aesthetics - Art features, water features. informational kiosks, shade
structures, tables, benches, drinking fountains, recreational amenities.

5. Within commercial shopping centers over ten (10) acres, transit stops with bus

pullouts on public streets shall be provided with convenient pedestrian access to
transit stops and outlying parking areas.


10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

Convenient and permanent bicycle parking shall be provided in locations that do
not interfere with pedestrian circulation. Bicycle parking facilities shall be
disbursed throughout larger sites and located in convenient and visible areas,
Direct pedestrian and bike paths shal! be provided on site to match those approved
or built in adjacent developments and existing or planned trails, parks, or open
space.

Support uses, such as trash enclosures, compactors, truck loading areas and outdoor
storage shall be oriented away from residential uses to the extent practical.
Drive-through lanes shall be located away from adjoining single-famih-and-multi-
family-residential developments. Speakers and menu boards shall be located so that
noise is not directed toward residential uses and shall incorporate a screen wall and
landscaping to mitigate noise. Menu board locations shall be shown on preliminary
and final site plans.

Service electrical system (SES) panels shall be recessed into the building elevation.
Access doors shall be screened with landscaping or a solid wall (with landscaping)
built of similar building materials and colors of the main development and equal to
or exceeding the height of the SES panel; or placed in back of the building if not
exposed to adjoining properties.

Proposed outdoor display and sales areas shall be located on final site plans,
including, but not limited to, propane sales, vending machines, amusements, and
seasonal sales. Their location should not displace required parking and pedestrian
or landscaping areas.

Wall elevations should terminate at a logical point such as a column or tower
element.

For all buildings, at least two (2) of the following elements should repeat
horizontally. Buildings with facades greater than one hundred feet (100') in length
showld shall include several a minimum of four (4) ef such elements, repeated at
appropriate intervals, either horizontally or vertically:. The use of the same element
repeated across the building’s facades shall count as only one (1) element:

a. Texture nee

b. Material change.

c. Architectural variety and interest through a change in plane, such as
building offsets, recesses, and projections. Wall projections, offsets, and

recesses shall be a minimum of 18 inches.

d. Window and door reveals, archways or projecting ribs.

e. Variations in roof pitches and planes

f. Entrance features which include canopies, recesses, porticos, or similar
features that are consistent with the character of the building and make the
entrance to the building easily visible. Entrance features shall be
proportionate to the entrance’s opening and shall be applied to all public
entrances.

Parapets for concealing flat roofs shall be designed to match the existing
architecture. EPDM, PVC, rubberized, rolled or liquid roofing membranes, or other


similar roofing systems shall not be used on pitched roofs or in areas that are visible
from the street or adjoining properties.

15. All building materials shall be high quality, durable. and provide a low-maintenance
finish. All facades, including back and side elevations, shall be constructed as
follows: with

a. Primary Materials - a minimum of sixty percent (60%) brick or stone that is
not part of the support structure or panelized. The brick or stone shall be a
natural color and shall not be painted.

b. Secondary Materials - The balance of exterior wall area shall consist, ata
minimum, of two (2) other materials including brick, stone, glass,
architectural metal panels, decorative block or concrete, stucco or simulated
stone panels.

1. Stucco products, if used, shall clearly be used in minimal amounts
and_as a contrast or accent to other building material and shall not
exceed 20% of any building facade.

2. Simulated stone panels shall be of cementitious construction.

3. Glazing systems shall be constructed of aluminum (anodized or
painted) or steel (painted or powder coated). Wood, aluminum
cladded, or vinyl glazing systems may be considered and are subject
to the standards outlined in subsection 15(c) of this chapter.

4. Architectural metal panels shall be painted, anodized. or sealed.
Profiles may include flat, boxed, or ribbed. Galvanized or raw metal
finishes and corrugated ‘““Wavy” profiles may be considered if the
standards outlined in subsection 15(c) of chapter are met.

i. Architectural panels shall be installed using a hidden
fastening system.

ii. Architectural panels shall meet all building code
requirements and carry a manufacturer's warranty.

c. The Planning Commission may grant an exception to allow for a
substitution of the building’s secondary materials wherein all the following
conditions are met:

1. The primary materials exceed 60% coverage on at least two (2)
elevations.

2. The_structure’s finish materials incorporate alternate design
characteristics that_are equivalent to or exceed those otherwise
achieved by the strict adherence to this section.

3. The granting of an exception will not adversely affect the
established character of the surrounding structure or development.

4. The granting of the exception shall be complementary or essential
to the overall design of the structure.

5. The substitute material shall be of high quality, and durability, to
provide a low maintenance finish.

d. The City Council may grant an exception to this criteria for a building that
is part of a large commercial project that has approved design guidelines
and is greater than forty thousand (40,000) square feet.


16.

17.

18.

Freestanding accessory structures, such as enclosed service/refuse areas and
covered parking, should be designed to be an integral part of the building
architecture. The forms, colors, textures and materials used on the main building
should be applied to all sides of these structures generally visible to the public.
Franchise architecture (building designs that are prototypical or identifiable with a
particular chain or corporation) shall be revised if the proposed building design
does not conform with the design standards set forth in this section. The applicant,
upon request, shall provide color pictures of other national tenant buildings
(nonprototype examples) that have been built in other cities and states.

All exterior lighting shall conform to standards set forth in this section . and _ Title
10 of the City’s land use development code. All exterior lighting shall comply with
approved site plan requirements and design guidelines.

D. OP Zone: Development in the OP Zone shall conform to the following design criteria
requirements in addition to other applicable provisions of this title.

l.

yi

G2

Buildings in predominantly residential areas shall have a pitched or gabled roof and
use material that is similar or alike types with surrounding existing residential uses.
All utility connections shall be designed to be similar with the architectural
elements of the site so as not to be exposed except where necessary. Pad mounted
transformers and/or meter box locations shall be included in the site plan with an
appropriate screening treatment.

Exterior lighting shall be provided as follows:

a. On any public road where street lighting is not in place, lighting shall be
provided at least equivalent to light produced by a one hundred (100) watt
incandescent bulb per each fifty feet (50') of frontage, or fraction thereof.
Lighting shall be provided, by a freestanding fixture, in the yard space
between the building and public street or attached to the wall of a building
which is not more than thirty feet (30') from the street property line.

b. Each parking area shall be illuminated for safety by installing lighting
fixtures which emit light at least equivalent to that of a one hundred (100)
watt incandescent bulb per one hundred feet (100') in all directions.

c. All lighting shall be shielded so as not to shine into surrounding residences
or skyward (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)

