HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-26

AMENDING TITLE 10 OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE TO REGULATE THE
OUTDOOR STORAGE OF RECREATIONAL AND ACCESSORY VEHICLES ON
PRIVATE PROPERTY.

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to Utah State Code, may adopt an ordinance
to establish land development regulations (“Zoning”), which includes the adoption or amendment
of Zoning text or map; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
recommend any Zoning text amendments to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days prior
to the said public hearing to recommend any Zoning text amendments to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, a notice of a Planning Commission public hearing on a Zoning text
amendment was posted in three (3) public locations and mailed to affected entities on August 4,
2023, for a meeting to be held on August 16, 2023, at 7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission voted 6-0 to recommend approval of the Zoning
text amendment in a public meeting held on August 16, 2023, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council
Chamber; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the City Council
to consider the Zoning text amendment and Planning Commission recommendation in a public
meeting; and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on October 9, 2024, at 7:00 p.m. to
discuss the Zoning text amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the Zoning text amendment, which was recommended by the Planning Commission
and documented in City File number Z2023-071;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council for the approval to
amend the Herriman City Official Zoning Ordinance, Title 10, as described in Exhibit “A”.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2024-26, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be published
or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 9" day of October 2024.

HERRIMAN CITY

fo to

ATTEST: MayopVorin Palmer

Ja¢ki trom, City Recorder
A
tala

x” .otate or
AS
CP cot Pra fe

> Y
~ AES
HERRIMAN

Cny

19¢
1999 3


Herriman City RY-Accessory Vehicle Storage Ordinance Amendments:

Defined: 12-2-1 (COPY/REFER in MOVE+40 10-29-223)

ACCESSORY VEHICLE: Any vehicle, or trailer which is not considered a passenger car, van, truck, or similar
nor which is typically counted against the required parking stalls for residential uses. Recreational
vehicles, and utility trailers are accessory vehicles. Personal UTV/ATV’s (i.e. side by sides, wave runners,
4-wheelers, motorcycles, and similar) are not accessory vehicles.

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:

A. Avehicle, camper, or trailer which is:

1. Built ona single chassis;

2. Four hundred (400) square feet-or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;

2.3.Can be driven or towed upon the highway without a special permit;

3.4. Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck (up to Class
3, or 14,000lbs. GVWR), and;-and

5. Not Designed primarily Act for use as a permanent dwelling, but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel-or seasonal use

4.6. Used for hauling livestock, and other recreational vehicles (boats, ATV's, and similar).

A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.

w

C. A Recreational Vehicle is not:

1. Utility trailers used for purposes other than recreating or hauling as listed above;
Individual ATV or UTV’s;

3. Large passenger vans used as a primary transportation mode, but which may include
features which provides for recreating; or

4.4. Any other heavy duty commercially-used vehicle or trailer.

10-29-22: Accessory Vehicle Storage:

Purpose: As Recreational and Accessory Vehicle ownership continues to be desirable for Herriman City
residents, it is the intent of this ordinance to continue allowing that to occur, while also protecting
neighborhoods and the community from unsafe-arnd-unsightly accessory vehicle storage. It also intends
to promote a desirable approach to accessory vehicle storage on residentially zoned lots.

Accessory vehicle storage shall be permitted in residential (R), agricultural (A), and forest recreation (FR)
zones as follows:

A._Outdoor Accessory Vehicle storage shall not be allowed on any lot zoned as Agricultural (A),
Residential (R), or Forest Recreation (FR) except when:


1. Aa permanent home is located on the lot, or a lot is contiguous with a permanent home
under one common owner, or

2._;erother primary use is established on the property, or

3. as specified below in (BE)(1).

B. Recreational Vehicles shall not be occupied when located on any property, except:

1. When being used as a temporary shelter (travel trailer, camper, etc) to allow a property
owner to construct a single family home on their vacant lot for a period of no longer
than one year;

a. The property owner obtain a land use permit from the City allowing
temporary occupancy of the Recreational Vehicle on the property.

b. The property owner must have evidence of having obtained a legal building
permit for the home from the City on site.

c. The Recreational Vehicle must be located on the property so as not to
interfere with traffic or sidewalk circulation and may attach to any utility
including water, sewer, gas or electrical with the required permits.

d. The Recreational Vehicle and site must be maintained ina manner as not to
create excessive amounts of trash, smells and unnecessary debris.

e. Complies with Chapter 4-6 of the City ordinance pertaining to Noise Control

C. No storage of material is permitted in any Recreational Vehicle located on a lot zoned as
Agricultural (A), Residential (R), or Forest Recreation (FR). Storage of materials includes
hazardous materials, flammable materials, or a large number of items that interfere with the
safe operation of the Recreational Vehicle.

All AV’s stored on any property described above shall be maintained in good working condition.

E. For AV’s with wheels, proper blocking which ensures secure storage on the site, especially on
sloped storage areas is required.

F. Number of allowed Accessory Vehicles including Recreational Vehicles and utility trailers for each
of the following lots zoned as Agricultural (A), Residential (R), or Forest Recreation (FR);

1. Accessory Vehicles located entirely within a garage, or accessory structure do not count
towards the total allowed on the property.

2. Up to 0.25 Acres (0 — 10,890 Square Feet)

a. Total of four (4)

3. 0.25 Acres to 1 acre (10,891 — 43,560 Square Feet)

a. Total of six (6)

4. 1-5 acres (43,561 — 217,800Sq. Feet)

a. Total of eight (8)

5. 5 acrest

a. Total of ten (10)

6, Agricultural Vehicles and machinery used for active agricultural activities on the property
where they are stored, and which is larger than 0.5 acres do not count as Accessory
Vehicles.

7.__Exception to exceed the total number of allowed AV’s on a property:

a. An applicant may exceed the total number of allowed AV’s ona property by a
maximum of:

1. One (1) for lots 0.25 acres and less


2. Two (2) for lots 0.25 — 1 acres
3. Three (3) for lots 1—5 acres
4. Four (4) for lots greater than 5 acres
b. A conditional use for AV storage must be applied for which includes obtaining
a Home Occupation for AV storage.
c. When an applicant exceeds the maximum number of AV’s allowed ona
property the following improvements shall be provided:
1. All storage of AV’s must be on an improved surface of one of the
following:
a. Concrete
b. Asphalt
c. Gravel, when installed at a minimum 4” deep and which
includes a 4” wide and 4” tall concrete boundary.
i._If gravel is installed the applicant shall maintain the area
weed free.
2. Screening from adjacent properties:
a. A minimum 6’ solid fence shall be installed around the entire
property where the AV storage is located.
3. All AV’s shall be parked no closer than three (3) feet from any adjacent
property in the sides and rear portions of the lot.
4. _AILAV’s shall be maintained in good condition; no storing of inoperable,
junk vehicles is permitted.
5. No AV shall be occupied as living quarters while stored on the lot.
G. Permitted Vehicle Storage Location and Access:

1. Construction of Accessory Vehicles is not permitted in any (A) Agricultural, (R)
Residential, or (FR) Forest Recreational.
a. Repair/remodeling of personally owned AV’s is permitted on site.
2. Access to location:
a. Any new driveway shall be reviewed by City staff to ensure adequate access to
the storage site.

1. When an additional driveway or widening of the primary driveway is
necessary (see Option A below), the applicant shall provide a drive
approach within the public right of way.

a. The widened, or additional, drive approach shall be paved with
concrete as approved by the City when within public right of
way.

b. A permit from the City is required to perform any work in the
public right of way.


OPTION A

b. A driveway taper approach is also allowed (see Option B below) when
driveway access is provided at no less than a forty five degree (45°) angle from
the public sidewalk, or other point as determined appropriate by staff. The
remnant area in the front yard setback shall be landscaped with a minimum
ground cover, provided that this option is not allowed if the remnant
landscaped area is less than forty five (45) square feet.

OPTION B

77 gs thant a8 oq Br
Pont pard setback

fre Woes than 45°
erye tom barb, a!
fiewah Ore wis
aggroact must be
wadened

4.—When Accessory Vehicle storage is provided in a required side yard as established by the
underlying zone, no structural covering of the vehicle is permitted to extend into the
required side yard.
3. The parking area for Accessory Vehicles shall be kept in good condition, be regularly
maintained, and shall be constructed as to not cause drainage onto adjacent properties.
4. Driveway access shall be provided to the accessory parking from the front lot line to the
rear yard setback with materials provided for in (c) below:
a. Ifthe side yard is fenced, driveway access shall only be required to the front
yard setback.
b. If access to the accessory storage are comes from an approved driveway that
is not the main access for the home, an improved surface shall be provided for
within 20’ of any public road, sidewalk, trail, or right of way as provided for in

(c) below:


c. A hard surface material which is limited to concrete, heavy duty driveway
pavers, or asphalt. Other materials such as a gravel or crushed concrete
surface, may also be utilized provided:

1. The gravel or crushed concrete is at least four inches (4") deep,
compacted, and is sized between 1/2 inch to 1 1/2 inches;
a. A poured concrete or masonry border with a minimum four inch
(4") width and four inch (4") depth is constructed on all exterior
sides of the surface with masonry being limited to either brick,
stone or precast concrete;
2. Road-base or other similar materials shall not be substituted for
compactible gravel or crushed concrete; and
3. The surface material is properly maintained, kept free of weeds or other
vegetation and is kept fully contained within the allowed area.
4. Exception: If the street to the lot is not paved, then the material of the
access to the accessory vehicle parking area may match, but not be
inferior to, the material of the street.

H. Time of Compliance
1. In order to provide Herriman residents time to comply with City ordinance and who do
not currently comply with City ordinance:
a. No formal action by the City shall be pursued or allowed for a period of one
year from the date of approval by the City Council (October 10, 2025) except
in cases where a code enforcement case has already been established.


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2024-26
SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL AMENDING TITLE 10 OF
HERRIMAN CITY CODE TO REGULATE THE OUTDOOR STORAGE OF
RECREATIONAL AND ACCESSORY VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER

Lorin Palmer

Jared Henderson X

Teddy Hodges

Sherrie Ohrn x

x) x | x] OM] OX

Steven Shields

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 9" day of
October 2024, on a roll call vote as described above.

