HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-19

AMENDING TITLE 10 OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE TO CLARIFY STREET
CONNECTIVITY REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS AND
REDUCE EXPIRATION TERMS FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to Utah State Code, may adopt an ordinance
to establish land development regulations (“Zoning”), which includes the adoption or amendment
of Zoning text or map; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission (the “Commission’’)
shall prepare and recommend any Zoning text amendments to the City Council (the “Council’’);
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Commission
shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days prior to the said
public hearing to recommend any Zoning text amendments to the Council; and

WHEREAS, a notice of a Planning Commission public hearing on a Zoning text
amendment was posted in three (3) public locations and mailed to affected entities on June 7,2024,
for a meeting to be held on June 19, 2024, at 7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Commission voted 6-0 to recommend approval of the Zoning text
amendment in a public meeting held on June 19, 2024, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council Chamber;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the Council to
consider the Zoning text amendment and the Commission’s recommendation in a public meeting;
and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on July 10, 2024, at 7:00 p.m. to
discuss the Zoning text amendment; and

WHEREAS, the Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman City
to adopt the Zoning text amendment, which was recommended by the Planning Commission and
documented in City File number Z2024-069;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council for approval to amend
the Herriman City Land Development Code, Title 10, as described in Exhibit “A” of this
Ordinance.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2024-19, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s
recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 10" day of July 2024.

HERRIMAN CITY

a)

ATTEST: Lorin Palmef


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2024-19
SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10 OF THE HERRIMAN CITY CODE
TO CLARIFY STREET CONNECTIVITY REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISION
APPLICATIONS AND REDUCE EXPIRATION TERMS FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
Lorin Palmer x
Jared Henderson xX
Teddy Hodges x
Sherrie Ohrn X Xx
Steven Shields xX xX
TOTALS 5

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 10" day of
July 2024, on a roll call vote as described above.

Exhibit “A”

The following text comprises excerpts from various sections of the Herriman City Code to provide context
Jor the ordinance. Only the text marked by an underline or strike-through shall be amended by the codifier.

Herriman City Code
Title 10 Land Development Code

10-5-15: Preliminary Plats

D. Procedure: A preliminary plat application shall be reviewed and processed as provided in this
subsection and as required by applicable provisions of sections 10-5- 4, "General
Requirements", 10-5-5, "Public Hearings And Meetings", and 10-5-6, "General Decision-
Making Standards", of this chapter.

1. An application for a preliminary plat shall be submitted to the Community Development
Director in accordance with the provisions of this section along with any application fee
established by the City's schedule of fees. A list of all items comprising a complete
preliminary subdivision land use application is published on the City's website.

2. The application shall include at least the following information:

a. The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant and the applicant's agent,
if any;

b. Existing conditions inventory as required by chapter 17 of this title;

c. An electronic PDF-format copy of the proposed preliminary plat, drawn as required
by City standards and specifications, showing on each sheet of the set, the name of
the subdivision, scale, sheet number, preparation date, and north arrow; including:

1) The boundary lines and legal description of the property to be subdivided, with
all dimensions shown;

2) The location of existing permanent buildings and structures on or within fifty
feet (50') of the proposed subdivision;

3) The layout of streets, showing location, widths and other dimensions of proposed
streets (designated by actual or proposed names and numbers), crosswalks, alleys,
easements, and streetlights;

4) The layout, numbers, and typical dimensions of lots;

5) Land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved for public use or set aside
for use of property owners in the subdivision;

6) Minimum building setback lines;

7) Easements proposed for water, sewer, drainage, utility lines, and other purposes;

8) The location of the subdivision as it relates to any associated lot owned by the
applicant, including a sketch of the prospective future street system on any
unplatted portion of the property, and the street system proposed within the
subdivision in accordance with the future street system of the surrounding area
and the General Plan;

9) The boundary lines of adjacent unsubdivided land within one hundred feet (100')
of the property proposed for subdivision, showing ownership and property
monuments;

10) A vicinity map of the subdivision, drawn at a scale of 500 feet to the inch, showing
all lots and streets in the subdivision, and all abutting streets with street names;

11) The names and addresses of the applicant, the engineer or surveyor of the
subdivision, and the owners of land immediately adjoining the subdivision;

12) A contour map at intervals of at least two feet (2'), showing all unusual
topographic features with verification by a qualified engineer or land surveyor;

13) The location of existing sanitary sewers, storm drains, subdrains, culinary and
secondary water supply mains, and culverts and other utilities within the property
or within one hundred feet (100') thereof, indicating pipe sizes, grades, and
manholes;

14) The location, widths, and other dimensions of proposed streets, alleys, easements,
parks, and other open spaces and lots with the size and buildable area of each
proposed lot in square footage and proper labeling of spaces to be dedicated to the
public;

15) The location, principal dimension, and names of all existing and recorded streets,
alleys, and easements, both within the proposed subdivision and within one
hundred feet (100') of the boundary thereof, showing whether recorded or claimed
by usage;

16) The location and dimensions to the nearest existing benchmark or monument, and
section line;

17) The location and principal dimensions of all water courses, public utilities, and
other features and existing structures on the land adjacent to the proposed
subdivision, including railroads, power lines, and topography;

18) The location of existing bridges, culverts, surface or subsurface drainage channels,
utilities, buildings or other structures, pumping stations, or appurtenances, within
the subdivision or within two hundred feet (200') thereof, and all known wells or
springs, and location of any 100-year floodplain as delineated by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency;

19) Proposed off-site and on-site culinary and secondary water facilities, sanitary
sewers, storm drainage facilities, and fire hydrants;

20) A plan showing how the applicant proposes to handle stormwater drainage for an
event with a 10-year return interval, as determined by the City Engineer;

21) A plan for providing street lighting in the subdivision;

22) Plans showing any required landscaping and/or parkstrip tree planting;

23) A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan prepared by a registered civil
engineer; if the site requires substantial cutting, clearing, grading, or other
earthmoving operations in the construction of improvements if required by the
City Engineer; and

d. The following documents:

1) Certification of the accuracy of the preliminary plat by the landowner (the owner's
affidavit);

2) Certification of the accuracy of the preliminary plat and any traverse to permanent
survey monuments by a land surveyor registered to practice in the State of Utah;

3) Copies of any agreements with adjacent property owners relevant to the proposed
subdivision;

3)4) If the preliminary plat does not directly connect to an existing public street, the
application must provide (i) the approximate location of the connection points
between the preliminary plat and the existing public street, (ii) the plan (existing
contours and roadway width) to connect to an existing public street, and (iii)
written authorization from the adjoining landowners needed to connect to the
public street that a public road is planned at the approximate locations in
subsection (i) and will be built to City standards and dedicated to the City within
the timeframe allowed in Paragraph J.


4)5) A geologic hazards, geotechnical, and/or soils report prepared by a qualified
engineer based upon adequate test borings or excavations in accordance with City
standards and specifications, if required by the City Engineer;

56) Evidence that all utilities and services will be available for the subdivision;

-6)7) A traffic report prepared by a qualified traffic engineer, if required by the City

Engineer;

8) Evidence of compliance with other applicable Federal, State and local laws and
regulations, if requested by the Community Development Director;

7)9) If the planned development is proposed to be developed in phases, the
preliminary site plan shall also show phase boundaries. Each phase shall be of
such size, composition, and arrangement so that construction, marketing, and
operation of each phase is feasible as a unit. independent of any subsequent
phases; and

$}10) A copy of proposed protective covenants, if subsurface drains or common
open space are to be located within the subdivision.

The Community Development Director shall review the preliminary subdivision

application for completeness. After an application is determined to be complete, the

Community Development Director shall:

a. Distribute copies of the application to City department heads and any government
departments or agencies deemed appropriate; and

b. Ifacanal is located within the proposed subdivision, provide notice to the canal owner
or associated canal operator and delay approval of the subdivision as provided in Utah
Code section 10-9a-603(2)(d) and (e).

Upon receipt of a preliminary plat application, each department head shall:

a. Review the application for compliance with applicable approval requirements for a
preliminary plat which are administered by the department;

b. Identify modifications needed to comply with preliminary plat requirements; and

c. No later than fifteen (15) business days after a preliminary subdivision application is
submitted, submit any comments and recommendations to the Community
Development Director.

The Community Development Director:

a. Shall meet with department heads to review the preliminary plat application and any
comments received from department heads, and other applicable departments or
agencies;

b. May meet with the applicant or applicant's agent to discuss and review the proposed
application;

c. Shall review the preliminary plat application for compliance with applicable approval
requirements, including comments received from the department heads, other
departments, or agencies;

d. Shall prepare a staff report and recommendation that the preliminary plat be approved,
approved with conditions, or disapproved based on compliance with approval
requirements. The staff report shall include written findings and recommendations
that show the basis for the Community Development Director's recommendation.

e. No later than fifteen (15) business days after a preliminary subdivision application is
submitted, shall provide the applicant with written comments.

The Planning Commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the proposed

preliminary plat. Notice of the public hearing and any public meeting shall be provided

in accordance with section 10-5-5 of this chapter and applicable State law. At the time


and place specified, the Planning Commission shall hold the public hearing and review

the preliminary plat for compliance with applicable approval requirements.

a. Before approval or disapproval of the preliminary plat, the Planning Commission may
reasonably require the applicant to provide additional information, data, or studies as
may be needed to determine compliance with approval requirements, which shall be
specific and include citations to all applicable City ordinances, standards, or
specifications that require modifications to the plans, and shall be logged in an index
of requested modifications or additions.

b. Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission may approve, approve
subject to conditions, or disapprove the preliminary plat based on written findings and
recommendations regarding compliance with approval requirements.

E. Approval Standards: All preliminary plat applications shall be reviewed for compliance with
the submittal requirements set forth in this section and applicable provisions of this title, this
Code, Construction Codes, and City standards and specifications.

F. Appeal: Any person adversely affected by a final decision of the Planning Commission
regarding a preliminary plat may appeal that decision to the Appeal Authority as provided in
section 10-5-24 of this chapter.

G. Effect Of Approval: Subject to the expiration provisions of subsection J of this section,
approval of a preliminary plat shall authorize the applicant to submit an application for
approval of a final plat.

1. Approval of a preliminary plat may not be deemed approval of any other procedure or
permit required by this title or this Code.

2. A final plat application which is timely submitted shall be reviewed in accordance with
the provisions of this title existing on the date when a complete preliminary plat
application was submitted.

H. Amendment: The procedure for amending an approved preliminary plat shall be the same as
for considering an original preliminary plat as set forth in this section.

I. Revocation: A preliminary plat approval may be revoked as provided in subsection 10-7-7F
of this title.

J. Expiration: A preliminary plat shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall expire and have no
further force or effect, if a final plat is not recorded within twe one (21) years after approval
of the preliminary plat.An-extension-of the-expiration-date-maybe-approved-as-providedin
subsection-10-5—4M_-of this-chapter Upon written request by the applicant and for good cause
shown, the Planning Commission may grant up to a one (1) year extension.

10-28-13: Arrangement of Streets

The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall provide for the continuation of the existing
streets in adjoining areas and shall provide access to unsubdivided adjoining areas insofar as such
continuation or access is necessary as reasonably determined by the Planning Commission.
Before final plat approval, all planned Nnew streets shall connect with existing public streets.


