HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-02

AMENDMING THE HERRIMAN CITY TITLE 10 LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE TO
COMPLY WITH UPDATED SUBDIVISION REVIEW AND PUBLIC NOTICE
REQUIREMENTS IN THE 2023 UTAH STATE MUNICIPAL LAND USE,
DEVELOPMENT, AND MANAGEMENT ACT

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to Utah State Code, may adopt an ordinance
to establish land development regulations (“Zoning”), which includes the adoption or amendment
of Zoning text or map; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
recommend any Zoning text amendments to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days prior
to the said public hearing to recommend any Zoning text amendments to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, a notice of a Planning Commission public hearing on a Zoning text
amendment was posted in three (3) public locations and mailed to affected entities on December
8, 2023, for a meeting to be held on December 20, 2023, at 7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission voted 6-0 to recommend approval of the Zoning
text amendment in a public meeting held on December 20, 2023, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council
Chamber; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the City Council
to consider the Zoning text amendment and Planning Commission recommendation in a public
meeting; and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on January 24, 2024, at 7:00 p.m. to
discuss the Zoning text amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the Zoning text amendment, which was recommended by the Planning Commission
and documented in City File number Z2023-148;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council for the approval to
amend the Herriman City Official Zoning Ordinance, Title 10, as described in Exhibit “A.”

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2024-02, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be published
or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 24" day of January 2024.

HERRIMAN CITY
Cy
Lao}
ATTEST: M orin Palmer

f, orate OXY
9° 0 e, 4
C cork Tae -
> %&
| a
HERRIMAN

Ss


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2024-02
SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE APPROVING AN AMENDMENT TO THE HERRIMAN
CITY LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE TO COMPLY WITH UPDATED SUBDIVISION
REVIEW AND PUBLIC NOTICE REQUIREMENTS IN THE 2023 UTAH STATE
MUNICIPAL LAND USE, DEVELOPMENT, AND MANAGEMENT ACT

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER

Lorin Palmer

Jared Henderson

Teddy Hodges x

~ | KK] Ke]

Sherrie Ohrn xX

Steven Shields Absent

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 24" day of
January 2024, on a roll call vote as described above.

Exhibit A
Revisions to Herriman City’s Official Zoning Ordinance

Title 10 Land Development Code

10-5-5: Public Hearings and Meetings

Any public hearing or meeting required under this title shall be scheduled and held subject to the
requirements of this section and applicable State law. If a conflict arises between a provision of
this section and State law, State law shall prevail.

A.

Scheduling a Public Hearing or Meeting: An application requiring a public hearing or
public meeting shall be scheduled within a reasonable time following receipt of a complete
application. The amount of time between receipt of an application and holding a public
hearing or public meeting shall be considered in light of:

1. The complexity of the application submitted,

2. The number of other applications received which require a public hearing or

meeting,

3. Available staff resources, and

4. Applicable public notice requirements.
Required Notice of Public Hearing or Public Meeting: Public notice shall comply with
applicable requirements of Utah Code section 52-4-202. Notice of a public hearing shall
be provided at least ten (10) calendar days before the hearing date. Notice of a public
meeting shall be provided at least twenty four (24) hours before the meeting. A public
hearing or meeting notice shall include:

1. A statement summarizing the substance of the application;

2. The date, time, and place of the public hearing or public meeting; and

3. The place where the application may be inspected by the public.
Posting Notice On-Site: In addition to public notice of a hearing or public meeting as
provided in this section, the Community Development Director shall cause on-site notice
to be posted for any application to amend the zoning map. Any error or failure by the City
to post on-site notice shall not affect the legal adequacy or sufficiency of notice except as
required by State law.

. Applicant Notice:

1. For each land use application, the Community Development Director shall:

a. Notify the applicant of the date, time, and place of each public hearing and
public meeting to consider the application;

b. Provide to each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the applicant
or the pending application at least three (3) business days before the public
hearing, erpublic meeting, or staff-level review meeting, as applicable; and

c. Within a reasonable time, or as required by this Title or State law, notify the
applicant of any final action on a pending application.

2. Ifthe Community Development Director fails to comply with the requirements of
subsection Dla or D1b of this section, or both, an applicant may waive the failure
so that the application may stay on the public hearing or public meeting agenda and
be considered as if the requirements had been met.

Challenge of Notice: If notice required by this section is not challenged in accordance with
applicable appeal procedures within thirty (30) days after the meeting or action for which
notice was given, the notice shall be considered adequate and proper.

. Examination of Application: Upon reasonable request during normal business hours, any

person may examine an application and materials submitted in support of or in opposition
to an application in accordance with the Government Records Access and Management

Act, Utah Code section 63G-2-101, et seq. Copies of such materials shall be made available
at reasonable cost in accordance with the City’s current fee schedule and applicable law.

G. Application Amendments: Except_as provided for in this Title or State law, an An
application shall be considered as submitted when the application is deemed complete.
Subsequent amendments to an application submitted by an applicant shatt-may not be
considered by the decision-making body or official unless the amendment is requested by
the City.

H. Public Hearing and Public Meeting Procedures: An application shall be considered
pursuant to rules of order and procedure established by the decision-making body or
official for the conduct of such meetings.

I. Withdrawal Of Application: An applicant may withdraw an application at any time before
notice of the application has been posted or published. Application fees shall not be
refundable.

J. Record of Public Hearing or Public Meeting: Written minutes and a recording shall be kept
of all public hearings and public meetings as required by Utah Code section 52-4-203 and
shall be available for public review and access in accordance with the Government Records
and Access Management Act, Utah Code section 63G-2-101, et seq. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-
2017)

10-5-6: General Decision-Making Standards

The decision-making standards set forth in this section are based on the fundamental distinction
between legislative and administrative actions: legislative proceedings establish law and public
policy, which is applicable generally, while administrative proceedings apply such law and policy
to factually distinct, individual circumstances.

A. Legislative Actions:

1. A land use regulation may be enacted only by an ordinance adopted by the City
Council, except that a land use regulation which imposes a fee may be enacted by
an ordinance or resolution. A land use regulation shall be consistent with the
purposes set forth in the Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,
Utah Code section 10-9a-101.

2. The following types of applications are hereby declared to be legislative:

a. General Plan adoption or amendment, and

b. Regulatory applications:

a. Zoning map adoption or amendment,
b. Zoning text adoption or amendment, ard
c. Temporary regulations, and:

c. Development agreements.

3. Decisions regarding a legislative application shall be based on the “reasonably
debatable” standard, as follows:

a. The City Council shal! determine what action, in its judgment, will
reasonably promote the public interest, conserve the value of property,
avoid incompatible development, encourage appropriate use and
development, and promote the general welfare.

b. In making such determination, the City Council may, among other things,
consider the following:


a. Testimony presented at a public hearing or meeting; and
b. Personal knowledge of various conditions and activities bearing on
the issue at hand, including, but not limited to, the location of
businesses, schools, roads and traffic conditions; growth in
population and housing; the capacity of utilities; the zoning of
surrounding property; and the effect that a particular legislative
proposal may have on such conditions and activities, the values of
other properties, and upon the general orderly development of the
City.
c. The City Council should state on the record the basis for its decision.
B. Administrative Actions:
1. The following types of applications are hereby declared to be administrative:
Permitted uses,
Conditional uses,
Site plans,
Sign permits,
Temporary use permits,
Preliminary plats,
Final plats,
Subdivision plat amendments,
Property line adjustments,
Condominiums,
Nonconformities,
Variances,
. Zoning compliance review,
Administrative interpretations, and
Appeal of administrative decisions,
2. In making a decision on an administrative application, the decision-making body
or official shall apply the plain language of applicable land use regulations.

a. Ifa land use regulation does not plainly restrict a land use application, the
decision-making body or official shall interpret and apply the land use
regulation to favor the land use application.

b. A land use decision of a decision-making body or official is an
administrative act, even if the decision is made by the City Council.

3. Decisions regarding administrative applications shall be based on the “substantial
evidence” standard and shall include at least the following:

a. A statement of the standards for approval applicable to the application;

b. A summary of evidence presented to the decision-making body or official;

c. A statement of findings of fact or other factors considered, including the
basis upon which such facts were determined and specific references to
applicable standards set forth in this title or other provisions of this Code;
and a statement of approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval, as
the case may be. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-17)

OBB rA TO Sse me ao Tf

10-5-15.1 Pre-application Meeting (optional)


A. Purpose: A _ pre-application meeting is optional and may be requested with the City
Planner by any person seeking to subdivide land in the City. The purpose of a _pre-
application meeting is to review a concept plan and give initial feedback. The city highly
recommends a _preapplication concept plan review meeting prior to submitting a
preliminary subdivision plat application. A pre-application concept plan meeting is
optional and does not count toward the maximum number of review cycles for
subdivision land use applications.

B. Authority: No decisions may be made at a pre-application meeting. A pre-application
meeting will include planning staff and other agency representatives as appropriate.

C. Initiation: Any person seeking to subdivide land may request a pre-application meeting
by sending a written request, including by email, to the planning department and
providing a brief description of the proposed subdivision.

D. Procedure: No later than fifteen (15) business days after receiving a request for a pre-
application meeting, the municipality shall schedule the meeting. At or before the
meeting, the City shall provide or make available:

1. Copies of applicable land use regulations, including this Chapter:

2. A complete list of standards required for the proposed project;

3. Preliminary and final application checklists prepared by the City:

4. Feedback on the concept plan; and

5. Any other information the City determines may be helpful.

10-5-15: Preliminary Plats

A. Purpose: A preliminary plat is required for any subdivision of land. Approval of the
preliminary plat is required before an application for a final plat may be submitted. The
purpose of a preliminary plat is to review and approve details and drawings of the
subdivision layout, lots, streets, easements, public improvements, utility facilities, and
similar requirements.

B. Authority: The Planning Commission is designated as the administrative land use
authority authorized to review and approve preliminary plats as set forth in this section.
No _ member _of the City Council may serve on the Planning Commission or
administrative land use authority.

C. Initiation: An application for a preliminary plat may be submitted by the owner of
property proposed to be subdivided as provided in this section. If applicable, An-an
agent shall provide an affidavit of authorization.

D. Procedure: A preliminary plat application shall be reviewed and processed as provided
in this subsection and as required by applicable provisions of sections 10-5-4, “General
Requirements”, 10-5-5, “Public Hearings And Meetings”, and 10-5-6, “General

Decision-Making Standards”, of this chapter.

1. An application for a preliminary plat shall be submitted to the Community
Development Director in accordance with the provisions of this section along
with any application fee established by the City’s schedule of fees. A list of all
items comprising a complete preliminary subdivision land use application is
published on the City’s website.

2. The application shall include at least the following information:

a. The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant’s agent, if any;

b. Existing conditions inventory as required by chapter 17 of this title;

c. An electronic copy of Fhe-the proposed preliminary plat, in portable
document format (PDF), drawn as required by City standards and
specifications, showing on each sheet of the set, the name of the
subdivision, scale, sheet number, preparation date, and north arrow;
including:

(1) The boundary lines and legal description of the property to be
subdivided, with all dimensions shown;

(2) The location of existing permanent buildings and structures on
or within fifty feet (50’) of the proposed subdivision;

(3) The layout of streets, showing location, widths and other
dimensions of proposed streets (designated by actual or
proposed names and numbers), crosswalks, alleys, easements,
and streetlights;

(4) The layout, numbers, and typical dimensions of lots;

(5) Land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved for
public use or set aside for use of property owners in the
subdivision;

(6) Minimum building setback lines;

(7) Easements proposed for water, sewer, drainage, utility lines,
and other purposes;

(8) The location of the subdivision as it relates to any associated
lot owned by the applicant, including a sketch of the
prospective future street system on any unplatted portion of the
property, and the street system proposed within the subdivision
in accordance with the future street system of the surrounding
area and the General Plan;

(9) The boundary lines of adjacent unsubdivided land within one
hundred feet (100°) of the property proposed for subdivision,
showing ownership and property monuments;

(10)

(11)

(12)

(13)

(14)

(15)

(16)

(17)

(18)

(19)

(20)

A vicinity map of the subdivision, drawn at a scale of 500 feet
to the inch, showing all lots and streets in the subdivision, and
all abutting streets with street names;

The names and addresses of the applicant, the engineer or
surveyor of the subdivision, and the owners of land
immediately adjoining the subdivision;

A contour map at intervals of at least two feet (2’), showing all
unusual topographic features with verification by a qualified
engineer or land surveyor;

The location of existing sanitary sewers, storm drains,
subdrains, culinary and secondary water supply mains, and
culverts and other utilities within the property or within one
hundred feet (100’) thereof, indicating pipe sizes, grades, and
manholes;

The location, widths, and other dimensions of proposed streets,
alleys, easements, parks, and other open spaces and lots with
the size and buildable area of each proposed lot in square
footage and proper labeling of spaces to be dedicated to the
public;

The location, principal dimension, and names of all existing
and recorded streets, alleys, and easements, both within the
proposed subdivision and within one hundred feet (100’) of the
boundary thereof, showing whether recorded or claimed by
usage;

The location and dimensions to the nearest existing bench mark
or monument, and section line;

The location and principal dimensions of all water courses,
public utilities, and other features and existing structures on the
land adjacent to the proposed subdivision, including railroads,
power lines, and topography;

The location of existing bridges, culverts, surface or subsurface
drainage channels, utilities, buildings or other structures,
pumping stations, or appurtenances, within the subdivision or
within two hundred feet (200’) thereof, and all known wells or
springs, and location of any 100-year floodplain as delineated
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency;

Proposed off-site and on-site culinary and secondary water
facilities, sanitary sewers, storm drainage facilities, and fire
hydrants;

A plan showing how the applicant proposes to handle
stormwater drainage for an event with a 10-year return interval,
as determined by the City Engineer;

(21) A plan for providing street lighting in the subdivision;

(22) Plans showing any required landscaping and/or parkstrip tree
planting;

(23) A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan prepared by a
registered civil engineer; if the site requires substantial cutting,
clearing, grading, or other earthmoving operations in the
construction of improvements if required by the City Engineer;
and

d. The following documents:

(1) Certification of the accuracy of the preliminary plat by the
landowner (the owner’s affidavit);

(2) Certification of the accuracy of the preliminary plat and any
traverse to permanent survey monuments by a land surveyor
registered to practice in the State of Utah;

(3) Copies of any agreements with adjacent property owners
relevant to the proposed subdivision;

(4) A geologic hazards, geotechnical, and/or soils report prepared
by a qualified engineer based upon adequate test borings or
excavations in accordance with City standards and
specifications, if required by the City Engineer;

(5) Evidence that all utilities and services will be available for the
subdivision;

(6) A traffic report prepared by a qualified traffic engineer, if
required by the City Engineer;

(7) Evidence of compliance with other applicable Federal, State
and local laws and regulations, if requested by the Community
Development Director; and

(8) A copy of proposed protective covenants, if subsurface drains
or common open space are to be located within the subdivision.

3. The Community Development Director shall review the preliminary
subdivision application for completeness. After an application is determined to
be complete, the Community Development Director shall:

a. Distribute copies of the application to City department heads and any
government departments or agencies deemed appropriate; and

b. Ifa canal is located within the proposed subdivision, provide notice to
the canal owner or associated canal operator and delay approval of the
subdivision as provided in Utah Code section 10-9a-603(2)(d) and (e).

4. Upon receipt of a preliminary plat application, each department head shall:

a.

Review the application for compliance with applicable approval
requirements for a preliminary plat which are administered by the
department;

. Identify modifications needed to comply with preliminary plat

requirements; and

. No later than fifteen (15) business days after a preliminary subdivision

application is submitted, Submit—submit any comments and
recommendations to the Community Development-Director.

5. The Community Development Director:

a.

Shall meet with department heads to review the preliminary plat
application and any comments received from department heads, and
other applicable departments or agencies;

May meet with the applicant or applicant’s agent to discuss and review
the proposed application;

. Shall review the preliminary plat application for compliance with

applicable approval requirements, including comments received from
the department heads, other departments, or agencies; and

Shall prepare a staff report and recommendation that the preliminary
plat be approved, approved with conditions, or disapproved based on
compliance with approval requirements. The staff report shall include
written findings and recommendations that show the basis for the
Community Development-Director’s recommendation; and

. No later than fifteen (15) business days after a preliminary subdivision

application is submitted, shall provide the applicant with written
comments.

6. The Planning Commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
proposed preliminary plat. Notice of the public hearing and any public meeting
shall be provided in accordance with section 10-5-5 of this chapter and
applicable State law. At the time and place specified, the Planning Commission
shall hold the public hearing and review the preliminary plat for compliance
with applicable approval requirements.

a.

Before approval or disapproval of the preliminary plat, the Planning
Commission may reasonably require the applicant to provide additional
information, data, or studies as may be needed to determine compliance
with approval requirements, which shall be specific and include
citations to all applicable City ordinances, standards, or specifications
that require modifications to the plans, and shall be logged in an index
of requested modifications or additions.

Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission may approve,
approve subject to conditions, or disapprove the preliminary plat based

on written findings and recommendations regarding compliance with
approval requirements.

E. Approval Standards: All preliminary plat applications shall be reviewed for compliance
with the submittal requirements set forth in this section and applicable provisions of this
title, this Code, Construction Codes, and City standards and specifications.

F. Appeal: Any person adversely affected by a final decision of the Planning Commission
regarding a preliminary plat may appeal that decision to the Appeal Authority as
provided in section 10-5-24 of this chapter.

G. Effect Of Approval: Subject to the expiration provisions of subsection J of this section,
approval of a preliminary plat shall authorize the applicant to submit an application for
approval of a final plat.

1. Approval of a preliminary plat shaH-may not be deemed approval of any other
procedure or permit required by this title or this Code.

2. A final plat application which is timely submitted shall be reviewed in
accordance with the provisions of this title existing on the date when a complete
preliminary plat application was submitted.

H. Amendment: The procedure for amending an approved preliminary plat shall be the
same as for considering an original preliminary plat as set forth in this section.

I. Revocation: A preliminary plat approval may be revoked as provided in subsection 10-
7-7F of this title.

J. Expiration: A preliminary plat shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall expire and have no
further force or effect, if a final plat is not recorded within two (2) years after approval
of the preliminary plat. An extension of the expiration date may be approved as provided
in subsection 10-5-4M of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)

10-5-16: Final Plats

A. Purpose: An application for approval of a final plat may be submitted following
preliminary plat approval. Approval of a final plat is required before a final plat may be
recorded. The purpose of a final plat is to ensure the subdivision and related public
improvements conform to the requirements of the approved preliminary plat for the
subject property and applicable provisions of this title and other regulations before the
plat is recorded in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder.

B. Authority: City staff are authorized to review and approve final plats as set forth in this
section.

C. Initiation: An application for approval of a final plat may be submitted by the owner of
property proposed to be subdivided as provided in this section. An-If_ applicable, an
agent shall provide an affidavit of authorization. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)

D. Procedure: A final plat application shall be reviewed and processed as provided in this
subsection and as required by applicable provisions of sections 10-5-4, “General
Requirements”, 10-5-5, “Public Hearings And Meetings”, and 10-5-6, “General
Decision-Making Standards”, of this chapter.

1. An application for a final plat shall be submitted to the Community
Development Director in accordance with the provisions of this section along
with any application fee established by the City’s schedule of fees. A list of all
items comprising a complete final subdivision land use application is published
on the City’s website.

2. The City may not require more than four (4) review cycles. “Review cycle”
means the occurrence of:

a. The applicant’s submittal of a complete subdivision land use
application;

b. The City’s review of that subdivision land use application:

c. The City’s response to that subdivision land use application, in
accordance with this section: and

d. The applicant’s reply to the City’s response that addresses each of the
municipality’s required modifications or requests for additional
information.

3. A review cycle is not complete unless the applicant has responded to each
request from the City. The applicant shall provide written explanation that is
comprehensive and specific, including citations to standards and ordinances for
the design and an index of requested revisions or additions for each required
correction.

4. Ifan applicant makes a material change to a plan, the City may restart the review
process at the first review cycle with respect to the portion of the plans affected
by the material change.


5. The application shall include at least the following information: (Ord. 2018-40,
12-12- 2018)

a. A complete set of construction drawings that conform to City standards
and specifications, and the final engineering review checklist as posted
on the City website;

b. A proposed final plat that conforms to City standards and specifications
and includes the following:

(1) The subdivision name, which shall be distinct from any
previously approved or recorded plat;

(2) A north arrow, scale of the drawing, and the date;

(3) A correct metes and bounds description of all property included
within the plat;

(4) The boundaries, courses, and dimensions of all property to be
subdivided, including any property intended to be used as a
street or for another public use, and whether any such area is
reserved or proposed for dedication for a public purpose;

(5) Each lot address, the lot or unit reference, block or building
reference, street or site address, street name and coordinate
address, acreage or square footage of all parcels, units, or lots,
and the dimensions of the blocks and lots intended for sale;

(6) Every existing and proposed right-of-way and easement,
including those for underground facilities as defined in Utah
Code section 54-8a-2 and for any other utility facilities;

(7) True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines
or official monument, which are accurately described on the
plat and shown by appropriate symbols;

(8) Street right-of-way lines and centerline data, together with
street widths, names, and coordinate number;

(9) The accurate location of all monuments, including all United
States, State, County, or other official monuments;

(10) The dedication to the public of all streets and highways
included in the proposed subdivision, except approved private
streets;

(11) Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purposes
indicated thereon, and of any area to be reserved by deed or
covenant for common use by all property owners within the
subdivision; and

(12) The parent parcel identification number, as shown on the
records of the Salt Lake County Recorder;

c. The following certificates, acknowledgments, and descriptions shown
on the title sheet of the plat:

(1) A correct metes and bounds description of all property included
within the plat;

(2) The scale of the plat and number of sheets;

(3) A registered professional land surveyor’s signed certificate of
survey, together with a statement that the surveyor:

(A) Holds a license in accordance with Utah Code section
58-22-101, et seq.;

(B) Has completed a survey of the property described on
the plat in accordance with Utah Code section 17-23-
17;

(C) Has verified all measurements; and
(D) Has placed monuments as represented on the plat;
(4) The signature from all owners of record and the owner’s
certificate of dedication of all streets, roads, rights-of-way, or

other lots or parcels intended for the use and benefit of the
general public;

(5) Mortgagee or trustee signature and consent to record, if
applicable;

(6) A notary public’s acknowledgment of the signature of each
mortgagee, ifany, and property owner signing the plat;

(7) Signature block for approval by the owners and operators of
underground and utility facilities;

(8) Signature block for approval by the County Health
Department;

(9) Signature block for approval by the City Attorney;
(10) Signature block for approval by the City Engineer;

(11) Signature block for approval by the Planning Commission, as
evidenced by the signature of the Planning Commission Chair;
(Ord. 2017-54, 12-13- 2017)

(12) Signature block for approval by the City, as evidenced by the
signature of the Planning Director and attested by the City
Recorder; and

(13) A block for the Salt Lake County Recorder in the lower right
hand corner of the drawing. (Ord. 2018-40, 12-12-2018)

6. After an final subdivision application is determined to be complete, the
Community Development Director shall distribute copies of the application to
City department heads.

7. Upon receipt of a final plat application, each department head shall:

a. Review the application for compliance with applicable approval
requirements for the final plat which are administered by the
department; and

b. Identify modifications needed to comply with final plat requirements,
which shall be specific and include citations to all applicable City
ordinances, standards, or specifications that require modifications to the
plans, and shall be logged in an index of requested modifications or
additions; and

c. No later than twenty (20) business days after the day on which an
applicant submits a final subdivision plat application, Submit-submit
any comments and recommendations to the Community Development
Director.

d. Notwithstanding section 2 above and subsection 7.c, the review cycle
limitation and timeline for the City to respond to an application do not
apply to subdivision applications within geological hazard areas.

8. The Community Development Director:

a. Shall meet, as needed, with department heads to review the final plat
application and any comments received from department heads and
other applicable departments or agencies;

b. May meet with the applicant or applicant’s agent to discuss and review
the proposed application;

c. Shall review the final plat application for compliance with applicable
approval requirements, including comments received from the
department heads, and other departments or agencies; and

d. No later than twenty (20) business days after the day on which an
applicant submits a final subdivision plat application, Skat-shall review
the final plat to determine whether the plat complies with applicable
approval requirements. If the final plat is not acceptable, the
Community Development Director shall notify the applicant and
specify the respects in which it is deficient. If the Community
Development Director determines the final plat complies with
applicable approval requirements the Community Development Director
shall advise the applicant to prepare a final plat for recording.

9. If.an applicant does not submit a revised plan within twenty (20) business days
after the City requires a modification or correction, the City shall have an


additional twenty (20) business days to respond to the plans.

10. Following notice to the applicant from the Community Development
Director or designee, the final plat shall be prepared for recording as follows:

a. The applicant shall submit to the Community Development
Department:

(1) Three (3) hard copies and one electronic PDF copy of a
finalized paper plat;

(2) Two (2) complete sets of finalized construction drawings for
public improvements and utility services;

(3) A title report prepared and dated not more than thirty (30)
days before the proposed recordation date of the final plat;

(4) Approval letters from utility companies verifying availability
of utility services;

(5) Proposed deed restrictions or covenants, conditions, and
restrictions; and

(6) A tax clearance evidencing that all taxes, interest, and
penalties, if any, have been paid.

b. Upon receipt of the applicant’s submittal:

(1) City staff shall review the plat for compliance with the City’s
subdivision plat format requirements;

(2) The City Engineer shall perform a final check of plat
compliance with applicable approval requirements;

(3) The City Engineer shall prepare a cost estimate of public
improvements and utility services to be included in an
improvement assurance and warranty agreement;

(4) The City Attorney shall review the title report and any
covenants, conditions, or restrictions for compliance with
applicable approval requirements; and

(5) Upon completion of the foregoing, a meeting may be scheduled
with the applicant to address any outstanding issues prior to
preparation of a mylar copy of the plat.

c. Following resolution of any outstanding issues, the applicant shall
submit the following to the City Recorder:

(1) A mylar copy of the final plat with signatures of all property
owners, mortgagees, and lienholders;

(2) An executed improvement assurance and warranty agreement
for any infrastructure improvements and warranty of all public

infrastructure improvements;

(3) Payment of applicable City fees, including but not limited to
impact fees;

(4) Evidence that outstanding professional service costs, if any,
have been paid; and

(5) An electronic version of the final plat and construction
drawings prepared in AutoCAD and pdf (or other digital format
acceptable to the City).

d. After the mylar copy of the final plat has been submitted, the City
Recorder shall:

(1) Internally route the final plat to obtain required City signatures;

(2) Internally route the improvement assurance and warranty
agreement to the City Attorney who shall verify the agreement
for correctness and obtain necessary City signatures; and

(3) Advise the applicant when the final plat is ready to be
recorded.

11, After receiving notice from the City Recorder, the applicant shall record
the plat with the Salt Lake County Recorder and shall thereafter provide written
evidence of such recordation to the Community Development Director.

E. Approval Standards: All final plat applications shall be reviewed for compliance with
the submittal requirements set forth in subsection D2 of this section and applicable
provisions of this title, this Code, Construction Codes, and City standards and
specifications.

F. Appeal:

1. Any person adversely affected by a final decision regarding a final plat may
appeal that decision to the Appeal Authority as provided in section 10-5-24 of
this chapter.

2. If, on the fourth or final review. the City fails to respond within 20 business
days, the City shall, upon request of the property owner, and within 10 business
days after the day on which the request is received:

a. fora dispute arising from the subdivision improvement plans, assemble
an appeal panel in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-508(5)(d) et seq.
to review_and approve or deny the final revised set of plans. Unless
otherwise agreed by the applicant and the municipality, the panel shall
consist of the following three experts:

(1) one licensed engineer, designated by the City:

(2) one licensed engineer, designated by the land use applicant; and


H.

|

(3) one licensed engineer, agreed upon and designated by the two
designated engineers as appointed in subsection (a) | and 2.

b. A member of the panel assembled by the City under Subsection (a) may
not have an interest in the application that is the subject of the appeal.

c. The applicant shall pay:

(1) 50% of the cost of the panel: and

(2) the City’s published appeal fee.: or

d. fora dispute arising from the subdivision ordinance review, advise the
applicant, in writing, of the deficiency in the application and of the right
to appeal the determination to a designated appeal authority.

Effect Of Approval: Subject to the expiration provisions of subsection J of this section,
approval of a final plat shall authorize the applicant to record the plat. Approval of a
final plat shal may not be deemed approval of any other procedure or permit required
by this title or this Code.

Amendment: A recorded final plat may be amended as provided in section 10-5-17 of
this chapter.

. Revocation: A recorded final plat approval may not be revoked.

J. Expiration: A final plat application shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall expire and

have no further force or effect, if the plat is not recorded within sixty (60) days after the
City Recorder notifies the applicant that the plat is ready to be recorded as provided in
subsection D7 of this section. An applicant’s failure to record a plat within such time
period renders the plat voidable.

. Phasing: Phasing of a subdivision plat shaH-may not be permitted and all subdivision

improvements shall be completed as one project as required by applicable approval
requirements. (Ord. 2017- 54, 12-13-2017)

10-5-17: Subdivision Plat Amendments

A. Purpose: The purpose of this section is to set forth procedures and standards to amend
or vacate some or all of a subdivision plat except as provided in section 10-5-18,
“Property Line Adjustments”, of this chapter.

B. Authority: The Planning Commission is authorized to amend or vacate a plat except when
such action is required to be taken by the City Council as set forth in this section.

C. Initiation: An application to amend or vacate a plat may be submitted by the owner of
property subject to the proposed plat amendment or vacation as provided in this section.
An agent of a property owner shall provide an affidavit of authorization.

D. Procedure: A subdivision plat amendment or vacation application shall be reviewed and
processed as provided in this subsection and as required by applicable provisions of
sections 10-5-4, “General Requirements”, 10-5-5, “Public Hearings And Meetings”, and
10-5-6, “General Decisions-Making Standards”, of this chapter.

1. An application to amend or vacate a plat shall be submitted to the Community
Development Director in accordance with the provisions of this section along
with any application fee established by the City’s schedule of fees.

2. The application shall include at least the following information:

a. The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant’s agent, if any;

b. The name and address of each owner of record of the land contained in
the entire plat or in that portion of the plat described in the application;

c. The signature of each owner identified in subsection D2b of this section
who consents to the plat amendment or vacation;

d. An amended plat that complies with the requirements for final plat as
set forth in section 10-5-16 of this chapter and applicable provisions of
Utah Code section 10-9a-603;

e. Ifthe petition proposes to vacate some or all of a public street, right-of-
way, or easement (including public utility easements), the application
shall also include:

(1) The name and address of each owner of record of land that is:

(A) Adjacent to the public street, right-of-way, or
easement; or

(B) Accessed exclusively by or within three hundred feet
(300’) of the public street, right-of-way, or easement;
and

(2) The signature of each owner under subsection D2e(1) of this
section who consents to the vacation.

3. No later than fifteen (15) business days after the City’s receipt of a complete
subdivision plat amendment application—After-an-appHeation is determinedto
be—complete, the Community Development Director shall determine the
completeness of the application and distribute copies of the application to City
department heads and any governmental departments or agencies deemed
appropriate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this timeline does not apply to
subdivision plat amendment applications for which a legislative action is
required under this Title.

4. Upon receipt of a final plat application, each department head shall:

a. Review the application for compliance with applicable approval
requirements for the amended or vacated plat which are administered
by the department; and

b. Identify modifications needed to comply with approval requirements;
and

c. No later than fifteen (15) business days after the City’s receipt of a
complete subdivision plat amendment application, submit-Submit any
comments and recommendations to the Community Development
Director.

5. The Community Development Director:

a. Shall meet, as needed, with department heads to review the amended or
vacated plat application and any comments received from department
heads and other applicable departments or agencies;

b. May meet with the applicant or applicant’s agent to discuss and review
the application;

c. Shall review the amended or vacated plat application for compliance
with applicable approval requirements, including comments received
from the department heads, and other departments or agencies; and

d. No later than fifteen (15) business days after the City’s receipt of a
complete subdivision plat amendment application, shall-ShaH prepare
and send to the applicant a staff report and recommendation to the
Planning Commission or City Council, as the case may be, that the
application be approved, approved with conditions, or disapproved
based on compliance with approval requirements. The staff report shall
include written findings and recommendations that show the basis for
the Community Development Director’s recommendation.

6. A public hearing shall be held on the proposed plat amendment or vacation
within forty-five (45) days after the day on which a complete application is
filed if:

a. Any owner within the plat notifies the Community Development
Director of the owner’s objection in writing within ten (10) days of

notification; or

b. (1) A public hearing is required before the Planning Commission
because all of the owners in the subdivision have not signed
the revised plat; or

(2) A public hearing is required before the City Council because the
application includes a request to vacate some or all of a street,
right-of- way, or easement.

c. Notice of the public hearing and any public meeting shall be provided
in accordance with section 10-5-5 of this chapter, Utah Code section
Sections 10-9a-207 and 10-9a-208, and shall include notice to each
affected entity that provides a service to an owner of record of the
portion of the plat proposed to be vacated or amended.

d. A public hearing is not required if:
(1) The subdivider seeks to:

(A) Join two (2) or more of the subdivider’s contiguous
fee-owned lots;

(B) Subdivide one or more of the subdivider’s fee-owned
lots, if the subdivision will not result in a violation of
any applicable approval requirement;

(C) Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots if the fee owners
of each of the adjoining lots join in the application,
regardless of whether the lots are located in the same
subdivision;

(D) On a lot owned by the subdivider, adjust an internal lot
restriction imposed by the City; or

(E) Alter the plat in a manner that does not change existing
boundaries or other attributes of lots within the
subdivision that are not:

(a) Owned by the applicant; or

(6) Designated as a common area; and

(2) Notice has been given to adjacent property owners in
accordance with applicable requirements of section 10-5-5 of
this chapter.

7. Following any required public hearing, the Planning Commission or City
Council, as the case may be, may approve, approve subject to conditions, or
disapprove the application to amend or vacate the plat based upon written
findings regarding compliance with applicable approval requirements set forth

in subsection E of this section.

a. Following approval of an amended plat, the applicant shall prepare a
final plat for recording as set forth in subsection 10-5-16D6 of this
chapter.

b. After receiving notice from the City Recorder, the applicant shall record
the plat with the Salt Lake County Recorder and shall thereafter provide
evidence of such recordation to the Community Development Director.

E. Approval Requirements:

1. All applications for an amended or vacated plat shall be reviewed for
compliance with the submittal requirements set forth in subsection D2 of this
section and applicable provisions of this title, this Code, Construction Codes,
and City standards and specifications.

2. The Planning Commission may approve the amendment or vacation of a plat
that does not include the vacation of some or all of a public street, right-of-way,
or easement by signing a plat showing the amendment or vacation, if the
Council finds:

a. There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and

b. No public street, right-of-way, or easement has been vacated or
amended.

3. The City Council may approve the amendment or vacation of a subdivision plat
that includes the vacation of some or all of a public street, right-of-way, or
easement, by adopting an ordinance approving the amendment or vacation and
recording the ordinance in the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office, or by
signing a plat showing the amendment or vacation, if the City Council finds:

a. Good cause exists for the amendment or vacation; and

b. Neither the public interest nor any person will be materially injured by
the amendment or vacation.

F. Modification: A lot designated as common or community area on a recorded subdivision
plat may be modified in size, without approval of an amended subdivision plat, in
accordance with applicable conditions and requirements set forth in Utah Code section
Section 10-9a-606.

G. Name Change: The name of a recorded subdivision may be changed by recording an
amended plat making that change as provided in this subsection G.

1. The surveyor preparing the amended plat shall certify that the surveyor:

a. Holds a license in accordance with the Utah Professional Engineers and
Professional Land Surveyors Licensing Act, as set forth in Utah Code
section Section 58- 22-101 et seq.;

b. Has completed a survey of the property described on the plat in
accordance with Utah Code seetien Section 17-23-17 and has verified
all measurements; and

c. Has placed monuments as represented on the plat.
2. An owner of land may not submit for recording an amended plat that gives the

subdivision described in the amended plat the same name as a subdivision in a
plat already recorded in the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office.

3. Except as provided in this subsection, the recording of a declaration or other
document that purports to change the name of a recorded plat is void.

H. Correcting Errors: Minor typographical or clerical errors in a subdivision plat may be
corrected as provided in Utah Code sectien Section 57-3-106(9).

I. Appeal: Any person adversely affected by a final decision regarding amendment or
vacation of asubdivision plat may appeal that decision to the District Court as provided
in Utah Code section Section 10-9a-801.

J. Effect Of Approval: Approval of an amended plat shall authorize recording of the plat
subject to applicable requirements of this title.

1. Approval of an amended plat shaH-may not be deemed approval of any other
procedure or permit required by this title or this Code.

2. An action of the City Council vacating some or all of a public street, right-of-
way, or easement that has been dedicated to public use operates to the extent to
which it is vacated, upon the effective date of the recorded plat or vacating
ordinance, as arevocation of the acceptance and relinquishment of the City’s
fee in the vacated street, right-of-way, or easement. Such relinquishment shal
may not impair any right-of-way or easement of any lot owner or the franchise
rights of any public utility.

K. Amendment: The procedure to further amend or vacate an approved amended or vacated
plat shall be as set forth in this section.

L. Revocation: A recorded amended plat or ordinance of vacation may not be revoked.

M. Expiration: An amended plat shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall expire and have no
further force or effect, if the plat is not recorded within sixty (60) days after the City
Recorder notifies the applicant that the plat is ready to be recorded as provided in
subsection D7b of this section. An applicant’s failure to record a plat within such time
period renders the plat voidable.

N. Extension Of Time: Notwithstanding subsection M of this section, an applicant may
request an extension of time to record the amended plat as provided in subsection 10-5-
4M of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)

10-5-18: Property Line Adjustments

A. Purpose: The purpose of this section is to set forth methods by which a property line
may be adjusted other than by amending a plat as set forth in section 10-5-17 of this
chapter. The intent of this section is to comply with applicable provisions of Utah law
regarding lot line adjustments, parcel boundary adjustments, boundary line agreements,
exchanges of title, and other similar property boundary line adjustments, as set forth in
Utah Code seetiern Sections 10-9a-103 and Utah-Code-section 57-1-45.

B. Authority:

C. Initiation:

. The Community Development Director is authorized to review and approve

property line adjustments as provided in subsection D of this section and as
required by applicable provisions of sections 10-5-4, “General Requirements”,
10-5-5, “Public Hearings And Meetings”, and 10-5-6, “General Decisions-
Making Standards”, of this chapter.

. Property owners may, without City approval, adjust the property line of a lot or

parcel as provided in subsections E, F, G, and H of this section.

. An application for approval of an exchange of title may be submitted in

accordance with subsection D of this section by the owners of property proposed
to be adjusted, or the owner’s agents. An agent of a property owner shall provide
an affidavit of authorization.

. No application to the City is required to adjust the property line of a lot or parcel

if such boundary line adjustment complies with applicable provisions set forth
in subsection E, F, G, or H of this section.

D. Exchange Of Title: Pursuant to Utah Code seetien Section 10-9a-608, the owners of
record of adjacent lots or parcels that are described by either a metes and bounds
description or a recorded plat may exchange title to portions of those lots or parcels if
the exchange is approved by the Community Development Director in accordance with
the provisions of this subsection.

1. The exchange of title process set forth in this subsection D is required for any

proposed boundary adjustment adjusting the lot line between:
a. Two (2) adjoining lots within the same subdivision;
b. Two (2) adjoining lots in adjacent subdivisions; or

c. A lot within a subdivision and an adjoining parcel located outside such
subdivision.

2. The exchange of title process may be used, but is not required, for any proposed

boundary adjustment adjusting the boundary line between two (2) adjoining {ots
or parcels not located within a previously recorded subdivision plat.

3. The property owners, or the owners’ agents, shall submit an application for
approval of an exchange of title to the Community Development Director in
accordance with the provisions of this subsection D along with any applicable
fee established by the City’s schedule of fees. The application shall include at
least the following information:

a. A survey, prepared by a licensed land surveyor or professional
engineer, accurately drawn to scale and certified, showing:

(1) The affected lots or parcels;
(2) The location of existing buildings on the lots or parcels;
(3) The proposed location of new lot or parcel lines;

(4) Any driveways, utilities and infrastructure improvements
existing on the lots or parcels;

(5) All easements of record, including public utility easements
and private easements existing on the lots or parcels;

(6) Frontage calculations for the lots or parcels before and after
the exchange of title;

(7) The size of the lots or parcels (by acreage and square footage)
before and after the exchange of title; and

(8) The property identification numbers for the lots or parcels.
b. The subdivision name, if any, where the lots or parcels are located.

4. After an application is determined to be complete, the Community Development
Director shall review the application pursuant to the standards set forth in
subsection D5 of this section.

a. No notice or hearing requirements are required for exchange of title
applications and approvals.

b. Any conditions of approval shall be limited to conditions needed to
conform the exchange of title to applicable approval standards.

5. An exchange of title shall be approved if the exchange:
a. Complies with the provisions of this subsection; and

b. Will not:

1) Create a new parcel, lot, dwelling or housing unit, or remnant
p g g
piece of land that did not previously exist; or

(2) Violate any provision of this title.

6. If an exchange of title is approved by the Community Development Director, a

notice of approval acceptable to the City shall be recorded in the Salt Lake
County Recorder’s Office. A sample notice of approval may be obtained from
the City. The notice of approval shall:

a. Be executed by each owner of record included in the exchange and by
the Community Development Director;

b. Contain an acknowledgment for each owner of record executing the
notice as required by the Utah Recognition of Acknowledgments Act
set forth in Utah Code section Section 57-2a-1, et seq.; and

c. Recite the legal descriptions of the original lots or parcels and the legal
descriptions of the revised lots or parcels created by the exchange of
title.

7. A notice of approval recorded in accordance with this section does not act as a
conveyance of title to real property. If an exchange of title is approved by the
Community Development Director, the property owners shall also record with
the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office a document of conveyance reflecting
the approved title exchange.

8. Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Community Development
Director regarding an exchange of title may appeal that decision as provided in
section 10-5-24 of this chapter.

9. The procedures for amending an approved exchange of title shall be the same
as for considering an original exchange of title as set forth in this subsection D.

10. An exchange of title undertaken as provided in this subsection D shalt may not
expire but may be superseded by a subsequent exchange of title or other
property line adjustment.

E. Parcel Boundary Adjustments: The owners of record of adjacent parcels that are not
located within a recorded subdivision plat may adjust their mutual boundary in
accordance with the provisions of this subsection E.

1. Pursuant to Utah Code seetien Section 10-9a-523, a parcel boundary adjustment
is not subject to the review of the City if:

a. No additional parcel is created, and

b. Each adjusted property is unsubdivided land.

2. The owners of record of adjacent parcels desiring to adjust their mutual
boundary line may execute such adjustment by quitclaim deed or by a boundary
line agreement as described in Utah Code seetion Section 57-1-45.

a. Any such deed or agreement shall be recorded in the Salt Lake County
Recorder’s Office.

b. If desired, though not required, owners of record of adjacent parcels
may also use the exchange of title process set forth in subsection D of
this section to adjust their mutual parcel boundary line.

F. Disputed Property Line Adjustments: When a boundary dispute exists between the
owners of record of adjacent properties, the dispute may be resolved by recording a
boundary line agreement between the property owners designating the boundary line
between their properties in accordance with the provisions of this subsection.

1. The disputed property line adjustment process set forth in this subsection F is
permitted for any disputed boundary line between two (2) adjacent properties.

2. Pursuant to Utah Code seetion Section | 0-9a-524, resolution of a boundary line
dispute by aboundary line agreement is not subject to City review if:

a. No additional parcel, lot, dwelling or housing unit, or remnant is
created and

b. The adjustment does not violate any provision of this title.

3. The owners of record of adjacent properties with a boundary dispute may
execute a boundary line agreement designating the agreed upon boundary line
in accordance with the requirements of Utah Code seetien Section 57-1-45.

a. Any such agreement must be recorded in the Salt Lake County
Recorder’s Office.

b. If desired, though not required, owners of record of adjacent properties
with a boundary dispute may also use the exchange of title process set
forth in subsection D of this section to adjust their mutual boundary line.

4. If properly executed and acknowledged as required under Utah Code section
Section 57-1-45, an agreement between property owners designating the
boundary line between their properties, when recorded in the Salt Lake County
Recorder’s Office, shall act as a quitclaim deed and convey all of each party’s
right, title, interest, and estate in property outside the agreed boundary line that
had been the subject of the boundary dispute that led to the boundary line
agreement.

G. Common Area Parcels On A Plat: A lot or parcel designated as common or community
area on a recorded subdivision plat may be modified in size or location as provided in
Utah Code seetien Section 10-9a-606.

H. Joinder Of Lots And Parcels:
1. A property owner of record may execute and record a document that:

a. Revises the legal description of more than one contiguous unsubdivided
parcel of property into one legal description encompassing all such
parcels of property, if the joinder does not violate any provision of this
title; or

b. Joins a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of property that
has not been subdivided, if the joinder does not violate any provision of
this title.

2. The joinder of lots and parcels under subsection Hla of this section is not
subject to City review or approval.

3. This subsection H does not apply to combining lots within a subdivision or
within adjacent subdivisions. Any joinder of subdivided lots shall require a plat
amendment in accordance with section 10-5-17 of this chapter.

I. Violations: A property line adjustment that violates any provision of this title may result
in enforcement action as provided in chapter 7 of this title, including withholding of
building or other permits, certificates, or other forms of authorization pertaining to land
or improvements until the violation is corrected. This provision shall apply regardless
of whether the original or current owner is responsible for the violation.

J. No Effect On Other Land Interests: A property line adjustment, including approval of an
exchange of title, has no effect on any easement or other interest in land shown on a
recorded plat or other recorded document. Such easements may be modified or vacated
only in accordance with applicable law. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)

10-5-19: Condominiums

A. Purpose: The purpose of this section is to set forth procedures and standards to approve
a condominium plat whereby two (2) or more condominium units, whether contained in
existing or proposed residential, commercial, or industrial buildings or structures or
otherwise, are separately offered or proposed to be offered for sale in accordance with
the Utah Condominium Ownership Act as set forth in Utah Code seetton Section 57-8-
1, et seq.

1. A condominium project shall be considered to be a subdivision and a
condominium plat or supplement thereto shall be considered to be a subdivision
plat as provided in Utah Code seetien Section 57-8-35.

2. No condominium project or condominium plat, declaration, or other material
required for a condominium under this title or Utah Code section Section 57-8-
35 shall be recorded unless approved as provided in this section.

B. Authority: The Planning Commission is authorized to review and approve
condominiums as set forth in this section.

C. Initiation: An application fora condominium may be submitted by the owner of property
where the condominium will be located as provided in this section. An agent shall
provide an affidavit of authorization.

D. Procedure: A condominium application shall be reviewed and processed as provided in
this subsection and as required by applicable provisions of sections 10-5-4, “General
Requirements”, 10-5-5, “Public Hearings And Meetings”, and 10-5-6, “General
Decisions- Making Standards”, of this chapter.

1. An application for a condominium shall be submitted to the Community
Development Director along with any applicable fee established by the City’s
schedule of fees.

2. The application shall include at least the following information:

a. The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant’s agent, if any;

b. A proposed condominium plat, drawn as required by City standards and
specifications, which includes the information required by section 10-
5-16, “Final Plats”, of this chapter and Utah Code section Section 57-8-
13 regarding condominium plats, showing on each sheet of the set, the
name of the condominium, scale, sheet number, and north arrow;

c. Proposed condominium declaration and bylaws; and

d. An application for approval of a site plan as set forth in section 10-5-12
of this chapter, if not already approved for the project. The site plan
shall be considered and processed as provided in section 10-5-12 of this
chapter.

3. After an application is determined to be complete, the Community Development
Director shall distribute copies of the application to City department heads and
any government departments or agencies deemed appropriate.

4. Upon receipt of a condominium application, each department head shall:

a. Review the application for compliance with applicable approval
requirements for a condominium which are administered by the
department; and

b. Identify modifications needed to comply with condominium
requirements; and

c. Submit any comments and recommendations to the Community
Development Director.

5. The Community Development Director:

a. Shall meet with department heads to review the condominium
application and any comments received from department heads and
other applicable departments or agencies;

b. May meet with the applicant or applicant’s agent to discuss and review
the proposed application;

c. Shall review the condominium application for compliance with
applicable approval requirements, including comments received from
the department heads, other departments, or agencies; and

d. Shall prepare a staff report and recommendation that the condominium
be approved, approved with conditions, or disapproved based on
compliance with approval requirements. The staff report shall include
written findings and recommendations that show the basis for the
Community Development Director’s recommendation.

6. The Planning Commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
proposed condominium. Notice of the public hearing and any public meeting
shall be provided in accordance with section 10-5-5 of this chapter and
applicable State law. At the time and place specified, the Planning Commission
shall hold the public hearing and review the condominium for compliance with
applicable approval requirements.

a. Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall approve,
approve subject to conditions, or disapprove the condominium based on
written findings and recommendations regarding compliance with
approval requirements.

b. Before acting on a condominium application, the Planning Commission
may reasonably require the applicant to provide additional information,
data, or studies as may be needed to determine compliance with
approval requirements.

E.

H.

I

Approval Standards: All condominium applications shall be reviewed for compliance
with the submittal requirements set forth in this section and applicable provisions of this
title, this Code, Construction Codes, and City standards and specifications.

. Appeal: Any person adversely affected by a final decision of the Planning Commission

regarding a condominium may appeal that decision to the Appeal Authority as provided
in section 10-5-24 of this chapter.

. Effect Of Approval: Subject to the expiration provisions of subsection J of this section,

approval or conditional approval of a condominium shall authorize the applicant to
obtain final plat approval as provided in section 10-5-16 of this chapter. Such approval
shall be required before the condominium plat or related condominium documents may
be recorded.

1. Approval of a condominium skhaH-may not be deemed approval of any other
procedure or permit required by this title or this Code.

2. A final plat application for a condominium which is timely submitted shall be
reviewed in accordance with the provisions of this title existing on the date when
a complete condominium application was submitted.

Amendment: The procedure for amending an approved condominium shall be the same
as for considering an original condominium as set forth in this section.

. Revocation: A recorded condominium plat may not be revoked.

J. Expiration: A condominium shall be deemed withdrawn, and shall expire and have no

further force or effect, if an application for final plat approval is not submitted within
two (2) years after approval of the condominium. An extension of the expiration date
may be approved as provided in subsection 10-5-4M of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-
13-2017)

