HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-14

AMENDING TITLE 10 OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE TO LIMIT THE QUANTITY OF
SPECIFIC COMMERCIAL LAND USES BASED ON POPULATION OR PROXIMITY

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to Utah State Code, may adopt an
ordinance to establish land development regulations (“Zoning”), which includes the adoption
or amendment of Zoning text or map; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission (the
“Commission”) shall prepare and recommend any Zoning text amendments to the City
Council (the “Council”); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days
prior to the said public hearing to recommend any Zoning text amendments to the Council;
and

WHEREAS, a notice of a Planning Commission public hearing on a Zoning text
amendment was posted in three (3) public locations and mailed to affected entities on March
22, 2024, for a meeting to be held on April 3, 2024, at 7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Commission voted 5-1 to recommend approval of the Zoning text
amendment in a public meeting held on April 3, 2024, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council
Chamber; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the Council to
consider the Zoning text amendment and Commission’s recommendation in a public meeting;
and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on June 12, 2024, at 7:00 p.m. to
discuss the Zoning text amendment; and

WHEREAS, the Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the Zoning text amendment, which was recommended by the Planning
Commission and documented in City File number 72024-001;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council for approval to
amend the Herriman City Land Development Code, Title 10, as described in Exhibit “A”.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2024-14, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s
recorder.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 12" day of June 2024.

HERRIMAN CITY

ATTEST: MayorZorin Palfier

AN We 7,

1999 x
oy.
tng. of WISE

Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2024-14
SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10 OF THE HERRIMAN CITY CODE
TO LIMIT THE QUANTITY OF SPECIFIC COMMERCIAL LAND USES BASED ON
POPULATION OR PROXIMITY

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
Lorin Palmer x

Jared Henderson x

Teddy Hodges

Sherrie Ohrn Absent
Steven Shields x x

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 12" day of
June 2024, on a roll call vote as described above.

Exhibit “A”

The following text is comprised of excerpts from various sections of Herriman City Code to provide context
Sor the ordinance. Only the text marked by an underline or strike-through shall be amended by the codifier.

Herriman City Code
Title 10 Land Development Code

10-3-6: Definitions, Land Use Categories
D. Commercial Uses

. . ®
]. ste .

CAR WASH, ACCESSORY: An automatic or self-serve car wash that is an accessory use to a primary

use on the same parcel or lot.

CAR WASH, AUTOMATIC: An establishment primarily engaged in providing automatic or unassisted
machinery for the cleaning of motor vehicles, with or without hand drying or vacuuming facilities for
customer use.

CAR WASH, FULL SERVE: An establishment primarily engaged in providing cleaning or detailing
services of motor vehicles. both exterior and interior surfaces, by one or more employees of the
establishment. A full-serve car wash may or may not include the use of automatic or unassisted machinery
in the cleaning or detailing process. A full-serve car wash may be allowed as a main use on a parcel or lot
where permitted by the zoning district.

CAR WASH, SELF-SERVE: An establishment primarily engaged in providing self-serve facilities for
the cleaning of motor vehicles in a wash bay with a pressurized water hose, with or without hand drying
or vacuuming facilities, by a customer. subscriber. or user of the establishment.

CHAPTER 10-16 TABLE OF USES (EXCERPT)

10-16-1: Uses Any use showing an empty box for a particular zone or any use not shown on this table is
not permitted. See footnotes for qualifying requirements or use limitations.

Prohibited uses include, but are not limited to:

Bus terminal.

Check cashing.

Correctional facility.

Garage, private.

Group Living Arrangement(s) (unless a more specific type of Group Living Arrangement is
expressly allowed as a conditional or permitted use in the table of uses below).
Impound lot.

Junkyard.

Manufactured and mobile home park.

Mineral extraction.

Organic disposal site.

Pawnshop.

Retail tobacco specialty business.

Sanitary landfill.

Legend:

P = Permitted use

C = Conditional use
Blank = Not permitted

Uses’ Zones

1-21
1-43
1-10
1-15
1-21

R-1-43
T-M
M-2
MU
Mu-2

A-1-10

R-2-10

R-2-15

R-20

FR2
RC
OP
C-1
C-2
M-1

Commercial:

Bank or
financial C C/P/I]P/]C{]C P|P

institutions2
Carwash Cr;ycweyocis

Car wash,
automatic

IQ
IM
IO
Ia
Im

Car wash,
full service

ID
IMD
IM
ID
ID

Car wash
self-serve4

Notes:

Ia
Ke)
IMD
IO
Im

'" Accessory uses are allowed in all zones, but only if incidental to a permitted or conditional use and as
provided in section 10-29-5 of this title.

*4" Automatic or self-serve car washes shall only be allowed as an accessory use where permitted by the
zoning district, and self-serve car washes shall have a Mmaximum of 4 car wash bays.

°2 The total number of credit unions in the City shall not exceed one per 20.000 residents based on the
latest population estimate provided by the Governor's Office of Planning and Budget. A credit union
located inside the main building of a principal use that is permitted by the zoning district, such as a
grocery store or motor vehicle dealer. may be allowed as an accessory use and shall not be considered
when calculating the total number credit unions in the city for the purposes of this title.

Chapter 10-24 Parking
10-24-8: Number and Type of Parking Spaces

A. Parking Required: All required parking shall be provided in accordance with this section for every
land use regulated by this title except as otherwise expressly allowed by this title. The total number of
parking spaces required by this section shall be determined by adding together the parking required
by each of the subsections in this section. On-street parking shall not be included in any required
parking calculation.

B. Standard Parking Spaces: Standard parking spaces shall be provided as set forth in section 10-24-12,
chart 10-24, "Off-Street Parking Schedule", of this chapter.

C.

D.

Handicapped Parking Spaces: Parking spaces for handicapped persons shall be provided as required by
the applicable provision of the Building Code and the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards Manual.
Stacked Parking Spaces: Stacked or queue spaces shall be provided as follows:
1. Bank drive-thru including automatic teller machines: Three (3) per lane.
2. Car wash:
a. Self-serve car wash: Three (3) per bay.
b. Automatic car wash-accesseryuse: Four (4) per bay.
c. Full-serve-Autematie-car wash primarytuse: Four (4) per bay.
3. Gasoline pump island: One per pump.
4. Fast-food restaurant drive-thru: Five (5) per lane.

Chapter 10-29 SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
10-29-5: Car Wash, Specific Standards

To preserve the limited water resources within the City, all new and renovated car washes that replace of

50% or more of the car wash equipment shall meet the following additional standards:

A,

mo

In addition to the applicable landscaping requirements of this title, landscaping for all car washes shall
double the number of plantings required in areas adjacent to the stacking and drive-through areas to
mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts associated with the land use.

Car washes shall use facade materials that produce texture. Such materials include but are not limited

to, split-face block, brick, or other approved exterior building materials allowed within the zoning

district or development agreement, and more than one such material shall be utilized. All colors shall

be muted. Bright or reflective colors shall not be allowed except as an accent, up to ten percent (10%)

of each fagade. No long, continuous rooflines without a horizontal break shall be permitted.

Sides of car wash bays or tunnels facing a residential use or neighborhood zoning district shall be

completely enclosed by a wall. Solid windows that do not open, glass blocks. or other closed material

may be used for the wall.

Vacuum stations and related equipment shall comply with the setbacks for the principal structure.

Vacuum stations and related equipment are prohibited along any side of a building facing a residential

use or residential zoning district.

The site shall provide sufficient space to accommodate the minimum number of stacked or queue

spaces specified in Chapter 24 of this title for vehicles waiting to access the car wash prior to reaching

the payment area. All stacking shall be maintained on-site and shall not back onto any public right-of-
way.

Recycling of all water used in a car wash is encouraged to reduce the amount of fresh culinarv water

used. All car washes must be plumbed at the time of construction to provide water recycling systems

for both wash water and reverse osmosis rinse water systems. whether installed or not.

1. All car washes must install systems and equipment sufficient to limit the amount of fresh culinary
water used on a per-vehicle basis. No car wash shall be permitted unless it can be demonstrated that
the system shall not use more than an average of thirty-five (35) gallons of culinary water per car.

2. Systems that recycle water used for vehicle washing and recycle reverse osmosis reject water must
be used in perpetuity following installation.

3. The use of secondary irrigation water in the wash cycle may be permitted in lieu of one or more
of the water recycling requirements of this title if approved by the Herriman City Public Works
Director or authorized designee. The use of recycling water systems and the disposal of water
fluids and solids shall comply with applicable state and federal laws. guidelines, and standards.
Larger storage tanks may be permitted on site to capture and reuse water.

4. Car wash operator shall provide an annual report to the Herriman City Public Works Director that
details the operational history and status of the water recycling system and the rate of culinary
water consumption per car. To ensure compliance with the requirements of this title, the city shall
be permitted to inspect the recycling system during normal business hours.


