HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-24

AN ORDINANCE OF THE HERRIMAN CITY COUNCIL APPROVING AN
AMENDMENT TO HERRIMAN CITY CODE TITLE 10, CHAPTER 15, ARTICLE E
SPORTS AND ENTERTAINMENT MIXED USE OVERLAY ZONE

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to state law, may enact a land use ordinance
establishing regulations for land use and development; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to state law, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
recommend to the City Council the proposed land use ordinance amendment; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to City of Herriman Land Use Ordinance, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least 10 days prior to
said public hearing to prepare and recommend to the City Council the proposed land use
ordinance text changes; and

WHEREAS, notice of the Planning Commission public hearing on the land use
ordinance text change was published on September 6, 2024, noticing of the September 18, 2024,
public hearing at 7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission recommended approval of the land use ordinance
text change in the meeting held on September 18, 2024, at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers of
Herriman City Hall; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to City of Herriman Ordinance, the City Council must hold a
public meeting allowing public input at said public meeting; and

WHEREAS, the City Council public meeting on October 9, 2024 was held at 7:00 p.m.;
and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of
Herriman City to adopt the amended land use ordinance text change as recommended by the
Planning Commission;

NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council that the following
chapter be adopted as a change to the land use ordinance of the City (designated by interlineating
the words to be deleted and underlining the words to be added):

ARTICLE E: SPORTS AND ENTERTAINMENT MIXED USE OVERLAY ZONE
10-15E-1: Purpose

10-15E-2: Applicability

10-15E-3: Permitted And Conditional Uses

10-15E-4: Development Approval

10-15E-6: Signage

10-15E-7: Sign Development Standards

10-15E-1: Purpose
The purpose of the Sports and Entertainment Mixed Use (SEMU) Overlay Zone is to:

A. _-fFacilitate development of a master planned area for international sports training and
associated commercial, educational, and mixedoffice uses, including but not limited to
exhibition events, community events, educational activities, and other mixed uses which
are consistent with a national sports and training area. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)

B. Recognize the uniqueness of significant sports and entertainment complexes and
encourage the development of operations of those facilities.

C, Encourage flexible and creative development in order to offer a unique experience in a high-
quality, visitor-friendly setting that contains a complementary mixture of land uses that
enhance the experience of the place.

D. Support destination facilities and venues that encourage tourists from outside the City,
including commercial, office, and recreational uses.

10-15E-2: Applicability

The provisions of this article shall apply to all land located within the SEMU Overlay Zone as shown
on the official zoning map. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)

10-15E-3: Permitted And Conditional Uses

ili iat aii: tin ly the following uses
shall be permitted in the SEMU Overlay Zone:

4 2 Permitted Use: Maximum Height shall be 60 (sixty) feet, as measured from the edge
of right-of-way of the nearest public city-owned roadway.
2. Conditional Use: The Planning Commission may conditionally approve a building

B._ Personal Instruction Service

Cc. Restaurant (General and Fast Food)

D

E. General Retail

F. Hotel
Personal Care Service is allowed only as an accessory use within or attached to a structure with a
primary permitted use. There shall be no more than 2 Personal Care Service uses within and
attached to a primary permitted use.

10-15E-4: Development Approval


A. Generally: The use and development of land located in the SEMU Overlay Zone shall be
approved according to the applicable administration and development review procedures
set forth in chapter 5 of this title,

B. Minimum Zone Area: All areas to be included in the SEMU Overlay Zone shall be at least five
(5) acres.

C._ Site Plan Approval: Any development in the SEMU Overlay Zone shall be subject to approval
ofa site plan as provided in chapter 10-5-12 of this title.

D. Conditional Use Approval: The conditional use permit procedures set forth in chapter 10-5-
11 of this title shall be applied to requests in the SEMU Overlay Zone.

10-15E-5: Development Standards

A. Generally: The development standards for land located in the SEMU Overlay Zone shall be
the same as the standards for development located in the G-2-underlying Zzone, as set forth
in ehaptert2 ofthis title, except as modified by this article.

B. Minimum Area: Each contiguous land area located within the SEMU Overlay Zone shall
contain at least one-hundred-five (1005) acres.{Ord-2017-54,42-43-2017) The SEMU
Overlay Zone need not be wholly contiguous so long as the minimum contiguous land area
described in the preceding sentence is satisfied.

C._ Site Lighting: All exterior lighting shall conform to standards set forth in this section, and
Title 10 of the City's land use development code. Site lighting for parking lots and walking
paths within the SEMU Overlay Zone shall provide sufficient lighting to promote safety. A

lighting does not negatively impa nearby residen
D. Street Access: Driveway access for facilities along

landu uses.
E. Parking: Parking areas shall be designated for efficient ingress and egress of the facility and
shall include pick-up and drop-off zones near the facility entrance. When multiple facilities

ire adjacent, parking areas shall be designated so that both fa
set forth in chapter 10-24-11 of this title.

F, Walkability: Sidewalks and walking paths shall be incorporated in the SEMU Overlay Zone to
provide safe, efficient, and convenient pedestrian access to. adjacent facilities within the
SEMU Overlay Zone and adjacent developments where determi!
administrative land use authority and are compliant with .10-12- -6(C)(3 3).

G._Architectural Design Materials: All building materials shall be high-quality, durable, and
provide a low-maintenance finish, All facades, including the back and side elevations, shall
be constructed as follows:

1

ility users can share them as

masonry (Brick, CMU, stone, etc)

4.__Material Variation Required: Buildings shall consist of three (3) different materials,
at least one (1) primary material shall be used. Primary materials shall consist of at


5. Shadow Relief Required: Alt buildings in the SEMU Overlay Zone shall have shadow
relief created for all facades by recesses and projections. Recesss
shall arge, u
of ext wallin excess of seventy. (70) feet shall be avoided. Awnings for w
and doors may not be used to account for shadow relief, but are encouraged to help
break up large blank or mono-material spans of bulidings.

6. Street facing facades shall also include pedestrian scale design elements, and
other architectural elements that break up large blank, or mono-material sides of
the building. These elements could include windows (faux or real), awnings,
masonry detail, . Painting and signs shall not count as architectural detail.

7. _Tilt-Up concrete construction is allowed.

8. Parapets concealing flat roofs shall be designed to match the existing architecture,
and are required to screen all roof mounted equipment from all views at the ground
level.

9, Specialized Sporting Event Venue Exception: A Recreation and Entertainment use
that hosts indoor sporting events requiring field space in excess of 40,000 square
feet for a specific sport use may use alternative building materials. Approval of
alternative materials shall be approved by the Planning Commission when the
following are observed:

1. The use of alternative building materials must be justified based on the
specific needs of the sporting event. The applicant must provide a report
from a licensed structural engineer confirming that the alternative materials
comply with the current applicable building code.

Planning Gommission
10-15E-6: Signage
Signage shall be allowed on land located in the SEMU Overlay Zone as follows:

A. Underlying Zones: Signage shall be allowed to the same extent authorized in the underlying
zone, or zones, as Set forth in chapter 27 of this title.

B. Additional Sign: Two (2) additional signs shall be allowed for a regional sports facility, with a
capacity of at least 5,000 spectators, subject to the requirements set forth in section 10-
15E-7 of this article. Such signs shall be permitted and employed only in conjunction with
an operating regional sports facility and may not be constructed or maintained unless such
facility is developed and operated. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)

10-15E-7: Sign Development Standards
A. Asign for a regional sports facility shall be a permitted use and shall conform to applicable
requirements of chapter 27 of this title and all applicable Federal and State law.
Notwithstanding any other restriction in this Code, including chapter 27 of this title, or this
title, a sign is an additional sign that shall be owned and operated by the operator of the
sports facility or its affiliate. An application for a permitted sign shall first obtain planning
approval from the Community Development Director confirming compliance with each of
the following requirements, and the requirements of subsection B of this section, in
advance of applying for a building permit:
1. The sign shall be located within one hundred feet (100') of Mountain View Corridor
right-of-way and within the boundaries of the SEMU Overlay Zone.
2. The sign shall not be located within fifty feet (50') of a planned residential dwelling
and five hundred feet (500) from an existing residential dwelling.

3. The maximum height of the sign shall not exceed ferty fiveforty-five feet (45') above
the average elevation of the travetted-traveled way of Mountain View Corridor
located within one hundred feet (100') from the base of the sign.

4. Each sign may have two (2) display faces with an active display area not to exceed
seven hundred (700) square feet each, an inactive display area of not to exceed five
hundred ferty-eightforty-eight (548) square feet. However, in no event shall the total
sign area exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet.

5. Each sign face shall be oriented towards the travelled way of the adjacent Mountain
View Corridor and away from any residential dwellings located within fifty feet (50')
from the sign.

6. No sign may be located closer than one thousand eight hundred feet (1,800') from
another sign for a regional sports facility.

7. The sign, including the supporting structure, shall be architecturally consistent with
surrounding development and shall include decorative material such as stone,
brick, decorative steel, or similar materials.

B. In addition to the information required for a building permit as described in subsection A of
this section, and the requirements as set forth in chapter 27 of this title, an application for a
regional sports facility sign and a regional sports facility sign shall satisfy the requirements
described below.

1. Asite plan depicting the location of the proposed sign on the subject property, a
rendering of the sign, and any fencing or other screening to segregate the sign area
from adjoining uses;

2. Aphotometric plan for the sign along with a statement from the electronic display
manufacturer certifying that each display will allow for automatic dimming based on
night and day time and ambient light conditions based on industry best practices;
and

3. An acknowledgement from the sign owner that the sign will be operated in
accordance with the following criteria:

1. An electronic display may allow for a change of messages but the interval
between displayed messages shall not be more frequent than the greater of:

1. Eight (8) seconds; or

2. Any interval imposed by applicable State or Federal law.

3. The actual message rotation, or change, shall be accomplished in
one-quarter (1/4) second, or less.

2. Anelectronic display face shall not contain or be illuminated by any
flashing, intermittent, full motion video, scrolling, strobing, racing, blinking,
changes in color, fade in, or fade out or any other imitation of movement or
motion, or any other means not providing constant illumination for each
message.

3. The text, images, and graphics of an electronic display face shall be static
and complete within themselves, without continuation in content to the next
image or message, or to any other sign. (Ord. 2017-54, 12-13-2017)

PASSED AND APPROVED this 9" day of October, 2024.

ATTEST:

HERRIMAN

—
Lap

Mayorkorin Palmer

HERRIMAN

Ad YN A
m/e of Ug

Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2024-24
SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL APPROVING AN AMENDMENT
TO HERRIMAN CITY CODE TITLE, 10, CHAPTER 15, ARTICLE E SPORTS AND
ENTERTAINMENT MIXED-USE OVERLAY ZONE

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
Lorin Palmer us
Jared Henderson xX xX
Teddy Hodges X
Sherrie Ohrn x x
Xx

Steven Shields

TOTALS

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 9" day of
October 2024, on a roll call vote as described above.

