HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2024 - 08

AMENDING TITLE 10 OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE TO REGULATE THE
LOCATION AND OPERATION OF HELIPORTS, HELICOPTERS, AND OTHER
PERSONAL AIR MOBILITY VEHICLES

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to Utah State Code, may adopt an ordinance
to establish land development regulations (““Zoning’’), which includes the adoption or amendment
of Zoning text or map; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
recommend any Zoning text amendments to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days prior
to the said public hearing to recommend any Zoning text amendments to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, a notice of a Planning Commission public hearing on a Zoning text
amendment was posted in three (3) public locations and mailed to affected entities on March 22,
2024, for a meeting to be held on April 3, 2024, at 7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission voted 6-0 to recommend approval of the Zoning
text amendment in a public meeting held on April 3, 2024, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council
Chamber; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the City Council
to consider the Zoning text amendment and Planning Commission recommendation in a public
meeting; and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on April 24, 2024, at 7:00 p.m. to
discuss the Zoning text amendment; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman
City to adopt the Zoning text amendment, which was recommended by the Planning Commission
and documented in City File number Z2024-035;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council for the approval to
amend the Herriman City Official Zoning Ordinance, Title 10, as described in Exhibit “A”.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2024-08, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s
recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 24" day of April 2024.

HERRIMAN CITY

L-

ATTEST: Maysp Lorin Palmner

orate

tor OD 8)
£U cor Pe, QS
Ss ae

od


EXHIBIT A

CHAPTER 10-25 REGULATIONS OF HELICOPTER LANDING AND TAKEOFFS AND
HELIPADS

10-25-1 Purpose:

The purpose of this Chapter is to provide regulations and standards governing the landing and
takeoff of helicopters and the establishment of heliports and helistops within the City of Herriman
to_ protect the health, safety, and welfare of the general public. The City recognizes that all air
space regulations are preempted by federal law.

10-25-2 Applicability:

A. This Chapter applies to all helipads and helistops in the City, including all public use helipads
and helistops requiring prior permission, except as set forth in subsection B of this section.

B. This Chapter does not apply to hospital helipads, emergency services landing facility, medical
emergency sites, and City-sponsored events.

10-25-3 Definitions:

EMERGENCY SERVICES LANDING FACILITY: An area of land or water or a structural
surface that is used. or intended for the use, for the landing and taking off of emergency service
helicopters (police, fire, rescue, medevac, military, or other approved helicopters) on a temporary
basis as defined by federal aviation regulation part 157.

HELICOPTER: A heavier-than-air aircraft supported in flight chiefly by the reactions of the air
on one or more power-driven rotors on substantially vertical axes. This definition shall include any
personal flight device, such as a personal air vehicle, which uses jet power or rotary devices for
the maintenance of flight and accommodates one or more human occupants. A helicopter does
not mean an unmanned aerial vehicle, commonly known as a drone.

HELIPAD: The area of land, water, or a structure used or intended to be used for the landing and
takeoff of helicopters, together with appurtenant buildings. fuel systems. and facilities. This
definition includes heliports, helistops, or helicopter landing facilities.

HOSPITAL HELIPAD: A heliport limited to serving helicopters engaged in air ambulance or other
hospital-related functions. A designated helicopter landing area located at a hospital or medical
facility is a heliport and not a medical emergency landing site.

MEDICAL EMERGENCY SITE: An unprepared site at or near the scene of an accident or similar
medical emergency on which a helicopter may land to pick up a patient to provide emergency
medical transport. A medical emergency landing site is not a heliport as defined by the FAA
advisory circular.

10-25-4 Location and Operations:

A. Helipads are prohibited in all zones in which they are not specifically allowed by conditional
use.

B. Helipads shall not be located within one thousand (1.000) feet of the nearest residential
building or the site of a public or private school.

C. The takeoff and landing area shall be free of any object. plant. or device over 18 inches in


height. Easily movable objects such as gravel shall not be permitted.
D. Helipads shall only operate between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) a.m. and eight o'clock
(8:00) p.m.
E. Helipads shall not be located near houses of worship or locations with large crowd capacity.
F. The acceptable exception to these requirements is a temporary emergency landing.

10-25-5 Site Developments Standards:

A. Approach and departure paths sixty-five (65) feet wide shall be free of obstruction for a
minimum distance of four hundred (400) feet.

B. Setbacks from property lines shall be as follows:

1. Takeoff and landing area: fifty (50) feet:
2. Helicopter maintenance facilities: twenty-five (25) feet: and
3. Administrative or operations building: fifteen (15) feet.

C. Any lighting used for nighttime operations shall be directed away from adjacent properties and
public rights-of-way.

D. Any fuel shall be safely stored within maintenance facilities and safety-certified containers.

E. Rooftop sites are for emergency use and are approved in the building inspection process under
requirements established by the building code and any additional requirements established by
the City's fire department based on National Fire Protection Association references. These sites
are painted as "emergency only."

F. Medical emergency sites are clear and level areas near the scene of an accident or incident that
the local emergency response team designates as the place where the helicopter air ambulance
is directed to land to transport an injured person to a hospital. The City's emergency planning
personnel may pre-designate a medical emergency in the City. Pre-designating sites provides
an_ opportunity to inspect potential sites in advance and select sites with adequate clear
approach and departure airspace and clear ground space.

10-25-6 Conditional Use Standards:

A. The Planning Commission may approve a conditional use for helipads if the helipad conforms
to this Chapter and subject to other reasonable conditions to prevent any adverse impacts on
surrounding properties.

B. To aid in developing any appropriate conditions, the conditional use application shall include
the following:

1. Description of the proposed operations, including the type of use, names and descriptions
of helicopters expected to use the facility, and the anticipated number and timing of daily
flights;

2. A copy of the FAA Part 157 noticing requirement form (FAA Form 7480-1 or successor

form);

A copy of the helipad layout plan provided to the FAA as part of the noticing requirements:

A copy of the completed FAA aeronautical study; and

Identification of any hazards to private facilities that do not have an approved FAA-

approved instrument approach and how the hazards will be mitigated.

a [ee


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2024-08
SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10 OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE TO
REGULATE THE LOCATION AND OPERATION OF HELIPORTS, HELICOPTERS, AND
OTHER PERSONAL AIR MOBILITY VEHICLES

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER

Lorin Palmer

Jared Henderson

Teddy Hodges x

Sherrie Ohrn

x) xX] mM | mK] OX

Steven Shields x

TOTALS 5

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 24" day of
April 2024, on a roll call vote as described above.

