                                                Exhibit “A”

The following text comprises excerpts from various sections of the Herriman City Code, providing context
for the Ordinance. Only the text marked by an underline or strike-through shall be amended by the
codifier.

Herriman City Code
Title 10 Land Development Code

CHAPTER 10-35 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES OTHER THAN PUBLIC
RIGHT-OF-WAY AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
10-35-1  Recitals
10-35-2  Purpose
10-35-3  Exclusions.
10-35-4  Definitions
10-35-5  General Standards for All Facilities
10-35-6  Location Standards for All Facilities
10-35-7  Engineering and Design Standards
10-35-8  Waivers of These Standards.
10-35-9  Standard Conditions of Approval for Permits
10-35-10 Eligible Facility Requests
10-35-11 Small Cell Facilities
10-35-12 Basic Application Requirements for Permits
10-35-13 Processing of Applications

10-35-1 Recitals
A. It is the preference of the city to locate small wireless communications facilities within the public
   rights-of-way or wireless communications facilities that do not meet the definition of a small wireless
   facility on public or quasi-public property. The siting of wireless facilities outside of the rights-of-way
   and not on public or quasi-public property shall only be permitted if denial of such a permit would
   violate law, as demonstrated in the application of a Permittee. Should such a finding be made, any
   such permit to locate a wireless facility outside of the rights-of-way and not on public property shall
   be subject to this chapter of Herriman City Code (HCC).

B. This chapter shall govern the permitting, installation, and regulation of wireless communications
   facilities in the City, other than those in the public right-of-way or on public or quasi-public property,
   which are subject to HCC.

C. Applicants shall design, engineer, and locate wireless communications facilities in accordance with
   the wireless regulations set forth separately through ordinances adopted by the City Council and
   standards established by the City Engineer.

D. Being authorized to do so by Federal and Utah law, the City wishes to establish engineering, design,
   and development standards applicable to wireless installations for deployments outside of the public
   right of way and/or located on City property;

E. The City also wishes to set standard conditions of approval and basic application requirements
   applicable to wireless permits.
10-35-2 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to establish design and location standards for wireless communications
facilities on land other than on a public right-of-way or public or quasi-public property; set standard
conditions of approval for wireless permits, and set basic application requirements for wireless permits.

10-35-3 Exclusions
The following facilities are exempt from the requirements of this article but may be governed by other
laws and other portions of this ordinance.

A. Consumer-End Antennas. Consumer-end antennas shall be exempt from the provisions of this article
   if they meet the following requirements, as applicable:

   1. A satellite dish less than one meter (39.37 inches) in diameter and that, if mounted on a mast, is
      mounted no higher than needed to receive or transmit an acceptable quality signal and in no event
      higher than twelve (12) feet above roofline.

   2. An antenna designed to receive over-the-air broadcast signals, no higher than needed to receive or
      transmit an acceptable quality signal, and in no event higher than twelve (12) feet above roofline.

   3. A broadband radio service antenna one meter or less in diameter or diagonal measurement and
      that, if mounted on a mast, is mounted no higher than needed to receive or transmit an acceptable
      quality signal and in no event higher than twelve (12) feet above roofline.

B. Amateur Radio Antennas:

   1. That are completely enclosed within a permitted building; or

   2. That consists of a single wire not exceeding one-fourth inch in diameter. Such wire antennas may
      be located in setback areas provided the antenna does not extend above the maximum building
      height in the district; or

   3. That consists of a single ground-mounted vertical pole or whip antenna not exceeding fifty (50)
      feet in height in residential zone classifications or one hundred and five (105) feet in height in non-
      residential zone classifications, measured from the finished grade at the base of the antenna, and
      not located in any required setback area. Support structures or masts for pole or whip antennas
      shall conform to standards set out in the Utah Building Standards Code.

   4. Nothing in this section shall be read to waive the requirement of a building permit for the support
      structure or mast.

C. Like-Kind Equipment Replacements.

   1. Like-kind equipment replacements or adding or changing equipment in an existing cabinet, vault,
      or shroud that does not increase pre-existing visual or noise impacts and has radio frequency (RF)
      emissions that are in compliance with Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) regulations.
      The existing equipment must have been approved by the City, and the equipment must be in
      compliance with all permit conditions. Qualifying like-kind equipment replacements that do not
      require County approval consist of upgrades or exchanges of equipment that are substantially
      similar in appearance and the same or less in size, dimensions, weight, and RF emissions to the
      then-existing and approved equipment. This exemption does not apply to generators.
D. Certain Temporary Facilities. The following temporary wireless facilities may be placed for less than
   fourteen (14) consecutive days, provided any necessary building permit or other approval is obtained
   and the landowner’s written consent is provided to the City:

   1. Facilities installed and operated for large-scale events; and

   2. Facilities needed for coverage during the temporary relocation of an existing and already-approved
      facility.

E. Legally Existing Wireless Facilities

   1. Subject to Applicable Laws, any wireless facility already legally constructed and in operation as
      of the date of this ordinance’s effective date shall remain subject to the provisions of the version
      of the ordinance in effect prior to this revision, unless and until a revised permit, substantial
      conformance, or other modification is approved on such facility, at which time the provisions of
      the revised ordinance shall apply in full force going forward as to such facility.

10-35-4 Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter, definitions set forth in HCC Chapter 10-3 are incorporated by reference
into this section and shall apply in addition to the following definitions:

A. Antenna. A device used for the purpose of transmitting or receiving wireless communication signals
   or both, along with associated equipment and consistent with the provisions of Title 47
   Telecommunication of the Code of Federal Regulations (47 C.F.R.) section 1.6002(b) – (d).

B. Applicable Law. Applicable law has the same meaning as Law as defined in HCC Chapter 1-3.

C. Base Station. A structure or equipment at a fixed location that enables FCC-licensed or authorized
   wireless communications between user equipment and a communications network as defined in 47
   C.F.R. section 1.6100(b)(1), or any successor provision.

D. Collocation. The mounting or installation of transmission equipment on a legally existing base station
   or tower as defined:

   1. for the purposes of any eligible facilities request, the same as defined by the FCC in 47 C.F.R.
      section1.6100(b)(2), as may be amended, which defines that term as ‘[t]he mounting or installation
      of transmission equipment on an eligible support structure for the purpose of transmitting and/or
      receiving radio frequency signals for communications purposes.’ As an illustration and not a
      limitation, the FCC’s definition means to add transmission equipment to an existing facility and
      does not necessarily refer to two or more different facility operators in the same location; and

   2. for all other purposes, the same as defined in 47 C.F.R. section 1.6002(g)(1) and (2), as may be
      amended, which defines the term collocation as

                      a. mounting or installing an antenna facility on a pre-existing structure, and/or

                      b. modifying a structure for the purpose of mounting or installing an antenna
                         facility on that structure.

E. Concealed Wireless Facilities. Facilities blended into the environment by being placed entirely within
   an existing or new structure, so as not to be recognized as a wireless facility. Concealed Wireless
    Facilities include, but are not limited to, architecturally screened roof-mounted facilities, façade-
    mounted design feature facilities, clock tower facilities, and entry statement signage facilities. These
    may consist of concealed wireless facilities on a new structure or concealed wireless facilities on an
    existing structure, and the distinction may affect how the associated permit is processed.

F. Disguised Wireless Facilities. Facilities designed and sited so as to be minimally visually intrusive,
   which incorporate concealment elements that screen or otherwise alter the appearance of the wireless
   facility to integrate it into the surrounding environment and support structure or base station. Disguised
   wireless facilities include, but are not limited to; faux trees including but not limited to monopalms
   and monopines; facilities integrated into flagpoles; facilities integrated onto water towers or other
   architecturally designed structures; facilities integrated onto private street lights, electric utility poles,
   and strand mounted antennas when located on private property and painted to blend with their
   surroundings.

G. Eligible Facilities Request. Any request for modification of a legally existing tower or base station
   that does not substantially change the physical dimensions of such tower or base station as defined in
   47 C.F.R. section 1.6100(b)(3), or any successor provision.

H. Equipment Enclosure. Any freestanding or mounted structure, shelter, cabinet, or vault used to house
   and protect Supporting Equipment.

I. FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration or its lawful successor.

J. FCC. The Federal Communications Commission or its lawful successor.

K. Non-Residential Zone Classifications. Any of the following zones are classified as non-residential for
   the purposes of this Chapter: C-1 Commercial, C-2 Commercial, OP Office Professional, T-M
   Technology Manufacturing, M-1 Manufacturing, and M-2 Manufacturing.

L. Other Wireless Facilities. New wireless facilities or modifications to existing wireless facilities that
   are not otherwise exempt from this article and that do not qualify as small cell facilities, collocations,
   eligible facilities requests, disguised facilities, or concealed facilities.

M. Personal Wireless Services. Services as defined in 47 United States Code (U.S.C.) section
   332(c)(7)(C)(i) or any successor provision, current examples of which include but are not limited to
   commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless services, and common carrier wireless exchange
   access services.

N. Wireless Services Facility. A wireless facility used for the provision of personal wireless services.

O. Planning Director. The Planning Director of the City of Herriman or his or her designee.

P. Residential Zone Classifications. Any of the following zones are classified as residential zones for the
   purposes of this Chapter: R-1-10 Single-Family Residential, R-1-15 Single-Family Residential, R-1-
   21 Single-Family Residential, R-1-43 Single-Family Residential, R-2-10 Multifamily Residential, R-
   2-15 Multifamily Residential, and R-20-43 Multifamily Residential.

Q. School. School means any building, campus, or sports field which is designed, constructed, or used
   for education, instruction, or school sports, whether public or private, in any branch of knowledge.
R. Small Cell Facility or Small Wireless Facility. The term as defined in 47 C.F.R. section 1.6002(l), or
   any successor provision.

S. Stealth Facility. Stealth facility (or “stealth facilities”) means a wireless communications facility
   designed to look like something other than a wireless tower or base station.

T. Support Structure. A pole, tower, base station, or other building, whether or not it has an existing
   antenna facility, that is used or to be used for the provision of personal wireless service, whether on
   its own or comingled with other types of services, as defined in 47 C.F.R. 1.6002(m) or any successor
   provision.

U. Supporting Equipment. The equipment necessary for processing wireless communication signals and
   any ancillary equipment, including, but not limited to, air conditioners, emergency generators, and
   other back-up power suppliers.

V. Temporary Wireless Facility. A wireless facility intended or used to provide wireless services on a
   temporary or emergency basis, such as a large-scale special event in which more users than usual
   gather in a single location, or following a duly proclaimed local or State emergency requiring
   additional service capabilities. Temporary facilities include without limitation, cells on wheels (also
   referred to as COWs), sites on wheels (also referred as SOWs), cells on light trucks (also referred to
   as COLTs), or other similar wireless facilities:

           1. that will be in place for no more than six (6) months, or such other longer time as the City
              may allow in light of the event or emergency;

           2. for which required notice is provided to the FAA;

           3. that do not require marking or lighting under FAA regulations;

           4. that will not exceed the height limit in the applicable zone; and

           5. that will either involve no excavation or involve excavation only as required to safely
              anchor the facility, where the depth of previous disturbance exceeds the proposed
              construction depth (excluding footings and other anchoring mechanisms) by at least two
              (2) feet.

W. Tower. Any structure built for the sole or primary purpose of supporting any FCC-licensed or
   authorized antennas and their associated facilities, including structures that are constructed for
   personal wireless services including, but not limited to, private, broadcast, and public safety services,
   as well as unlicensed wireless services and fixed wireless services such as microwave backhaul, and
   the associated site. This definition does not include Utility Poles.

X. Utility Pole. A structure designed to support electric, telephone, and similar utility lines. A Tower is
   not a utility pole.

Y. Wireless Facility, Wireless Communication Facility or Facility. Transmitters, antenna structures, and
   other types of installations used for the provision of wireless services at a fixed location, including,
   without limitation, any associated tower(s), support structure(s), and base station(s).

10-35-5 General Standards for all Facilities
  The following general requirements apply at all times to all wireless communications facilities located in
  all zoning districts where permitted by HCC 10-16 Table of Uses.

A.   All wireless communications facilities shall be engineered and designed to minimize visual impact by
     means of placement, screening, camouflaging, painting, and texturing to be compatible with existing
     architectural elements, building materials, and other site characteristics. The Applicant shall use the
     smallest and least visible antenna possible to accomplish the facility’s objectives. All antennas and
     support structures shall be painted and/or textured to achieve architectural compatibility with the
     structures to which they are attached and/or with which they are located.

B.   Each facility must comply with any and all applicable provisions of the HCC, including, but not limited
     to, provisions of the State Construction Code as adopted by the Utah State Legislature, and any
     conditions of approval imposed as part of the approval process.

C.   Each facility must comply with any and all applicable regulations and standards promulgated or
     imposed by any city, state, or federal agency, including, but not limited to, the Federal
     Communications Commission (FCC) and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Further, all
     wireless communications facilities, associated equipment, and services shall comply with Americans
     with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements.

D.   Fire and Electrical Safety Standards. All wireless communications facilities shall contain:

     1. A power shut-off readily accessible to fire service personnel for emergencies;

     2. Surge protection for lightning discharge or other significant electrical disturbances;

     3. Signage as required by the permit conditions, the National Electric Code, the Unified Fire
        Authority, or their designee; and

     4. Instructions for first responders to de-energize the equipment.


  E. The facility must at all times comply with all applicable health requirements and standards pertaining
     to radio frequency emissions as promulgated by the FCC.

  F. All antennas shall meet the minimum siting distances to habitable structures required for compliance
     with FCC regulations and standards governing the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions.

  G. Interference with city communications systems and other governmental emergency systems is
     prohibited. Further, no permits issued pursuant to this chapter of the HCC establishes any guarantee
     or warranty that the Licensee’s facility will be free from interference from city or third-party
     communication systems.

  H. Noise. Wireless communications facilities and equipment must comply with the City’s noise ordinance
     in HCC Chapter 4-6, or any successor provisions, and be designed to prevent noise and sound from
     being plainly audible at a distance of fifty (50) feet from the facility or within ten (10) feet of any
     residence.

  I. Signs. No facility may display any signage or advertisement unless it is expressly allowed by this
     paragraph, necessary for stealth concealment purposes, or required by law or a permit condition. Every
     facility shall at all times display signage that accurately identifies the facility owner and provides the
     owner’s unique site number and a local or toll-free telephone number to contact the facility owner’s
     operations center, and which complies with FCC regulations.

  J. Landscaping. Where appropriate, facilities shall be installed so as to maintain and enhance existing
     landscaping on the site, including trees, foliage, and shrubs, whether or not utilized for screening. In
     addition to any landscaping used for concealment or screening purposes, the Applicant shall replace
     any existing landscaping displaced during the construction or installation of the Applicant’s facility.
     The Applicant’s landscaping plan shall be subject to the City’s review and approval, but shall, at a
     minimum, match the existing landscaping and foliage surrounding the installation site, consistent with
     the standards of the applicable zoning district and HCC Chapter 10-23 Landscaping and Screening
     and HCC Chapter 10-32 Water Efficiency Standards. Permittee shall ensure that any vegetation,
     including vegetation provided for screening, allowed to remain in place within the area covered by the
     permit is properly maintained and watered in compliance with city code.

  K. All electrical support equipment located within cabinets, shelters, or similar structures shall be
     screened from public view. Roof-mounted electrical support equipment shall be discouraged. Ground-
     mounted electrical support equipment shall be encouraged. In addition, the undergrounding of support
     equipment is required wherever practicable.

  L. All antennas shall be located such that any person walking adjacent to the transmitting surface of the
     antenna will be walking on a grade that is a minimum of eight and one-half (8 ½) feet below the
     transmitting surface.

  M. Lighting of antenna structures and their electrical support equipment is prohibited, except as required
     by any order or regulation of the FCC or the FAA, and for manually operated emergency lights for
     use when official operating personnel are on site.

  N. Unless barred by other laws, no permit will be granted absent a back-up power supply for all new
     wireless communications.

  10-35-6 Location Standards for All Facilities
  The location standards for all wireless communications facilities, other than those that qualify as eligible
  facility requests, are as follows:

A.   No wireless telecommunication facility shall be located within five hundred (500) feet of any school,
     playground, or park unless a finding is made, based on technical evidence acceptable to the reviewing
     authority, that the absence of its deployment would have the effect of prohibiting Personal Wireless
     Services as provided by Applicable Law. Except for facilities installed on the same pole or tower as
     an existing wireless telecommunication facility, wireless telecommunication facilities located within
     any residential zone district shall not be located within five hundred (500) feet of any other wireless
     communications facility.

B.   All new freestanding wireless communications facilities and monopoles shall be set back a minimum
     distance of at least one hundred (100) percent of the height of the facility or monopole from any
     property line abutting a residential zone district. This minimum setback is not subject to the waivers
     allowed under HCC Section 10-35-8 of this ordinance.

  C. Location preference for wireless communications facilities should be given to the following:

     1. Property designated as public or quasi-public, except where prohibited pursuant to this title.
        However, property designated non-residential may be approved by the Planning Commission as a
        Conditional Use when:
       a. Public or quasi-public properties are unavailable or inaccessible within an area that has
          technical or communication deficiencies, and

       b. The absence of the facility’s deployment would have the effect of prohibiting Personal
          Wireless Services as provided by Applicable Law.

   2. Facilities attached or sited adjacent to existing structures. Whenever possible, facilities shall be
      located on and/or inside existing structures. Appropriate types of existing structures may include,
      but are not limited to: buildings, water tanks, telephone poles, utility towers and poles, sign
      standards, light standards, and roadway overpasses.

   3. Sites that are not highly visible from adjacent public roadways.

   4. Unless otherwise indicated in HCC Chapter 10-35 or adopted city Standards, no wireless facility
      shall be installed on an exposed ridgeline unless the facility blends with the surrounding existing
      natural and man-made environment and a finding is made that no other location is technically
      feasible.

10-35-7 Engineering and Design Standards for all Facilities
The general design standards for wireless communications facilities subject to this chapter are as follows:

A) Basic Requirements. The proposed wireless facility and its supporting structure (if needed) shall be
   limited to the minimum size necessary to serve the defined service objectives of the wireless service
   provider or providers that will be using the facility, except where a larger facility has superior
   concealment elements.

   1. Materials. The materials used shall be non-reflective and non-flammable.

   2. Cabinet doors and other openings must be designed to stay securely closed, and openings in all
      facilities shall be shielded or made the smallest size feasible to protect against fire and wind-blown
      embers.

   3. The tower, or other support structure, and all equipment shall be designed to withstand forces from
      seismic events. To that end, all wireless facility sites must be built to the applicable standards of
      Hardening Requirements, including, but not limited to, APCO ANSI 2.106.1–2019, or their
      replacements. The telecommunications tower, pole, or structure, when fully loaded with antennas,
      transmitters, and other equipment and camouflaging, shall be designed as determined by the
      Building Official. All equipment mounting racks and equipment used shall be anchored in such a
      manner that such a quake will not tip them over, throw the equipment off its shelves, or otherwise
      act to damage it.

   4. All connections between various components of the facility, power lines, and conduit shall be
      designed in a manner to protect against damage by a natural disaster, a vehicular accident, an act
      of vandalism, or similar external forces.

B) Stealth. The wireless facility shall be stealth unless the Applicant demonstrates that a stealth design
   would be technically infeasible or would prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision of
   wireless services.

       1. Stealth elements and techniques should be used to blend the facility with the surrounding
           materials and colors of the support structure or make the facility appear to be something
           other than a wireless facility. Stealth elements include, but are not limited to, the following:
               a. Radio frequency (RF) transparent screening or shrouds;

               b. Matching the color of the existing support structure by painting, coating, or otherwise
                  coloring the wireless facility, equipment, mounting brackets, and cabling;

               c. Placing cables and wires inside the pole or in a conduit of the smallest size possible;

               d. Minimizing the size of the site;

               e. Installing new infrastructure that matches existing infrastructure in the area
                  surrounding the proposed site;

               f. Painting, coating, or otherwise coloring new wireless facilities, equipment, mounting
                  brackets, and cabling a color designed to allow the facility to blend in with the color
                  of the sky or surroundings when viewed from the ground;

               g. Using paint of durable quality; and

               h. Building with weather-resistant materials while permitting weathered treatment for
                  aesthetic reasons and to avoid reflective material.

C) Minimum Height. All antennas shall be located such that:

     1. any person walking adjacent to the transmitting surface of the antenna will be walking on a
        grade that is a minimum of eight and one-half (8 ½) feet below the transmitting surface; and
     2. no person at ground level will be exposed to an exposure level that is higher than allowed by
        the FCC’s general population exposure rules.

D) Façade-Mounted Equipment. Façade-mounted antennas and equipment shall be architecturally
   integrated into the building or other support structure, designed and otherwise made as unobtrusive as
   possible so that the facility does not appear to be a wireless facility. Antennas and equipment should
   be located entirely within an existing or newly created architectural feature so as to be completely
   screened from view. Façade-mounted facilities shall generally not extend more than eighteen (18)
   inches out from and may not project above the building face. Façade-mounted wireless
   telecommunication facilities shall not exceed twenty-eight (28) feet above the ground. However,
   antenna elements, mounted flush on the facade of an existing structure that exceeds twenty-eight (28)
   feet, may have a height equal to the height of the building.

E) Ground-Mounted Equipment. Outdoor ground-mounted equipment associated with base stations shall
   be avoided whenever feasible. In locations visible or accessible to the public, the Applicant shall
   conceal outdoor ground-mounted equipment, including ancillary power generation equipment, with
   opaque fences or landscape features that mimic the adjacent structure(s) (including, but not limited to,
   dumpster corrals and other accessory structures) and by painting, texturing, or otherwise concealing
   the facility as much as possible. Ground-mounted wireless communications facilities shall be located
   near existing structures or trees at similar heights for screening purposes where feasible. Not more
   than one ground-mounted antenna, provided that licensed amateur radio station antennas consistent
   with this section shall also be permitted on each site.
     F) Roof-Mounted Facilities. Roof-mounted antennas and necessary equipment shall be screened from
        above if visible from higher elevations. Rooftop-mounted wireless telecommunication facilities shall
        not exceed twenty-eight (28) feet in height or three (3) feet above the roof parapet from which they
        are attached, whichever is less restrictive. Associated roof-mounted equipment cabinets shall not
        extend more than three (3) feet above the roof from which it is attached and shall be set back a
        minimum of ten (10) feet from the edge of the roof. All roof-mounted equipment cabinets shall be
        located behind a mechanical screen wall. In the event that a roof parapet wall screens the equipment
        cabinets, a mechanical screen wall will not be required.

     G) Freestanding Facilities. Freestanding facilities requiring a new monopole or other new support
        structure shall be stealth facilities. Further, they shall be located as close as possible to existing above-
        ground utilities, such as electrical towers or utility poles (which are not scheduled for removal or under
        grounding for at least eighteen (18) months after the date of application), light poles, or trees of
        comparable heights, and in areas where they will not detract from the appearance of the City.

        1. Freestanding wireless telecommunication facilities, including monopoles, shall not exceed fifty
           (50) feet in height and shall not extend higher than the top of the ridgeline nearest the antenna,
           unless approved by the Planning Director for a greater height, but in no case greater than eighty
           (80) feet. The height of a freestanding facility shall be measured from the natural undisturbed
           ground surface below the center of the base of the tower itself to the tip of the highest antenna or
           piece of equipment attached thereto.

        2. Aside from the antenna itself, no additional equipment may be visible. All cables, including but
           not limited to electrical and utility cables, shall be run within the interior of the freestanding facility
           and shall be camouflaged or hidden to the fullest extent feasible without jeopardizing the physical
           integrity of the facility.

        3. Monopole installations shall be situated so as to utilize existing natural or man-made features,
           including topography, vegetation, buildings, or other structures, to provide the greatest amount of
           visual screening.

      4.    All antenna components and accessory wireless equipment shall be treated with exterior coatings
            of a color and texture to match the predominant visual background or existing architectural
            elements so as to visually blend in with the surrounding development. Subdued colors and non-
            reflective materials that blend with surrounding materials and colors shall be used.

      5.    Monopoles shall be no greater in diameter or other cross-sectional dimensions than is necessary
            for the proper functioning of the facility.

H.      All wireless telecommunication facilities shall be designed to prevent unauthorized climbing and
        graffiti.

I.      Fire Safety Standards. All wireless facility designs shall include:

      1.    A power shut off, such as by means of rapid entry Knox or similar type systems, shall be installed;

      2.    Surge protection devices capable of mitigating a direct or partial direct lightning discharge; and
     3.    Surge protection devices capable of mitigating significant electrical disturbances that may enter
           the facility via conductive cables.

J.     Satellite dish or parabolic antennas shall be situated as close to the ground as possible to reduce visual
       impact without compromising their function.

K.     Support equipment pads, cabinets, shelters, and buildings require architectural, landscape, color,
       fencing, or other camouflage treatment to minimize visual impacts to the extent deemed necessary by
       the Planning Director. Landscaping screening should also be provided if irrigation water is available.

L.     No freestanding facility or ancillary support equipment may be located between the face of a building
       and a public street, bikeway, park, or residence.

  10-35-8 Waivers of These Standards

  A) A waiver of one or more of these Standards may be granted in the following circumstances:

     1.    Applicant demonstrates with substantial evidence that denial of an application would, within the
           meaning of federal law, prohibit or effectively prohibit the provision of personal wireless services,
           or otherwise violate Applicable Laws or regulations;

     2.    Applicant demonstrates with substantial evidence set forth in a feasibility study that

                              a. compliance with a requirement of these Standards would be
                                 technically infeasible and

                              b. the proposed wireless facility complies with the requirements of
                                 these Standards to the greatest extent technically feasible. For
                                 example, an exception to a requirement to conceal antennas in a
                                 shroud may be granted if shrouding is shown to be technically
                                 infeasible and an alternative concealment, such as a colored film
                                 wrap, is proposed; or

          3. Applicant demonstrates with substantial evidence that the particular engineering, design, or
             location proposed involves an alternative that better meets the purposes of this section, and is
             in substantial compliance with a requirement of these design Standards and results in no
             increase in public visual impact to the community, or provides other benefits. For example, an
             exception to the wireless facility location limitations may be granted when the Applicant can
             demonstrate that the placement is less visible from viewsheds of residences or shielded by
             vegetation or existing infrastructure (such as barriers), or is less physically intrusive (for
             example, less impactful to tree roots or reduces noise). Among other factors, in deciding
             whether or not to grant an exception, the Planning Commission may consider the impact of
             expansions to the facility that the Applicant would be entitled to make as of right if granted.

  B. Waivers may only be requested at the time an application is initially submitted for a discretionary
  permit. The request must include both the specific provision(s) from which waiver is sought and the basis
  of the request, including all supporting evidence on which the Applicant relies. Any request for waiver
  after the City has deemed an application complete constitutes a material change to the proposed wireless
facility and shall be considered a new application. A request for waiver from one or more requirements
does not relieve the Applicant from compliance with all other applicable provisions of law.

10-35-9 Standard Conditions of Approval for Permits
In addition to any supplemental conditions imposed by the Planning Director as the case may be, all land
use permits or conditional use permits granted for wireless communications facilities regulated by this
chapter shall be subject to the following conditions, unless modified by the approving authority:

A) General Conditions.

 1.      The permittee shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the city or any of its boards,
         commissions, agents, officers, and employees from any claim, action or proceeding against the
         city, its boards, commission, agents, officers, or employees to attack, set aside, void, or annul, the
         approval of the project, or to hold the City liable in whole or in part as a result of the engineering,
         design, construction or operation of the facility. The City shall promptly notify the provider(s) of
         any such claim, action, or proceeding if the city bears its own attorney’s fees and costs, and the
         city defends the action in good faith.

 2.      The permittee’s facilities shall not interfere with the city’s communications systems. The permittee
         shall be responsible for costs for determining the source of the interference, all costs associated with
         eliminating the interference (including but not limited to filtering, installing cavities, installing
         directional antennas, powering down systems, and engineering analysis), and all costs arising from
         third-party claims against the city attributable to the interference.

 3.      Subsequent submittals for this project shall be in substantial compliance with the plans and date-
         stamped received by the Planning Department on (date of approval). The project shall comply with
         all conditions of approval stipulated in the referral sheets attached to the agenda report for this
         project. In the event the project plans conflict with any condition of approval, the condition shall
         take precedence, and revised plans shall be submitted and approved by the Planning Director.

 4.      The permit and rights conferred in this approval shall not be effective until the permittee signs,
         notarizes and returns the Acceptance of Conditions Affidavit accepting the conditions set forth
         herein. The Applicant shall file this form with the Planning Department within 30 days of this
         decision or prior to issuance of any development, conditional use, building, electrical, or
         encroachment permit.

 5.      The Applicant shall digitally submit a complete set of plans, including any additional items required
         by the Planning Department, for consistency review and approval prior to plan check and again prior
         to the issuance of any building or land use permits.

 6.      The Notice of Decision (including the signed and notarized Acceptance of Conditions Affidavit)
         shall be copied in its entirety and placed directly onto a separate plan sheet(s) to be included in the
         development plans prior to submitting any land use permits from the city.

      7. A land use permit or conditional use permit, as applicable, shall be valid for a period of two (2) years
         from issuance, unless pursuant to another provision of the HCC or these conditions, it expires sooner
         or is terminated. At the end of two (2) years from the date of issuance, such development or
         conditional use permit shall automatically expire, unless an extension or renewal has been granted,
         which grant shall not be unreasonably withheld. A person holding a land use permit or conditional
         use permit must either
                  a. remove the facility within thirty (30) days following the permit’s expiration
                     (provided that removal of support structure owned by City, a utility, or another entity
                     authorized to maintain a support structure need not be removed, but must be restored
                     to its prior condition, except as specifically permitted by the City); or

                  b. prior to expiration, submit an application to renew the permit, which application
                     must, among all other requirements, demonstrate that the impact of the wireless
                     facility cannot be reduced. The wireless facility must remain in place until it is acted
                     upon by the City and all appeals from the City’s decision are exhausted.

 8.   The installation and construction authorized by a building permit shall be completed within one
      hundred eighty (180) days after its approval, or it will expire without further action by the City
      unless, prior to the one hundred eighty (180) days, the Applicant submits an extension request to the
      City Building Department, and, in its sole discretion, may grant a time extension for due cause. The
      installation and construction authorized by a permit shall conclude, including any necessary post-
      installation repairs and/or restoration to the property, within thirty (30) days following the day
      construction commenced. The permittee must provide written notice to the City within ten (10) days
      after completing construction and may not begin operations until all City and Fire Department (if
      applicable) inspections have been completed and the project is found to be consistent with the permit.
      The expiration date shall be suspended until an appeal and/or litigation regarding the subject permit
      is resolved.

 9.   The Planning Director may grant up to four one-year extensions of the timeline, in Condition 7
      above, for completing the installation and construction authorized by a development or condition
      use permit, if the Planning Director finds that the conditions, including but not limited to changes
      in the wireless ordinance under which the permit approval was issued, have not significantly
      changed.

10.   Any questions of intent or interpretation of any condition of approval will be resolved by the
      Planning Director upon written request of such interpretation.

11.   All structures shall conform to the requirements of all buildings and fire codes. Notwithstanding
      this review, all required permits, including, but not limited to, an encroachment permit from the
      City, shall be secured.

12.   Minor changes to the approved plans or the conditions of approval may be approved by the
      Planning Director, provided such changes achieve substantially the same results and the project is
      still in compliance with the HCC. An application with all required materials and fees shall be
      submitted.

B) Cultural Resource Conditions.

   1. In the event that potentially important cultural resources are found in the course of geologic testing,
      work shall immediately cease until a qualified archaeologist can provide an evaluation of the nature
      and significance of the resources and until the Planning Director can review this information.

   2. If human bone is discovered, the procedures found in Utah and Herriman law shall be followed.
      These procedures require notification of the coroner. If the coroner determines that the remains are
      those of a Native American, the Applicant shall notify the Native American Heritage Commission
      by phone within 24 hours.
C.      Wireless Facility Conditions.

      1.   All antennas shall meet the minimum siting distances to public/uncontrolled areas required for
           compliance with the FCC regulations and standards governing the environmental effects of radio
           frequency emissions. Permittee shall keep up to date on current information from the FCC in
           regards to maximum permissible radio frequency exposure levels. In the event that the FCC
           changes its guidelines for human exposure to radio frequency, permittee shall, within thirty (30)
           days after any such change, submit to the Planning Director a report prepared by a qualified
           engineer that demonstrates actual compliance with such changed guidelines. The Director may, at
           permittee’s sole cost, retain an independent consultant to evaluate the compliance report and any
           potential modifications to the permit necessary to conform to the FCC’s guidelines. Failure to
           submit the compliance report required under this condition, or failure to maintain compliance with
           the FCC’s guidelines for human exposure to radio frequency at all times, shall constitute grounds
           for permit revocation.

      2.   All antennas shall be located so that any person walking adjacent to the transmitting surface of the
           antenna will be walking on a grade, which is a minimum of eight and one-half (8 1/2) feet below
           the transmitting surface.

      3.   All antennas, equipment, and support structures shall be engineered and designed to prevent
           unauthorized climbing.

      4.   The wireless facility shall be erected, operated, and maintained in compliance with the general
           requirements set forth in the Standards and any specific requirements in the permit.

      5.   The antenna and electrical support equipment shall, at all times, be operated in a manner that
           conforms to the applicable health and safety standards, including those imposed by this Ordinance.

      6.   Wireless communications facilities and equipment must comply with the city’s noise ordinance,
           or any successor provisions, and prevent noise and sound from being plainly audible at a distance
           of fifty (50) feet from the facility or within ten (10) feet of any residence.

      7.   The Planning Director’s approval is required if a generator is to be placed on-site for temporary or
           permanent use.

      8.   All non-ground-mounted equipment associated with the application shall be located no lower than
           eight feet above grade or ground level on the monopole or support structure.

      9.   The City or its designee may enter onto the facility area to inspect the facility upon forty-eight (48)
           hours prior notice to the permittee. The permittee shall cooperate with all inspections and may be
           present for any inspection of its facility by the City. The City reserves the right to enter or direct
           its designee to enter the facility and support, repair, disable, or remove any elements of the facility
           in emergencies or when the facility threatens imminent harm to persons or property. The City shall
           make an effort to contact the permittee prior to disabling or removing any facility elements, but in
           any case, shall notify permittee within twenty-four (24) hours of doing so.

     10.   Testing of any equipment shall take place on weekdays only, and only between the hours of 8:30
           a.m. and 4:30 p.m., except that testing is prohibited on holidays that fall on a weekday. In addition,
           testing is prohibited on weekends.
11.   Permittee shall obtain and maintain throughout the term of the permit commercial general liability
      insurance with a limit of two million dollars ($2,000,000) per occurrence for bodily injury and
      property damage and four million dollars ($4,000,000) general aggregate including premises
      operations, contractual liability, personal injury, and products completed operations. The relevant
      policy (or policies) shall name the City, its elected/appointed officials, commission members,
      officers, representatives, agents, and employees as additional insureds. A true and correct copy of
      the policy of insurance shall constitute proof of insurance required by this subsection. Permittee
      shall use its best efforts to provide thirty (30) days’ prior notice to the City of the cancellation or
      material modification of any applicable insurance policy. Failure to maintain insurance consistent
      with this Condition shall automatically void the permit, and the permittee shall immediately
      deenergize and remove the facility from operation.

12.   Prior to issuance of a City permit or encroachment permit, the permittee shall file with the City,
      and shall maintain in good standing throughout the term of the approval, a performance bond or
      other surety or another form of security (for example, a letter of credit) for the removal of the
      facility in the event that the use is abandoned or the permit expires, or is revoked, or is otherwise
      terminated. The security shall be in the amount equal to the cost of physically removing the facility
      and all related facilities and equipment on the site, based on the higher of two contractors’ quotes
      for removal that are provided by the permittee. The permittee shall reimburse the city for staff time
      associated with the processing and tracking of the bond, based on the hourly rate adopted by the
      City Council. Reimbursement shall be paid when the security is posted and during each
      administrative review. Any amounts due to the City under this HCC shall not exceed the amounts
      permitted under Applicable Law.

13.   Permittee shall not move, alter, temporarily relocate, change, or interfere with any existing
      structure, improvement, or property without the prior consent of the owner of that structure,
      improvement, or property. No structure, improvement, or property owned by the City shall be
      moved to accommodate a permitted activity or encroachment, unless the City determines that such
      movement will not adversely affect the City or any surrounding businesses or residents, and the
      Permittee pays all costs and expenses related to the relocation of the City's structure, improvement,
      or property. Prior to commencement of any work pursuant to any permit, the permittee shall
      provide the City with documentation establishing to the city’s satisfaction that the permittee has
      the legal right to use or interfere with any other structure, improvement, or property to be affected
      by the permittee’s facilities.

14.   No possessory interest is created by a Wireless Permit. However, to the extent that a possessory
      interest is deemed created by a governmental entity with taxation authority, permittee
      acknowledges that City has given to permittee notice pursuant to that the use or occupancy of any
      public property pursuant to a development or conditional use permit may create a possessory
      interest which may be subject to the payment of property taxes levied upon such interest. Permittee
      shall be solely liable for, and shall pay and discharge prior to delinquency, any and all possessory
      interact taxes or other taxes, fees, and assessments levied against permittee’s right to possession,
      occupancy, or use of any public property pursuant to any right of possession, occupancy, or use
      created by this development or conditional use permit.

15.   If a facility is not operated for a continuous period of six (6) months, the Wireless Permit and any
      other permit or approval therefor shall be deemed abandoned and terminated automatically, unless
      before the end of the six (6) month period
                 a. the Director has determined that the facility has resumed operations, or

                 b. the City has received an application to transfer the permit to another service provider.
                    No later than ninety (90) days from the date the facility is determined to have ceased
                    operation, or the permittee has notified the Director of its intent to vacate the site, the
                    permittee shall remove all equipment and improvements associated with the use and
                    shall restore the site to its original condition to the satisfaction of the Director. The
                    permittee shall provide written verification of the removal of the facilities within
                    thirty (30) days of the date the removal is completed. If the facility is not removed
                    within thirty (30) days after the permit has been discontinued pursuant to this
                    subsection, the site shall be deemed to be a nuisance, and the City may cause the
                    facility to be removed at permittee’s expense or by calling any bond or other financial
                    assurance to pay for removal. If there are two (2) or more users of a single facility or
                    support structure, then this provision shall apply to the specific elements or parts
                    thereof that were abandoned, but will not be effective for the entirety thereof until all
                    users cease use thereof. Once the facility is removed, and the City has confirmed the
                    space has been returned to its prior State, notwithstanding reasonable wear and tear,
                    the security described above shall be released by the City.

16.    In the event the City determines that it is necessary to take legal action to enforce any of these
       conditions, or to revoke a permit, and such legal action is taken, the permittee shall be required to
       pay any and all costs of such legal action, including reasonable attorney’s fees, incurred by the
       City, even if the matter is not prosecuted to a final judgment or is amicably resolved, unless the
       City otherwise agrees, in its complete discretion, to waive said fees or any part thereof.

D. Construction Conditions.

   1. Installation hours shall be limited to Monday through Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and
      Saturdays from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. No installation activities shall be permitted on Sundays and
      City-designated holidays. The restricted work hours described in this condition do not apply to
      emergency maintenance necessary to protect health or property. The City may issue a Stop Work
      Order if permittee violates this condition. Construction activities shall be conducted in compliance
      with and abide by all applicable safety codes and permit conditions.

   2. All sites must be designed and built to the standards of ANSI/APCO Public Safety Grade Site
      Hardening Requirements, also referred to as “APCO ANSI 2.106.1-2019”.

E. Site Specific Conditions.

   1. In the event that the electric service provider does not currently offer an alternative metering
      option, the permittee shall remove the above-grade electric meter when such option becomes
      available. Prior to removing the above-grade electric meter, the permittee shall apply for any
      encroachment and/or other ministerial permit(s) required to perform the removal. Upon removal,
      the permittee shall restore the affected area to its original condition that existed prior to installation
      of the equipment.

   2. The permittee acknowledges that the City specifically includes conditions of approval related to
     a. Painting, coloring or finishing the equipment to match the monopole or support structure;

     b. Undergrounding all equipment to the extent possible;

     c. Installing equipment within shrouds, conduits and risers as concealment elements engineered and
        designed to integrate the wireless facility with the surrounding built and natural environment; and

     d. Specific structural, seismic, electrical, fire and operating/maintenance requirements. Any future
        modifications to the permittee’s wireless facility must maintain or improve all concealment elements
        and safety precautions.

  3. Before the permittee submits any applications for construction, encroachment, excavation, or other
     required permits in connection with this permit, the permittee must incorporate a true and correct
     copy of this permit, all conditions associated with this permit, and any approved photo simulations
     into the project plans (collectively, the “Approved Plans”). The permittee must construct, install,
     and operate the wireless facility in substantial compliance with the Approved Plans as determined
     by the Director or the Director’s designee. Any substantial or material alterations, modifications
     or other changes to the Approved Plans, whether requested by the permittee or required by other
     departments or public agencies with jurisdiction over the wireless facility, must be submitted in a
     written request subject to the Director’s prior review and approval, who may refer the request to
     the original approval authority if the Director finds that the requested alteration, modification or
     other change substantially deviates from the Approved Plans or implicates a significant or
     substantial land-use concern.

4.   The permittee shall install and at all times maintain in good condition a “Network Operations
     Center Information” and “RF Caution” sign on the utility pole no less than three (3) feet below the
     antenna (measured from the top of the sign) and no less than nine (9) feet above the ground line
     (measured from the bottom of the sign). Signs required under this condition shall be installed so
     that a person can clearly see the sign as he or she approaches within three (3) feet of the antenna
     structure. If any person on or within the property is or may be exposed to emissions that exceed
     applicable FCC uncontrolled/general population limits at any time, the sign shall expressly so state
     and provide instructions on how persons can avoid any such exposure. The sign shall also include
     the name(s) of the facility owner(s), equipment owner(s), and operator(s)/carrier(s) of the
     antenna(s), property owner’s name, as well as emergency phone number(s) for all such parties.
     The sign shall not be illuminated unless Applicable Law, rule, or regulation requires lighting. No
     signs or advertising devices other than required certification, warning, required seals or signage,
     other signage required by law, this chapter, any City or applicable State code. The sign shall be no
     larger than two (2) square feet.

5.   The permittee shall ensure that all signage complies with FCC Office of Engineering and
     Technology Bulletin 65, or American National Standards Institute C95.2 for color, symbol, and
     content conventions. All such signage shall at all times provide a working local or toll-free
     telephone number to its network operations center, and such telephone number shall be able to
     reach a live person who can exert transmitter power-down control over this site as required by the
     FCC.

6.   In the event that the FCC changes any of radio frequency signage requirements that are applicable
     to the project site approved herein or ANSI Z535.1, ANSI Z535.2, and ANSI C95.2 standards that
     are applicable to the project site approved herein are changed, the permittee, within 30 days of
       each such change, at its own cost and expense, shall replace the signage at the project site to comply
       with the current standards.

 7.    The permittee shall maintain the paint, color, and finish of the facility in good condition at all
       times.

 8.    All improvements, including foundations and appurtenant ground wires, shall be removed from
       the property and the site restored to its original pre-installation conditions within ninety (90) days
       of cessation of operation or abandonment of the facility.

 9.    Permittee shall at all times maintain compliance with all applicable federal, State, and local laws,
       regulations, ordinances, and other rules, including Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
       requirements.

10.    The permittee shall cooperate with all inspections. The City and its designees reserve the right to
       support, repair, disable, or remove any elements of the facility in emergencies or when the facility
       threatens imminent harm to persons or property.

11.    Permittee shall at all times maintain accurate contact information for all parties responsible for the
       facility, which shall include a phone number, street mailing address, and email address for at least
       one natural person. All such contact information for responsible parties shall be provided to the
       Planning Department at the time of permit issuance and within one business day of permittee’s
       receipt of City staff’s written request.

12.    Permittee shall undertake all reasonable efforts to avoid undue adverse impacts to adjacent
       properties and/or uses that may arise from the construction, operation, maintenance, modification,
       and removal of the facility.

13.    The site and the facility must be maintained in a neat and clean manner and in accordance with all
       approved plans and conditions of approval.

14.    Permittee shall promptly remove any graffiti on the wireless facility at permittee’s sole expense
       within forty-eight (48) hours after notice.

F. Prior to Operation Conditions.

   1. The Applicant shall request a final Planning Department inspection and final building inspection
      by the City of Herriman immediately after the wireless facility has been installed and prior to the
      commencement of services.

   2. Within thirty (30) calendar days following the installation of any wireless communications
      facilities, the Applicant shall provide to the Planning Department a field report prepared by a
      qualified engineer, verifying that the unit has been inspected, evaluated, and is operating in
      compliance with FCC standards. Specifically, the on-site post-installation radiofrequency (RF)
      emissions testing must demonstrate actual compliance with the FCC OET Bulletin 65 RF
      emissions safety guidelines for the general population/uncontrolled RF exposure in all sectors. For
      this testing, the transmitter shall be operating at maximum operating power, and the testing shall
      occur outwards to a distance where the RF emissions no longer exceed the uncontrolled/general
      population limit. Such report and documentation shall include the make and model (or other
      identifying information) of the unit tested, the date and time of the inspection, a certification that
      the unit is properly installed and working within applicable FCC limits, and a specific notation of
       the distance from the transmitter at which the emissions are equal to or less than the
       uncontrolled/general population limit.

   3. The operation of the approved facility shall commence no later than one (1) month after the City
      completes its post-installation inspections of the facility, any issues with the facility are resolved,
      and the City receives the RF testing report required in the condition of approval above, or the
      development or conditional use permit will expire without further action by the City.

G. Fixed Conditions.

   1. Violation of any of the conditions of this approval shall be cause for revocation and termination
      of all rights thereunder.

10-35-10 Eligible Facilities Requests

A. Permits for an Eligible Facilities Request shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the underlying
   permit unless modified by the approving authority and provided further that such request shall be
   approved in accordance with Applicable Law.

   1. The City’s grant or grant by operation of law of an eligible facilities request permit constitutes a
      federally-mandated modification to the underlying permit or approval for the subject tower or base
      station. Notwithstanding any permit duration established in another permit condition, the City’s
      grant or grant by operation of law of an eligible facilities request permit will not extend the permit
      term for the underlying permit or any other underlying regulatory approval, and its term shall be
      coterminous with the underlying permit or other regulatory approval for the subject tower or base
      station.

   2. The City’s grant or grant by operation of law of an eligible facilities request does not waive, and
      shall not be construed to waive, any standing by the City to challenge section 6409(a) of the
      Spectrum Act, any FCC rules that interpret section 6409(a) of the Spectrum Act, or any
      modification to section 6409(a) of the Spectrum Act.

10-35-11 Small Cell Facilities
In addition to the other conditions of approval placed on a Wireless Permit, all permits for a small cell
facility under this chapter shall be subject to the additional condition, unless modified by the approving
authority, that the City’s grant of a permit for a small cell facility request does not waive, and shall not be
construed to waive, any standing by the City to challenge any FCC orders or rules related to small cell
facilities, or any modification to those FCC orders or rules.

10-35-12 Basic Application Requirements for Permits.

Generally. In addition to providing all required fees, all wireless telecommunication facility carriers or
   providers shall provide the information required by a separate application form published and updated
   from time to time by the City. If no such form is available, then the Applicant must submit all
   documents, information, and any other materials necessary to allow the City to make required findings
   and ensure that the proposed facility will comply with Applicable Laws and not endanger the public
   health, safety, or welfare. Such information may include:

  A. Contact information for:

       1. Applicant and their representatives
       2. Owner of proposed wireless communications facility

       3. If different from facility owner, the identity of the person or entity responsible for operating
       the proposed wireless facility

       4. The property owner or owner of the structure on which the proposed wireless facility would be
       installed

       5. Names, addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of anyone acting on behalf of the
       Applicant with regard to the application;

       6. The name, address, and phone number of all persons that prepared or assisted in preparing the
       application and any required reports;

       7. The postal address, parcel number, or utility pole identifier of the property;

       8. The location of the schools, playgrounds, and parks within 500 feet of the project site;

       9. Local contact person for emergencies

       10. Assessor’s Parcel Number

B) Purpose of new wireless communications facility or amendment

C) Type of Application (select all that apply)

       1. Eligible Facilities Request

       2. Small Cell – Collocation

       3. Small Cell – New Structure

       4. Collocation (Non-Small Cell)

       5. All Other Wireless Communications Facilities

       6. Permit Renewal

       7. Waiver

D) Letter of authorization signed by the property owner authorizing the Applicant to submit and process
   the application, including executed copies of any leases, letters of agency, or proof of ownership of
   the private property involved in the project.

E) Authorizations and Licenses

F) Provide previous approvals, if applicable, and Certificate of Completion. Site inspection fees may
   apply if a final inspection was never requested.
G) Identify all other required permits and approvals for the subject facility.

H) Electrical and Structural Safety Information. The following engineering documents must be included
   in the application:

          1. A one-line diagram of the electrical system;

          2. Panel Directories;

          3. A plot plan showing the location of the mounting structure, including address, or structure
              designation, or GPS location on the front sheet;

          4. A plot plan showing the location of the service disconnecting means;

          5. An elevation drawing of the equipment and the service disconnecting means;

I) Structural Safety Information. The structural or civil engineering documents, as recommended by a
   Utah licensed professional civil engineer, shall include:

          1. Photo simulations, from at least three different angles, showing the pole and streetscape
             before and after installation. In some cases, more than three different angles may be
             required;
          2. The azimuth, size, and center-line height location of all proposed and existing antenna(s)
             on the supporting structure;
          3. The number, type, and model of the antenna(s) that will be used, with a copy of the
             specification sheet;
          4. The make, model, type, and manufacturer of any tower involved, and a design plan stating
             the tower’s capacity to accommodate multiple users;
          5. Site and Construction Plans. Complete and accurate plans, drawn to scale, signed, and
             sealed by a Utah-licensed engineer, land surveyor, and/or architect, which include the
             following items.
                          a. A site plan and elevation drawings for the facility, as existing and as
                             proposed, with all height and width measurements explicitly stated.

                           b. A site plan describing the proposed tower and antenna(s) and all related
                              fixtures, structures, appurtenances, and apparatus, including height above
                              pre-existing grade, materials, color, and lighting.

                           c. A depiction, with height and width measurements explicitly stated, of all
                              existing and proposed transmission equipment.

                           d. A depiction of all existing and proposed utility runs and points of contact.

                           e. A depiction of the leased or licensed area of the site with all rights-of-way
                              and easements for access and utilities labeled in plain view.

       6. If the equipment is proposed to be pole-mounted, a signed affidavit by a licensed and
          registered engineer stating that such equipment could not be installed underground to the
          extent possible, and if any of the equipment can be located underground, that such equipment
          will be placed underground in a waterproof vault, or an explanation indicating it is not
          possible;
7. Description as to why the desired location is superior to other similar available locations,
    including, but not limited to:
    a) Proximity to residential buildings and descriptions of efforts to prevent any blocking of
         or mitigate the impact on views of impressive scenes;
    b) Written documentation demonstrating a good faith effort to locate the proposed facility in
         the least intrusive location in accordance with the location requirements of this ordinance;
8. A description in writing and a visual rendering demonstrating effective screening of all
    ground-mounted or roof-mounted equipment of the facility from view.
9. Color-coded carrier-generated RF Coverage (propagation) maps, at a scale no smaller than 1
    inch (1”) to a quarter (1/4) mile, with all appropriate legends, showing the coverage for the
    highest and lowest frequencies to be used by the facility. Frequencies are to be stated
    numerically, not qualitatively. Provide a represented value in dB of each color it specifically
    represents.
10. If the project involves, modifies, or will use an existing facility or structure, a description of
    the type of structure (e.g., guyed, self-supporting lattice, or monopole) and a report on the
    physical condition of the facility, certified by a professional engineer licensed in the State of
    Utah, is required.
11. If the application is for a new tower, substantial technical evidence by a carrier or wireless
    service provider justifying the total height of the proposed facility and the need for such to
    the exclusion of all reasonable alternatives. Evidence in the form of propagation studies must
    include all modeling data and assumptions used to produce the studies at the requested height
    and should take into consideration the ability to collocate other carriers in the future.
12. A siting analysis that identifies other feasible locations, including collocation sites, within or
    outside the City, which could provide comparable service in the area intended to be served by
    the facility, if any.
13. If the Applicant is not itself an FCC-authorized provider of personal wireless service
    intending to use the facility to provide its own personal wireless services, the application
    shall provide the name(s) of all providers that do intend to immediately use the facility, and
    include exhibits of any commitments by such provider(s).
14. An affirmation that the proposed installation will be FCC compliant, in that it will not cause
    members of the general public to be exposed to RF levels that exceed the emissions levels
    deemed safe by the FCC. A copy of the fully completed FCC form “A Local Government
    Official’s Guide to Transmitting Antenna RF Emission Safety: Rules, Procedures, and
    Practical Guidance: Appendix A” titled “Optional Checklist for Determination of Whether a
    Facility is Categorically Excluded” for each frequency band of RF emissions to be
    transmitted from the proposed facility upon the approval of the application. All planned radio
    frequency emissions on all frequency bands must be shown on the Appendix A form(s)
    attached to the application. All planned radio frequency emissions are to be entered on each
    Appendix A form only in wattage units of “effective radiated power.”
15. A statement detailing the frequency, modulation, and class of service of radio or other
    transmitting equipment;
16. A copy of the FCC license applicable to the intended use of the proposed facilities;
17. A Hazardous Materials Business Plan for all new generators, and any storage and/or use of
    hazardous materials during the project, to include:

           a. A list of toxic substances that may develop during arcing or fire that may
              impede fire suppression efforts;
                            b. A list of hazards that may develop during arcing or fire that may impede
                               fire suppression efforts;

            18. A demolition plan, if applicable.

            19. A written statement of the Applicant’s willingness to allow other carriers to collocate on the
                proposed personal wireless service facility where technically and economically feasible and
                aesthetically desirable, subject to the qualification that collocation should not occur when
                public exposures from the resulting higher cumulative sources would exceed FCC limits.
            20. Such other information as the Director shall establish.
            21. A statement signed by a person with legal authority to bind the Applicant attesting to the
                accuracy of the information provided in the application. If the attester is not an authorized
                employee of the Applicant, then the attester must demonstrate that it is an authorized agent of
                the Applicant, with a lawful Power of Attorney from the Applicant.

10-35-13 Processing of Applications
The City shall process applications submitted under this provision within the time required by Applicable
Law, and, to the extent the application is for a permitted or conditional use as identified in HCC Section
10-16-1, approve or deny such applications pursuant to the applicable standards of HCC Chapter 10-5
within the time required by Applicable Law, subject to any mutual agreements to extend such time limits.
Table 10-16-1 Uses

Uses1                                     Zones
                                                                     R-1-10
                                                                              R-1-15
                                                                                       R-1-21
                                                                                                R-1-43
                                                                                                         R-2-10
                                                                                                                  R-2-15
                                          A-1-10
                                                   A-1-21
                                                            A-1-43




                                                                                                                                                                                            ASMD
                                                                                                                                                                                    M U-2
                                                                                                                                 FR2
                                                                                                                           R-M




                                                                                                                                                                               MU
                                                                                                                                                                   T-M
                                                                                                                                                             M-1


                                                                                                                                                                         M-2
                                                                                                                                            OP
                                                                                                                                       RC


                                                                                                                                                 C-1
                                                                                                                                                       C-2
Public and Civic
Utility, major                              C       C        C        C        C        C        C        C        C       C     C               C     C     C     C     C           C
Utility substation                          C       C        C        C        C        C        C        C        C       C     C     C    C    C     C     C     C     C     C     C
Commercial
    Wireless telecommunication facility41 C         C        C        C        C        C        C        C        C       C     C          C    C     C P C C P C C42 P C42

Notes:
1    Accessory uses are allowed in all zones, but only if incidental to a permitted or conditional use.
41 Must be located on public or quasi-public owned property or utility site, and not in public parks unless an exception is granted by the

     planning commission, subject to HCC 10-29-8, or permitted on private non-residential property subject to HCC 10-35.
42 Maximum height of 50 feet and designed as a stealth facility.



10-29-8 Antenna—Monopole on Public or Quasi Public Property
In addition to the other provisions of this title, monopoles are allowed in the zones in which they are
listed, subject to the provisions set forth in this section:

A. Monopoles shall be constructed so as to allow a collocation of a second user on the base or original pole.
B. The height of the pole shall be limited to 50 feet above grade, unless approved by the planning
   commission for a greater height, but in no case greater than 100 feet above grade.
C. The distance between a monopole and a residential structure shall be at least 150 feet unless the
   planning commission determines a greater distance is necessary to meet the requirements for
   approval of a conditional use permit, when the monopole is authorized as a conditional use.
D. The applicant shall submit images or drawings of a proposed monopole to show what it will look
   like when built. The images or drawings shall show two vantage points as determined by the
   community development director.
E. Property owners within 600 feet of a monopole shall be given notice of the public meeting before the
   planning commission to consider approval of a conditional use permit.
F. Every effort should be made to keep a monopole 100 feet from a public street.
G. Each telecommunication company requesting a monopole shall submit a general master plan of the
   proposed number of poles projected within the city limits over the subsequent three years.
H. A monopole and the site the pole occupies shall be properly maintained. The pole shall be removed
   within 60 days after the communications use is discontinued.
