HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-05

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 1 OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE TO REMOVE AND AMEND
SECTIONS OF CHAPTER 1-10 RELATING TO PROCUREMENT AND MODIFYING CHAPTER 1-10-3,
RESPONSIBILITY FOR BUDGETARY COMPLIANCE

WHEREAS, the Herriman City Council (the “Council”) met in regular session on February
12, 2025, to consider, among other tings, an ordinance amending Title 1 of the Herriman City Code
in respect to procurement and responsibility for budgetary compliance; and

WHEREAS, the amendment updates and changes various rules and regulations for the
City’s procurement process and budgetary compliance requirements; and

WHEREAS, the Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of the City of
Herriman to adopt amendments to Title 1 of Herriman City Code.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Council as follows:

A. Title 1 of the Herriman City Code be amended as set forth in the attached Exhibit
A. All other sections and provisions of Title 1 shall be unaffected by this amendment.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No 25-05, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s
recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED BY THE Council of Herriman, Utah, this 12" day of February
2025.

HERRIMAN CITY COUNCIL

ATTEST:

Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2025-05
SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 1 OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE TO
REMOVE AND AMND SECTIONS OF CHAPTER 1-10 RELATING TO PROCUREMENT AND
MODIFYING CHAPTER 1-10-3, RESPONSIBILITY FOR BUDGETARY COMPLIANCE

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER

Lorin Palmer

Jared Henderson X

Teddy Hodges

Sherrie Ohrn

al |] ML | OM

Steven Shields Xx

TOTALS 5

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 12™ day
of February 2025, on a roll call vote as described above.

Exhibit A

The following excerpt from Herriman City Code has been selected to provide context for the
intended amendments. Only the strike-through and underline portions of the text are
amended by this Ordinance. All other regulations contained within Title 1 of the Herriman
City Code shall remain in effect.

CHAPTER 1-10 FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION

1-10-1: Scope

1-10-2: Definitions

1-10-3: Responsibility For Budgetary Compliance

1-10-4: Acquisition Of Nonprofessional Services, Equipment, And Supplies Of Less Than
Forty Thousand Dollars

Thousand Dollars Or More
1-10-6: Acquisition Of Professional S

rvices

1-10-7: Emergency Acquisitions

1-10-8: Conditions Of Acceptance

1-10-9: Protest

1-10-10: Petty Cash Accounts

1-10-11; Payment Of Routine Expenditures
1-10-12: Payment Of Payroll Obligations

1-10-13: Payments To Be Made From Bond Proceeds
1-10-14: Disposal Of Surplus Property

1-10-15: Disposal Of Parcels Of Real Property
1-10-16: Administrative Regulations And Policies
1-10-17: Claims

1-10-18: Sanctions

1-10-19: Grants

1-10-1: Scope

1. This chapter shall, except where otherwise noted, govern the acquisition and
disposal of property, whether real or personal, owned by the City.

2. No purchases shall be made and no encumbrances shall be incurred for the benefit
of the City except as provided in this chapter.

3. No purchase shall be made and no encumbrance shall be incurred unless funds
sufficient to cover the purchase or encumbrance have been budgeted, and are
available within the department's approved budget.

4. Notwithstanding the provisions above; wheneverany purchase orencumbranceis
reguiations- are in-conflictwith this chapterto the extent that fottowing the
provisions ofthis chapter woutd jeopardize the tise of those State or Federatfunds;
such conftieting provisions of this chapter shatt not appty andthe Gity officiats
making steh-purehases shattottow the procedtre required-by the State -orFederat

1-10-2: Definitions

Unless the context requires otherwise, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:

ASSISTANT CITY MANAGER: The individual appointed by the City Manager with the advice
and consent of the City Council.

BUDGET OFFICER: The individual appointed by the City Council who is responsible for
preparing and tracking the yearly budget and shall perform the duties of the Budget Officer
as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-6-101 et seq., as amended.

CITY MANAGER: The individual appointed by the City Council.

DEPARTMENT: The organizational structure of an administrative branch of City government
which groups a broad classification of similar functions, services, and duties.

DIRECTOR: The person appointed by the City Manager to administer, direct, control,
organize, and manage a department.

DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: The individual responsible for general accounting for the City and
shall perform the duties of the Director of Finance as set forth in Utah Code Annotated
section 10-6-101 et seq., as amended. The Director of Finance may not assume the duties
of the City Treasurer.

ENCUMBRANCE: An obligation of the City.

INVIAHON-FOR-BIBS: Soticitationtinetuding soliciting documents) of competitive seated
bids-for-procurement-of nonprofessionat services, equipment; and suppties: Aminnvitation
forbids shouted be used as determined by the City when the Gity is capable of specificatty
defining the-scope- of work for whieh the services; suppties, and equipment are required-or

he-Citv bte-of blishi : Hieati cnine-tt
. , st —
NONPROFESSIONAL SERVICES: Services other than professional services.

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES: Professionatand-otherskitted services sueh as auditing;

architecture; engineering, surveying, appraisats tegat service; or counseting, sought or
obtainedfrom sources -otherthantregutar- City emptoyeesLabor, effort, or work that requires

an elevated degree of specialized knowledge and discretion, including but not limited to
labor, effort, or work in the field of: Accounting, architecture, artistic endeavors,
construction design and management, engineering, financial services, information
technology, insurance, law, lobbying, medicine, mental health services, underwriting, and
software.

DR ee ee

SUPPLIES: Any and all tangible articles or things, materials, or equipment which shall be
furnished to or used by any City department or employee within the scope of his
employment with the City. (Ord. 2018-21, 5-9-2018)

PROCUREMENT: Buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, leasing with an option to purchase,
or otherwise acquiring any supplies, services or construction.

-10-3: Responsibility For Budgetary Compliance

1. The City Manager, and Assistant City Manager are not authorized to acquire
nonprofessional services and supplies or building improvements or professional
services unless such expenditures conform with the approved budget and other
requirements of the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for Utah Cities.

2. The City Manager, and-Assistant City Manager, or designee shall give a detailed
department and fund financial report to the City Council at least on a quarterly
basis.


3. The City shall indemnify the City Manager, and Assistant City Manager against all
claims brought against himthem by reason of a Director incurring expenditures in
excess of the approved budget.

4. Approval of a budget by the City Council that includes an amount for acquisition of
nonprofessional services, equipment, and supplies or building improvements or
professional services constitutes authorization to acquire and to make payments for
such, provided the nonprofessional services, equipment, and supplies, building
improvements, or professional services are acquired as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-25A, 8-12-2015)

1-10-4: Procurement

0@:—All procurement on behalf of the city shall be conducted in accordance with the
rules and regulations adopted by the city council, as amended from time to time.



i Ledeacwe ;





1. Petty cash accounts may be established in such amounts as are determined by the
City Manager, or Assistant City Manager. The City's petty cash accounts shall be
administered by the Director of Finance. The City Manager, or Assistant City
Manager may authorize using such petty cash funds to purchase supplies,
materials, and equipment or pay reimbursements when the cost thereof does not
exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) and when documentation of the purchase is

maintained. Supplies, materials, and equipment regularly purchased and available
through the City's regular purchasing channels shall not be purchased using said
petty cash funds.

2. The Director of Finance or designee shall reconcile the petty cash funds at least
monthly.

3. The Director of Finance may authorize a variance to exceed the fifty dollar ($50.00)
limitation outlined above. However, such variance shall not exceed one hundred
dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 2015-25A, 8-12-2015)

1-10-11: Payment Of Routine Expenditures

Notwithstanding the above, the Director of Finance is authorized to approve payments for
routine expenditures such as utility bills, leases, and payroll related expenses. The Director
of Finance is authorized to approve payments for supplies, equipment, nonprofessional
and professional services, and payments on City approved contracts. (Ord. 2015-25A, 8-
12-2015)

1-10-12: Payment Of Payroll Obligations

Notwithstanding the above, the Director of Finance is authorized to approve payroll checks,
if the checks are prepared in accordance with a salary schedule established by the
approved budget. (Ord. 2015-25A, 8-12-2015)

1-10-13: Payments To Be Made From Bond Proceeds

Payments made from proceeds of any bond for any expenditures shall only be paid for
expenditures contemplated by the bond. (Ord. 2015-25A, 8-12-2015)

1-10-14: Disposal Of Surplus Property

1. No City owned property, except property that is consumed in normal operations,
shall be disposed of or released to ownership by anyone other than the City Council,
except as provided in this section.

2. Whenever property is surplus, unused, obsolete, unsuitable, or otherwise no longer
needed and the estimated reasonable value of the property is ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) or less, the City Manager, or Designee may declare the property
surplus and shall either establish a minimum bid for the sale of such property or
declare that the property is of nominal value. If the City Manager, or Designee has
declared the property to be surplus and established a minimum bid, then such
property may only be sold for an amount equal to or more than the minimum bid
based on the highest and best economic return to the city. If the City Manager, or

Designee has declared the property to be surplus and declared that the property is
of nominal value, then such property may be disposed of as determined by the City
Manager, or Designee.

. Whenever city property is surplus, unused, obsolete, unsuitable or otherwise no
longer needed and the estimated reasonable value is more than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00), the director or department manager having control of such
property shall promptly so notify the City Manager, or Designee. The City Manager,

or Designee then shall notify other city departments of the availability of such
property. The City Manager, or Designee shall supervise the transfer of such property
to the department requesting the property. If no use can be made or can be
expected to be made within the reasonably foreseeable future, the property shall be
disposed of in accordance with subsections D, E, F, and G of this section. (Ord.
2015-25A, 8-12-2015)

. The City Manager, or Designee shall prepare and present a listing to the City Council
of all City owned real property which the City Manager feels is no longer needed by
the city and which can be declared surplus. The City Council may declare the
property surplus and authorize the City Manager to establish a base bid for the
property in accordance with this section. Valuation for real property shall be through
one of the following methods: 1) Appraisal by qualified appraiser, 2) Opinion of value
from competent real estate professional, or 3) if adjacent or nearby property has
been sold or listed, the city at its discretion may use that to set the minimum bid for
surplus property.

. The City Manager shall prepare and present a listing to the City Council of all city-
owned personal property that is no longer needed by the City along with estimated
values. The Council may declare the property surplus and authorize the City
Manager to establish minimum bids for said property. If the City Council has
declared the items to be surplus, then the City Manager, or Designee shall proceed
to sell such surplus property for an amount equal to or more than the minimum bid
based on the highest and best economic return to the city, except that consideration
for surplus property conveyed may be based on other public policy factors if the City
Council makes a determination, pursuant to its legislative authority, that the
consideration is adequate.

Unless the City Council has determined that consideration for the surplus property
shall be based on other public policy factors, the highest and best economic return
to the city, as referred to herein, shall be determined by one or more of the following
methods: 1) competitive bid/auction; 2) evaluation by a qualified and disinterested

appraiser(s); 3) other professional publication and valuation service; 4) an informal
market survey; 5) in the case of items of personal property possessing readily
discernible market value; or 6) some other method as directed by the City Council

7. Monetary proceeds from the sale or other disposition of such property pursuant to
this section shall be credited to the appropriate fund.

HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2023-04 on 2/8/2023

1-10-15: Disposal Of Parcels Of Real Property

1. Ifthe property that is declared surplus pursuant to section 1-10-14 of this chapter, is
a "significant parcel of real property" as defined in this section, then the city
manager, or assistant city manager shall provide "reasonable notice", as defined
below, of the proposed disposition, at least fourteen (14) days before the proposed
disposition, to provide the public an opportunity for comment on the proposed
disposition.

2. Ifthe city manager, or assistant city manager receives public comment on the
proposed disposition, the city manager or assistant city manager shall forward
copies of such public comment to the city council. Thereafter, the city council may
rescind its declaration of surplus property, direct the city manager, or assistant city
manager to proceed with the sale, or impose such additional terms and conditions
as the city council may adopt.

3. Ifthe city manager, or assistant city manager does not receive public comment on
the proposed disposition, the city manager, or assistant city manager may proceed
with the sale after satisfying all of the other terms and conditions applicable to the
disposition.

4. For purposes of this section:

DISPOSITION: To transfer control of city owned property to another by any means
including, but not limited to, sale, lease, or other type of conveyance of such

property.
REASONABLE NOTICE: Posting notice of the proposed disposition in at least three

(3) public places within the city and publishing notice of the proposed disposition in
a newspaper of general circulation in the city.

SIGNIFICANT PARCEL OF REAL PROPERTY: A parcel of real property owned by the

city with a reasonable value equal to or greater than two hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($250,000.00) or reasonable yearly rental value equal to or greater than fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00). (Ord. 2015-25A, 8-12-2015)

1-10-16: Administrative Regulations And Policies

The city manager, or assistant city manager may prescribe administrative regulations and
procedures, including property acquisition and disposal, which are consistent with the
provisions of this chapter and other written financial procedures. (Ord. 2015-25A, 8-12-

2015)

1-10-17: Claims

1.

Whenever payment is requested from the city that is not provided for by contract,
purchase order, service request, check requisition or other requisition process
described in these rules, the payment shall be processed as a claim under this
provision.

The city manager, or assistant city manager shall review all claims for services,
supplies, and equipment.

The city manager, or assistant city manager shall report the results of his review and
determination to the city council.

All claims for services, supplies, and equipment must describe in detail the basis
for the claim including the following: names, dates, services, supplies, and
equipment rendered, and to whom the services, supplies, and equipment were
furnished.

All claims must be presented to the city within one year of the last date that the
services, supplies, and equipment subject to claim were rendered or provided. If the
city manager, or assistant city manager rejects a claim because it is not properly
made out, the city shall give written notice to the claimant or agent and allowa
reasonable time for clarification or further itemization or substantiation. Further
time allowed hereunder shall toll the one year limitations but not to exceed thirty
(30) days from the date of the city's written notice. (Ord. 2015-25A, 8-12-2015)

1-10-18: Sanctions

1.

Itis unlawful:

1. For any bidder or prospective bidder, or any city employee or city officer
thereof, in restraint of freedom of competition or otherwise, by agreement

with any other person, bidder, or prospective bidder, to bid a fixed price, or to
“rotate” bidding practices among competitors;

2. For any person to offer or to give to any employee of the city or any member
of his immediate family, any gain, whether in the form of money, services,
loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, promise, or other form, under
circumstances in which it could reasonably be intended to influence him or
could reasonably be expected to influence him in his duties concerning the
award of any contract or order of purchase, or for any city employee to
directly or indirectly solicit or directly or indirectly accept any such gift for
such purpose;

3. For any city employee or city officer to disclose, in advance of the opening of
the bids, the content of any bid invited through the formal competitive
bidding procedure;

4. For any city employee or city officer to actively participate in the awarding of
a contract from which he will directly benefit; and

5. For any city employee or city officer or other person to appropriate for
personal or private use any item of public property.

2. Any city employee or city officer committing any of the foregoing acts may be
discharged or suspended from employment, and the city may seek additional
appropriate legal redress.

3. Atthe discretion of the city council, the following contracts are voidable:

1. Contracts which result from a conflict of interest under this chapter or other
applicable law;

2. Contracts awarded to a person or firm that tried to influence the award of
such contract by offering something of value to any city officer or city
employee; and

3. Contracts awarded by a city officer or city employee circumventing the
requirement of this chapter or other applicable statute.

The city council hereby declares its intent that such contracts would not have been entered
into on behalf of the city if such misconduct had been discovered prior to the execution of
the contract. In this regard, the council further states that no city officer or city employee
has authority, either actual, apparent or implied, to negotiate or execute any such contract
and that such contract shall, at the discretion of the city council, be voidable, unless the

action of the city officers or city employees in executing the contract is ratified by
affirmative action of the city council after the misconduct was discovered and made known
to the city council.

4. All persons or firms responsible for any misconduct prohibited by this section shall
be liable to the city for any losses incurred by the city resulting from any contract
awarded due to such misconduct. (Ord. 2015-25A, 8-12-2015)

1-10-19: Grants

Any grant application that anticipates or proposes to bind the city to a particular project or
contract or commit the city financially, directly or indirectly, either by liability for cash
payment or matching funds, or for in-kind or noncash credit, shall be submitted as part of
the annual budget or approved in advance by resolution of the city council. Allsuch
requests shall include full disclosure of the terms and conditions of the grant and the
purpose and use of the grant. Any grant that attempts to bind the city that is filed without an
annual budget appropriation or a resolution from the city council shall be void and without
authority. (Ord. 2015-25A, 8-12-2015)

