HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-20

AMENDING TITLE 10 OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE TO MODIFY DEFINITIONS
AND LAND USE REGULATIONS AFFILIATED WITH RETAINING WALLS

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to Utah State Code, may adopt an ordinance
to establish land development regulations (“Zoning”), which includes the adoption or amendment
of the regulatory text or official map; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission (the “Commission’”)
shall prepare and recommend any Zoning amendments to the City Council (the “Council”); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Commission
shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days prior to the said
public hearing to recommend any Zoning text amendments to the Council; and

WHEREAS, a notice of a Planning Commission public hearing on a Zoning text
amendment was posted in three (3) public locations and mailed to affected entities on July 3, 2025,
for a meeting to be held on July 16, 2025, at 7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Commission voted 4-2 to recommend approval of the Zoning text
amendment in a public meeting held on July 16, 2025, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council Chamber;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the Council to
consider the Zoning text amendment and the Commission’s recommendation in a public meeting;
and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on September 10, 2025, at 7:00 p.m.
to discuss the Zoning text amendment; and

WHEREAS, the Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman City
to adopt the Zoning text amendment, which was recommended by the Planning Commission and
documented in City File number 72025-087;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council for approval to amend
the Herriman City Land Development Code, Title 10, as described in Exhibit “A”.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2025-20, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City Recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this. 10" day of September 2025.

HERRIMAN CITY

An. KW
ATTEST: Maver Yi Palmer —

h, City Recorder


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2025-20
SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10 OF THE HERRIMAN CITY CODE
TO MODIFY DEFINITIONS AND LAND USE REGULATIONS AFFILIATED WITH
RETAINING WALLS

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
Lorin Palmer x
Terrah Anderson X
Jared Henderson x xX
Teddy Hodges Absent
Sherrie Ohrn X

TT

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 10 day of
September 2025, on a roll call vote as described above.

Exhibit “A”

The following text comprises excerpts from various sections of the Herriman City Code, providing context
for the Ordinance. Only the text marked by an underline or strike-through shall be amended by the codifier.

Herriman City Code
Title 10 Land Development Code

10-3-5: Definitions, Generally

Finished grade means (i) the ground surface elevation of the undisturbed natural topography, (ii) the
elevation established through grading in accordance with a subdivision approval, or (ili) a grading permit
approved by the City in a non-residential zone.

Grade means the

se bedi, Withee e neag Oe a cae an ae bent ae ground surface elevation

immediately adjoining the exterior wall of a building. Unless otherwise specified, “grade” shall mean the
finished grade.

Grade plane means a reference plane representing the average of the lowest and highest points of elevation
of the finished grade within the area between the building and (a) the lot line. where the lot line is located
six (6) feet or less from the building. or (b) a point six (6) feet from the building, where the lot line is
located more than six (6) feet from the building. The measurement shall exclude depressions caused by
window wells, basement stairwells, or similar below-grade features, except for garages.

Height measurement means the established method for measuring building height, as described in See
HCC 10-29-25.

Height, fence, means the vertical distance from the ground to the top of a fence panel (portion of fence
between the fence poles or supports). Fence height excludes minimal fence poles or supports that extend
no higher than six inches above the fence panel.

Height, hub, when referring to a wind turbine, means the distance measured from ground level to the
center of the turbine hub.

Height, total, when referring to a wind turbine, means the distance measured from ground level to the
blade extended at its highest point.

Height, tower, when referring to a wind turbine, means the distance measured from ground level to the
top of the tower, not including the blades.

Retaining wall means any structure designed to resist the lateral displacement of soil or other materials.
Examples include block walls, rock walls (i.e., rockeries), concrete walls, and segmented walls. Retaining
walls that have an unbalanced load of less than four (4) feet in height are generally considered landscaping
elements. A retaining wall is not considered _a fence.

Subdivision wall means a retaining wall or rockery installed during the initial grading of a subdivision.
Subdivision walls shall be constructed as shown on grading plans approved by the City Engineer during
final subdivision plat review and approval. Subdivision walls may cross lot lines and be installed along
boundary lines in areas where the soil would not naturally retain itself, such as steep slopes with a
horizontal-to-vertical ratio exceeding two-to-one (2:1), or near-vertical or vertical slopes.

Surcharge means an additional load or weight applied to the soil behind a retaining structure or excavation,
beyond the weight of the retained soil itself. Examples of surcharges, or additional loads beyond the self-
weight of soil, include stockpiled materials, traffic on roadways, nearby structures, and construction
equipment, all of which can increase lateral earth pressure _and_ necessitate reinforced engineering
solutions.

10-29-25 Height Measurement, Exceptions, and Limitations

A. Height measurement.

1. Building height shall be measured vertically from the established grade plane to the highest point
of the building or structure.

a. Where a rooftop is utilized as usable floor space, such as an uncovered rooftop deck or patio,
the highest point shall be measured to the top of a parapet wall, guardrail, or the highest point
of the building elevation.

b. The following structures shall not be included in determining building height: penthouses and
roof structures for elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans, or similar equipment required
to operate and maintain a building; fire or parapet walls; skylights; towers; steeples; flagpoles:
chimneys; smokestacks; water tanks: wireless or television masts; theater lofts; silos; and

similar structures.

-


: z : =] a3 94s P sc = . ce ca s < u w
+o
* . .

2. On sloped lots or buildings with varied floor elevations:
a. On sloped lots, the height of each building facade shall be measured _as the average of the
vertical distance between finished grade and the highest point of the building along that facade.
For the purpose of calculating the overall building height, the average height shall be
determined by averaging the heights of all sides of the building. Example: If the highest grade
point along the front facade results in a height of 25 feet and the lowest grade point results in
a height of 35 feet. the average height of that facade shall be 30 feet. The overall building
height shall then be calculated as the average of the facade heights on all sides of the building.

Building Height Measurement (Sloped Lot)

c

b. No single facade shall exceed 125% of the maximum height permitted in the zone, even if the
average height complies with the overall limit.

B. Unless an administrative interpretation permits or requires additional building elevation measurements
due to unusual or atypical architectural design, an applicant shall provide four (4) building elevation
measurements, one (1) for each building elevation.

C. Where uncertainty exists regarding finished grade or grade plane, the Community Development
Director shall establish the proper measurement based on the best available information.

D. Agricultural structures. Agricultural structures may have less than one story.

10-29-53 RETAINING WALLS

A. Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to establish regulations that control the use, permitting.
and construction of retaining walls in a manner that provides erosion control, slope stability. site
drainage, and mitigates secondary impacts to adjacent properties.

B. Applicability: This section applies to all "retaining walls" and “subdivision walls,” as defined in
section 10-3-5 of this title.

C. Permits: Applications shall be processed and issued in accordance with building permit procedures
and applicable provisions of this section. Building permit review fees will be assessed and
collected upon the submittal of the building permit application.

1. Building Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in subsection E. all retaining walls
with an unbalanced load of four (4) feet or greater require a building permit prior to
construction or alteration (see Figure 1). Retaining walls with an unbalanced load of less than


four (4) feet that are subject to a surcharge require a building permit. Any retaining wall, or
portion thereof, located within a public utility easement shall satisfy all requirements outlined
in §10-29-19 of this title.

yo SLs

— bp oy me

Unbalanced
Load

Figure 1

2. Building Permit Exemptions: Retaining walls that retain less than four (4) feet of unbalanced
fill (see Figure 1) and meet the criteria outlined below do not require a building permit.
However, any retaining wall that supports a surcharge or requires engineering design, as
specified in Section R404.4 (Retaining Walls) of the International Residential Code (IRC),
requires a building permit.

a. The front and back slopes of a retaining wall shall not be steeper than a horizontal-to-
vertical ratio exceeding two-to-one (2H:1V). See Figure 2.

b. Tiered retaining walls with an unbalanced load of less than four feet (4') per wall, and have
front_and back slopes from each wall no steeper than or equal to a horizontal-to-vertical
ratio exceeding two-to-one (2H:1V), and have a horizontal separation that is twice the
height of the unbalanced load (2S:1H). See Figure 3.

Fe as)
Y)
F t
e T
_ in
Figure 2 Figure 3

c. A building permit shall be required if the horizontal spacing of the retaining wall is less
than 2S:1H or in any instance where a surcharge cannot be mitigated through the horizontal
spacing of a retaining wall.

d. A retaining wall with an unbalanced load of less than four (4) feet located within a public
utility easement shall satisfy all requirements outlined in §10-29-19 of this title.


D. Location: Retaining walls with an unbalanced load of four (4) feet or greater shall not be placed in

the following areas:

1. Within a public utility easement (PUE) located along the front boundary line. or a rear or

exterior side boundary line adjacent to a street.

2. Within a PUE located along the rear or an interior lot line without satisfying all requirements

outlined in §10-29-19 of this title, and approved by the city engineer.

3. Within five (5) feet of a rear or interior lot line unless approved as part of a subdivision wall.

4. No portion of a retaining wall. including the footings and anchors, shall encroach into an

adjacent property without the written consent of the adjacent property owner.

E. Height: For the purposes of this subsection, the height of a retaining wall, excluding rockeries, is

measured as the exposed height (H) of the wall. The height of a rockery is measured from the

bottom of the footing, or base stone. to the top of the wall. Ifa retaining wall has a varying height

along its length, the height is the largest value of the measured height along the length of the wall.

1. Residential, Forestry Recreation, and Agricultural Zones

a.

b.

A single retaining wall shall not exceed ten (10) feet in height.

Within the front or corner yard setback areas facing a street, each retaining wall shall not
exceed four (4) feet in height.

Terracing of retaining walls is permitted, but the combined height of all walls shall not
exceed eighteen (18) feet. Walls with a separation distance of at least twice the height of
the tallest wall, measured from face of wall to face of wall, shall be considered as separate
walls. Within a terraced retaining wall group, a minimum horizontal separation of at least
half the height of the tallest wall within the group is required. The horizontal separation is
measured from the back of the lower wall to the face of the higher wall. See figure 4.

When a grade change of four (4) feet or greater is created by a proposed retaining wall
along the boundary of the subject property, fencing with a minimum height of three (3) feet
shall be installed along the boundary of the property where a grade change of four (4) feet
or more occurs.

Tiered wall terraces shall incorporate a minimum of five (5) shrubs per twenty (20) linear
feet or live plant material that provides 50 percent ground cover at maturity. Drip irrigation
shall be used, where applicable, to minimize erosion and maintain landscaping.

2. All other zones

A single retaining wall shall not exceed ten (10) feet in height, unless specifically modified
within an approved planned unit development or master development agreement.

Terracing of retaining walls is permitted. but the combined height of all walls shall not
exceed eighteen (18) feet. Walls with a separation distance of at least two times the height


of the tallest wall, measured from face of wall to face of wall, shall be considered as
separate walls. Within a terrace retaining wall group, a minimum horizontal separation of
at least half the height of the tallest wall in the group is required, Horizontal separation is
measured from the back of the lower wall to the face of the higher wall. See figure 4.

When a grade change of four (4) feet_or greater is created by a proposed retaining wall
along the boundary of the subject property, fencing with a minimum height of three (3) feet
shall be installed along the boundary of the property where a grade change of four (4) feet
or more occurs.

Tiered wall terraces shall incorporate a minimum of five (5) shrubs per twenty (20) linear
feet or live plant material which provides 50 percent ground cover at maturity. Drip
irrigation shall be used when applicable to minimize erosion and maintain landscaping.

Separate Walls Terraced Walls
separation |
ES
Separation at least
twice the value of u
the taltest wall. J .
separation

Separation at least
haif ihe value of
the tallest wall

Figure 4

F. Height and Location Exceptions: An exception may be granted by the City Engineer to place a

retaining wall within five (5) feet of a property line, or in a front or side yard public utility

easement. if the following conditions are met:

1.

The proposed retaining wall will restrain existing slopes along the boundaries of the site,

excluding front and side boundary lines adjacent to a street, that exceed a 3:1 slope and cannot

be naturally stabilized.

To secure a cut or retain soil to accommodate vehicular access or for the construction of a

home or detached structure.

The unbalanced load of the retaining wall placed within five (5) feet of the property line does

not exceed four (4) feet. However. the city engineer may grant an exception to the unbalanced

load maximum when:

a.

The slope along the boundary line cannot be retained in a single lift or cut of four (4) feet
or less:

Tiering would eliminate the side or rear yard and leave the property owner with a strip of
unusable yard space that is less than five (5) feet: or

The site is constrained in a manner that is not conducive to tiering due to topography or an
adjoining use.


6.

Placement of retaining wall shall not negatively impact any adjacent properties by limiting the
construction or placement of structures, parking areas. site work. landscaping. etc.. or create
an unsafe environment that cannot be mitigated through requirements outlined in this chapter.

Retaining walls constructed in a Hillside Overlay Zone shall comply with all regulations of
this section and the requirements outlined in §10-15(B) of this Title.

Rock walls, or rockeries, are not eligible for height exceptions.

G. Subdivision Walls: A retaining wall or rockery installed during the initial grading and development
of a subdivision. Submittals for subdivision walls shall occur at the time the pre-liminary plat is
submitted for the subdivision. Subdivision walls shall be reviewed and approved by city staff prior
to the recordation of the final plat.

1.

Subdivision walls are exempt from subsections F and I of this chapter but are subject to the
following requirements:

a. Rockeries shall not exceed an unbalanced load greater than nine (9) feet. Rockeries used
to restrain lifts or cuts greater than nine (9) feet in height shall be tiered with a minimum
horizontal separation of 2H:1V.

b. Block, concrete, or segmented retaining walls shall not exceed a height of 20 feet in a single
lift. Retaining walls exceeding the height of 20 feet shall be tiered. However, the city
engineer may grant additional height when necessary to minimize the width of a dedicated
public or private right-of-way.

c. Block. concrete. or segmented retaining walls greater than nine (9) feet in height shall
incorporate design features such as color bands, curves, and decorative top caps.

H. Engineering Design Required:

I.

1.

Ey

4.

All retaining walls that retain an unbalanced load of four (4) feet or greater are required to
obtain a building permit.

All retaining walls with an unbalanced load of four (4) feet or less. which hold a surcharge
such as parking areas and footings, are required to obtain a building permit.

Plans shall be designed by a geotechnical engineer licensed by the state of Utah.

Plans submitted must be stamped by the design engineer.

Submittals: The following documents and calculations prepared by a licensed engineer of the state

of Utah shall be submitted with each retaining wall building permit application:

1.

Profile drawings if the retaining wall is longer than fifty (50) linear feet. with the base
elevation. exposed base elevation. and top of wall labeled at the ends of the wall and every

fifty (50) linear feet or change in grade;

Cross-sectional drawings. including surface grades and structures located in front of and

behind the retaining wall. for a distance equivalent to three (3) times the height of the wall, and

if the wall is supporting a slope, then the cross section shall include the entire slope plus surface


grades and structures within a horizontal distance equivalent to one times the height of the

slope:

3. A site plan showing the location of the retaining walls with the base elevation, exposed base

elevation, and top of wall labeled at the ends of the wall and every fifty (50) linear feet or

change in grade:

4. Material strength parameters used in the design of the retaining wall. substantiated with

laboratory testing of the materials as follows:

a.

For soils, this may include, but is not limited to, unit weights, direct shear tests, triaxial
shear tests. and unconfined compression tests:

If laboratory testing was conducted using off-site soils in the area, the results of the testing
with similar soil classification testing must be submitted:

For segmented block walls. the manufacturer's test data for the wall facing, soil
reinforcement, and connection parameters shall be submitted in an appendix;

Minimum laboratory submittal requirements are the unit weight of retained soils, gradation

for cohesionless soils. Atterberg limits for cohesive soils, and shear test data:

Soil classification testing shall be submitted for all direct shear or triaxial shear tests:

If a Proctor is completed, classification testing shall be submitted with the Proctor result:
and

Laboratory testing shall be completed in accordance with applicable American Society for

Testing and Materials (ASTM) standards.

Inspections and Final Report: The design engineer shall conduct all necessary inspections for final

approval and acceptance of the retaining wall upon completion of construction. A final report from

the engineer shall confirm that the retaining wall was constructed in accordance with the submitted

design. The report shall include details of each required wall inspection. All pertinent compaction

testing results shall be included in the final report.

. Maintenance: It shall be the property owner’s responsibility to maintain all retaining walls on their

property in a manner that preserves the structural integrity, safety. drainage. and appearance of the

retaining walls.


