HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-21

AMEND MULTIPLE CHAPTERS IN TITLE 10 OF THE HERRIMAN CITY CODE
TO ADOPT THE CF COMMERCIAL FLEX ZONE
AND ASSOCIATED STANDARDS

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to Utah State Code, may adopt an ordinance
to establish land development regulations (“Zoning’’), which includes the adoption or amendment
of the regulatory text or official map; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission (the “Commission”)
shall prepare and recommend any Zoning amendments to the City Council (the “Council”); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Commission
shall hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days prior to the said
public hearing to recommend any Zoning text amendments to the Council; and

WHEREAS, a notice of a Planning Commission public hearing on a Zoning text
amendment was posted in three (3) public locations and mailed to affected entities on September
5, 2025, for a meeting to be held on September 17, 2025, at 7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Commission voted 5-1 to recommend approval of the Zoning text
amendment in a public meeting held on September 17, 2025, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council
Chamber; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the Council to
consider the Zoning text amendment and the Commission’s recommendation in a public meeting;
and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on October 8, 2025, at 7:00 p.m. to
discuss the Zoning text amendment; and

WHEREAS, the Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman City
to adopt the Zoning text amendment, which was recommended by the Planning Commission and
documented in City File number Z2025-121;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council for approval to amend
the Herriman City Land Development Code, Title 10, as described in Exhibit “A”.

This Ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 2025-21, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City Recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 8" day of October 2025.

HERRIMAN CITY

_——-
Coun

ATTEST: Mayor) érin Palmer

orate ¢
s? e
cP cor Pray, yy
Ss Y

PRRIMA


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2025-21
SHORT TITLE: AMEND MULTIPLE CHAPTERS IN TITLE 10 OF THE HERRIMAN
CITY CODE TO ADOPT THE CRF COMMERCIAL FLEX ZONE AND ASSOCIATED
STANDARDS

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME

MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER

Lorin Palmer

Terrah Anderson

Jared Henderson Xx

Teddy Hodges xX

Sherrie

~ 1K] mM] mM] OX

Ohrn

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 8" day of
October 2025, on a roll call vote as described above.

Exhibit “A”

The following text comprises excerpts from various sections of the Herriman City Code, providing context
for the Ordinance. Only the text marked by an underline or strike-through shall be amended by the codifier.

Herriman City Code
Title 10 Land Development Code

10-3-6 Land Use Categories Definitions

The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this title, shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:

D.

Commercial uses.

Assembly of goods means the process of putting together previously manufactured parts or sub-
assemblies into a finished item or unit.

Car detailing means the process of cleaning, refurbishing, and maintaining the interior and exterior of
vehicles to enhance their appearance and condition, focusing on the cosmetic care of vehicles, distinct
from mechanical repairs or routine maintenance.

Commissary means a licensed and approved commercial kitchen facility.

Drive-up_self-storage means fully enclosed individual storage units at ground level. allowing
customers to drive their vehicles directly up to the unit for easy loading and unloading.

Indoor self-storage means storage units located inside a building. offering protection from the
elements and potentially climate control. unlike outdoor storage units. These units are typically
accessed through hallways or corridors within the building, with options for first-floor or elevator
access.

Printing distribution means activities related to both printing and the distribution of printed materials.

Reselling means the retail sales of merchandise after the buying, selling, or trading of the merchandise.

CHAPTER 10-12 COMMERCIAL AND OFFICE ZONES

10-12-1 Purpose

A.

B.

C-] zone. The purpose of the C-1 zone is to provide areas in the city for neighborhood commercial
development.

C-2 zone. The purpose of the C-2 zone is to provide areas in the city for community commercial
development.

CF zone. The purpose of the CF zone is to provide areas in the city for a variety of commercial uses,
including warehousing, light manufacturing, entrepreneurship. reselling, and_retail. This zone is
intended to encourage commercial development in areas that may have limitations such as topography,
access, irregular shapes, and visibility from major corridors. This zone is intended to create areas in
the city where home occupation businesses can transition into a small commercial space, an option for


existing small businesses to expand in the city, and create a maker space where businesses can
collaborate with one another.

D. OP zone. The purpose of the OP zone is to provide an aesthetically attractive environment for business
offices with limited commercial use that cater to a business office complex. This zone is intended to
ensure compatibility of new development with surrounding land uses through standards that provide
attractive buildings, well-planned grounds and other appropriate amenities supporting employee
activity. Uses which produce noises, excessive vehicle traffic, excessive parking needs, objectionable
odors, storage of hazardous substances or the outside storage of inventory or equipment are not
appropriate in this zone.

10-12-4 Uses Allowed
D. Businesses and uses; conditions. The stores, shops or businesses designated in this chapter shall be
retail establishments only and shall be permitted only under the following conditions:

1. Such business shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building, except for the parking and

servicing of automobiles, and service to people in automobiles.

2. All products, whether primary or incidental, shall be sold at retail on the premises; no
entertainment, except music, shall be permitted in cafes, confectioneries or refreshment stands.
All uses shall be free from objection due to odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration, or other causes.
4. Any manufacturing shall be incidental to and operated in connection with a use permitted in this

chapter and shall be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building.

5. Limited wholesale and enclosed warehousing are allowed in the CF zone.
6. Drive-up and indoor self-storage are allowed as an accessory use in the CF zone.

a. The number of drive-up storage units shall not exceed the number of tenant spaces designated

as the primary use.
(1) Use of drive-up storage units shall be restricted to owners or lessees of the primary use
tenant space(s).

we

10-12-5 Development Approval

A. Generally. The use and development of land located in commercial and office zones shall be approved
according to applicable administration and development review procedures set forth in HCC chapter
10-5.

B. Site plan approval. Any development in commercial and professional office zones shall be subject to
approval of a site plan as provided in HCC 10-5-11.

C. Conditional use approval. The conditional use permit procedure set forth in HCC chapter 10-5 shall
be applied to the following:
1. C-1 zone. Development over 22,000 square feet.
2. C-2 zone. Development over 44.000 square feet.
3. CF zone. Development over 44,000 square feet.
4. OP zone. All development.

10-12-6 Development Standards
D. CF zone. Development in the CF zone shall conform to the following design criteria requirements in
addition to other applicable provisions of this title:
1. Building Materials: Buildings shall consist of durable materials.
a. The portion of building(s) facing public streets shall primarily consist of brick, stone, glazing.
glass, and/or architectural metal panels.


(1) All fasteners shall be installed to not be visible unless they are incorporated into the
architectural design of the building.

b. There shall be at least two texture or material changes of the building material for each side of
the building.

Building Massing and Form: Design shall consider angles. heights, and shapes to create visual

interest.

a. Balconies, overhangs, awnings, or other protruding elements shall be incorporated on walls
exceeding 40 feet of horizontal length.

The main or public entry for the building shall be visually distinct through the use of additional

massing, glazing, and/or design elements that allow tenants and customers to easily identify the

designated building entry point.

a. Enhanced lighting elements and fixtures may be used in conjunction with signage to help guide
the user to the building entrance.

Lighting: Any building or site lighting shall not extend into adjacent residential property.

Signing: A uniform plaque for tenants mounted to the exterior of the building wall is allowed.

a. The tenant’s logo and hours of operation are allowed to be on the entry door.

Fencing: All fencing shall comply with Chapter 10-21 of this code.

a. Gated access is allowed: however, parking for storefronts shall not be gated.
(1) All gated areas shall include acceptable access per the Fire Marshal.
(2) Gates may be made of wrought-iron and/or metal that complements the color of the

primary structure or architectural elements of the primary structure.

Parking: Parking shall generally comply with Chapter 10-24 of this code.

a. Parking for storefronts shall not be reserved for anyone except customers

b. Employee parking may be allowed in gated area(s).

Landscaping: All landscaping shall comply with Chapter 10-23 of this code

a. Portions of the site designated for deliveries may reduce required landscaping in the delivery
area to accommodate access for delivery vehicles and semi-trucks.

10-12-7 Other Applicable Regulations

To the extent that use and development of land located in commercial and office zones includes any matter governed
by other applicable regulations set forth in this title, such regulations shall apply in addition to the requirements of
this chapter.

CHART 10-12. COMMERCIAL AND OFFICE ZONE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

A. Minimum lot area and width.

Zone Lot Area Lot Width

C-1 None None

C-2 None, except as follows: None
Vehicle rental and sale: 2 acres

CF None None

OP None None


B. Minimum yard for all buildings.

Zone | Front Yard | Side Yard Rear Yard
C-1 | 20 feet None, except as follows: None, except as follows:
Side yard adjacent to agricultural or Rear yard adjacent to agricultural or
residential zone boundary: 20 feet residential zone boundary: 20 feet
Corner lot: 20 feet from street
C-2 | 20 feet None, when located adjacent to another | None, except as follows:
commercial use Corner lots which rear upon side yard of
Side yard adjacent to agricultural or lot in agricultural or residential zone:
residential zone boundary: 15 feet plus | Building height 35 feet or less: 20 feet
1 foot for every 1 foot of building Building height more than 35 feet: 30
height above 15 feet feet
Corner lot: 20 feet from street
CE 20 feet, None, except as follows: None, except as follows:
exceptas | Adjacent to agriculture or residential Adjacent to agricultural or residential
follows: zone boundary: 15 feet, plus 1 foot for | zone boundary: 30 feet, except for
10 feet every | foot of building height above _| accessory structures: 10 feet plus 1 foot
along a 15 feet. for every 1 foot of building height above
collector or 15 feet |
arterial
street
OP |25 feet Adjacent to residential use or zone: 2. _—_| Adjacent to residential use or zone: 2
feet for every 1 foot of building height | feet for every 1 foot of building height
Street side yard: 25 feet

' Exception. The Planning Commission may approve a 10-foot rear yard setback for buildings over 25 feet in height if the

building is adjacent on two sides to either collector or arterial roadways and/or adjacent topography results in the perceived

building height being less than the actual building height from the adjoining property.

C. Maximum building height.

Zone All Buildings

C-1 35 feet

C-2 45 feet

CF 35 feet for primary use !
OP 45 feet

' Exception. The Planning Commission may approve up to 45 feet for an accessory use based on the proximity to residential

development and site topography.

D. Lot coverage for all buildings.

Zone Maximum Coverage
C-1 60% of lot

C-2 60% of lot

CF 15%

OP None


10-15-7 Major Corridor Sign Overlay Zone

A. Purpose. The purpose of the Major Corridor Sign (MCS) Overlay zone is to provide additional
opportunities for signage along major corridors in the city. These corridors are typically state-owned
and include higher than normal traffic counts, and speeds than found on other city-owned streets and
corridors.

B. Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to all the following conditions:
1. All land zoned C-1, C-2, CF, M-1, M-2, MU, MU-2, OP, and AMSD, excluding area within the
SEMU Sports and Entertainment and VWU Village Mixed Use Overlay zones.
2. Have a minimum development frontage on a state-owned corridor of at least 500 feet.
3. Area which includes an overall commercial, mixed use, or manufacturing development of 20 8
contiguous acres minimum.

10-16-1 Table of Uses

Uses C-F

Assembly of Goods P
Car Detailing P
Commissary P
Construction sales and service P
Drive-up self-storage pss
Indoor self-storage ps
Media service

Medical or dental laboratory

Office, professional

Printing

Printing Distribution

Repair service

Research service

Reselling

Retail, general

secondhand store

Vehicle and equipment rental

UU) U0) U/U) U0!) Ul)U/]U0)/ U0; U0;/T;U

Vehicle repair, limited

VU
8

Warehouse, self service”

Wholesale and warehousing, limited

vU
8

>3 Indoor self-storage. and drive-up self-storage are allowed accessory uses to a primary permitted use.


