HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2026-04

AMENDING HERRIMAN CITY LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
REGARDING FENCE MATERIALS AND DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
AFFECTING ALL HERRIMAN CITY ZONING DISTRICTS

WHEREAS, the Herriman City Council (“Council”) met in regular session on February 11,
2026, to consider, among other things, an ordinance to amend Title 10 Land Development Code
(“Zoning Code”); and

WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-503 provides in part that the Council may make
amendments to the adopted Zoning Code; and

WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-503 also provides that the Council may not make any
amendment to its Zoning Code unless it is first submitted to the Planning Commission
(“Commission) for its recommendation; and

WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-503 provides that the Commission shall provide
notice as required by Subsection 10-9a-205(1)(a) and hold a public hearing on a proposed Zoning
Code amendment; and

WHEREAS, on January 9, 2026, the required public hearing notice was mailed to all
affected property owners and entities; and

WHEREAS, on January 9, 2026, the required public hearing notice was posted in three
public places within the City; and

WHEREAS, on January 21, 2026, at 7:00 PM in the Council Chambers, the Commission
held a required public hearing with respect to the proposed Zoning Code amendment; and

WHEREAS, on January 21, 2026, the Commission voted 5-1 to recommend approval of the
proposed Zoning Code amendment; and

WHEREAS, on February 11, 2026, the Council considered the proposed Zoning Code
amendment during a public meeting; and

WHEREAS, the Council finds that it is in the best interest of the residents of Herriman to
adopt the proposed Zoning Code amendment;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council for approval to amend
the Herriman City Land Development Code regarding fence material and development standards
affecting all Herriman City zoning districts as described in Exhibit “A”.

This Ordinance No. 2026-04 shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required
by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City’s recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 11" day of February 2026.
HERRIMAN

Le foo—

May6r-¥o rYorin Palmer

ATTEST:

ym City Recorder i)

HERRIMAN

yaily
So 1999 ~~

fe of vz


Herriman City
ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2026-04
SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE AMENDING HERRIMAN CITY CODE REGARDING
FENCING MATERIALS AND DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS AFFECTING ALL
HERRIMAN CITY ZONING DISTRICTS

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
Lorin Palmer x
Terrah Anderson X xX
Matt Basham x
Jared Henderson X x
Teddy Hodges xX
:

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 11" day of
February 2026, on a roll call vote as described above.

Exhibit “A”

CHAPTER 10-3 DEFINITIONS
10-3-5 Definitions Generally
Double fencing means fences running parallel with-each-other which are located with aseparation distanceto

each other, separated by less than six feet. Fences running parallel with each other, greater than six feet in
separation distance, properly gated or accessible for maintenance purposes, shall not be considered a double
fence.

Fence means any tangible barrier, an obstruction of any material, a line of obstacles, latticework, screening
material, wall, hedge, or continuous growth of shrubs or trees with the purpose of or having the effect of
preventing passage or view across the fence line.

Height, fence, means the vertical distance from the ground to the top of a fence panel (portion of fence
between the fence poles or supports). Fence height excludes minimal fence poles or supports that extend no
higher than six inches above the fence panel.

Yard means a space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward by

buildings or structures, except as follows:

Fences;

Canopies allowed under this title;

Accessory buildings in a rear yard;

The ordinary projections of windows where the projection is at least 18 inches above floor level,

roofs, cornices, chimneys, flues, and other ornamental features which project into a yard not more than

three feet;

E. Open or lattice enclosed exterior stairways, located in a commercial or manufacturing zone, projecting
into a yard not more than five feet; and

F. Structures less than 30 inches in height from the finished ground surface.

UOw>

CHAPTER 10-5 ADMINISTRATION AND DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCEDURES
10-5-10 Conditional Uses
E. Approval standards.
3. The proposed conditional use and associated plans include substantial mitigation of reasonably
anticipated detrimental effects arising from the conditional use, including, but not limited to:

a. Detrimental effects arising from incompatible designs in terms of use, scale, intensity, height,
mass, setbacks, character, construction, solar access, landscaping, fencing, screening, and
architectural design and exterior detailing/finishes and colors within the neighborhood in
which the conditional use will be located.

CHAPTER 10-11 RECREATIONAL ZONES
10-11-6 Development Standards
C. Design criteria. The following standards shall apply to development in the recreation community
zone:
11. Wildlife habitat. Protecting wildlife and their natural habitat is important for maintaining the
natural ecosystem and for the enjoyment of residents and visitors.
a. Proposals in the resort community zone shall note important natural features and
vegetation that serve as habitat, and identify wildlife that may be present in different
seasons.


b. Site plans should minimize the impact of development by:

(1) Siting buildings, structures, roads, trails, and other construction to avoid significant
natural features and to maintain a sufficient buffer between these important natural
areas and human activity;

(2) Facilitate wildlife movement by designing natural corridors between natural areas and
by minimizing fences and road crossings;

(3) Maintaining the natural structure of the site, different layers of vegetation; and

(4) Revegetating degraded areas with native plants and selecting plants that benefit
wildlife for new landscaped areas.

18. Fences. Fences should be used to the minimum extent possible to limit their visual impact and
allow access to public areas, as needed. Fences shall conform to the standards set forth in the city
engineering standards, and the following additional requirements:-

a. No fence shall be constructed unless shown on an-appreveda site plan_approved by the city.

b. No fence in excess of 42 inches in height shall be constructed or installed outside the
designated limits of disturbance, except as required by the city for uses, such as corrals for
permitted animals.

c. Fences in front yards and along roadways shall not exceed 42 inches in height.

d. Fences shall not inhibit the movement of wildlife along known travel corridors.

e. Use of opaque fence materials outside the designated limits of disturbance shall be prohibited.
Split wood rail fencing. or a combination of wood and wire fencing designed in compliance
with the specifications for wildlife-friendly fencing provided by the Utah State Division of
Natural Wildlife Resources, is encouraged.

CHAPTER 10-13 MANUFACTURING ZONES
10-13-4 Uses Allowed
D. Businesses and uses; conditions.

1. Metal buildings shall be prohibited.

2. Outdoor storage of materials, products, and equipment in the T-M zone shall be allowed only
when incidental to an allowed use. Outside storage shall be screened by a minimum six-foot-high
decorative precast masonry wall-consistent-with fencing requirement, consistent with the fencing

requirements set forth in HCC chapter 10-21.

Br All outside storage shall be screened by a minimum six-foot-high decorative precast masonry
wall-censistent-withfencine requirement, consistent with the fencing requirements set forth in
HCC chapter 10-21. No storage of material may exceed the height of the provided screening
fence.

CHAPTER 10-15 OVERLAY ZONES
10-15-3 Planned Development Overlay Zone
E. Development approval
8. Development agreement. In conjunction with approval of a preliminary site plan or a zone
change application, the city may elect to enter into a development agreement with the owner ofa
proposed planned unit development, which includes the following provisions.
b. The development agreement may, among other things, provide that:
(1) Any grading and drainage plans, landscaping, fencing, and screening plans, signs and
floodlighting, and site plans will be required as part of the site plan approval.
F. Development standards
12. Required improvements.


e. Infrastructure improvements, including, but not limited to, utilities, irrigation, street signs,
street lighting, fencing, and other required improvements, shall be provided in accordance
with city standards and specifications.

14. Landscaping, fencing, and screening shall requirements: related to the site’s land uses,-within
the-site-and serve as-aimeans ofintesrating serve to integrate the proposed development into
its surroundings, and shall be submitted as part of a site plan application.

a. Where a specific nonvisual barrier fence is required within a planned development, double

fencing shall not be installed within six feet of an existing fence.

b. Where a specific nonvisual barrier fence is required within a planned development, double

fencing shall not be installed within six feet of an existing fence.

10-15-4 Wind Energy Facilities Overlay Zone
E. Development approval
6. Additional information required. An application for a wind energy facility shall include the
following as part of an application for approval of a conditional use permit and a site plan:
e. Aplot plan prepared by a licensed surveyor or engineer, drawn at an appropriate scale and in
sufficient detail to clearly describe the following:
(6) Proposed landscaping, screening, and fencing.
F. Development approval
2. Wind energy facilities. The development standards set forth in this subsection (F) shall apply to
wind energy facilities in addition to the development standards set—ferthoutlined in thean
underlying zone, except as modified by this section,
b. Visual appearance; lighting; power lines.

(5) Advertising signs shall be prohibited on any part of the wind energy facility, including
fencing, support structures, and wind turbines, except for reasonable identification of the
manufacturer or operator of the wind energy facility. No lettering, company insignia,
advertising, or graphics shall be on any part of the tower, hub, or blades.

10-15-5 Sports and Entertainment Mixed Use Overlay Zone
G. Development approval

2. In addition to the information required for a building permit as described in subsection (G)(1) of
this section, and the requirements as set-ferthoutlined in HCC chapter 10-27, an application for a
regional sports facility sign and a regional sports facility sign shall satisfy the following
requirements:
a. site plan depicting the location of the proposed sign on the subject property, a rendering of the

sign, and any fencing or other screening to segregate the sign area from adjoining uses;

10-15-7 Major Corridor Sign Overlay Zone
F. Sign development standards
2. In addition to the information required for a building permit as described in subsection (F)(1) of
this section, and the requirements as set-ferthoutlined in HCC chapter 10-27, an application for a
multi-tenant center sign shall satisfy the requirements described below:
a. A site plan depicting the location of the proposed sign on the subject property, a rendering of
the sign calling out materials and sign dimensions, and any fencing or other screening to
segregate the sign area from adjoining uses;

CHAPTER 10-16 TABLE OF USES

10-16-1 Uses
Uses! Zones
SI1al S/S] 2) qa; Sf] Se] 2 a
={ 2) 2) =) =] =] =] 3] a] Ss] a] of a] x} als] sla} 2 3 a| uy
ala] al ol] oe] oe] oe} oe] el] oe] oe] |} Of] db] S| SS] ee] BS] BS] SY] eZ] OO
School, charter's P|} P| P|] P| P] P| PP] P] P| P| P| P| P| P|] P] P P| P
it elementary, middle, or p| p| p| p| pl pl pl pl pl p pe] pl p f

15

As provided in U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-305(3), a school district or charter school is not subject to requirements for

landscaping, fencing, aesthetic considerations, construction methods or materials, additional building inspections,
city building codes, building use for educational purposes, or placement or use of temporary classroom facilities on
school property.

16

As provided in U.C.A. 1953, § 10-9a-305(3), a school district or charter school is not subject to requirements for

landscaping, fencing, aesthetic considerations, construction methods or materials, additional building inspections,
city building codes, building use for educational purposes, or placement or use of temporary classroom facilities on
school property.

CHAPTER 10-21 FENCING

10-21-1 Purpose

The purpose of this chapter is to promote architectural compatibility, individual property safety, and vehicular
and pedestrian safety through fence design, height, and placement.

10-21-2 Definitions
Certain words and phrases in this chapter are defined in HCC chapter 10-3.

10-21-3 Residential Fencing

A.

B.

Applicability. The requirements of this section shall apply to any fence located on a lot or parcel ina
residential zone.

Front yard setback. Within a front yard setback or along a front lot line:

1. A solid fence shall not exceed three feet in height; and

2. An epen-open-type fence, e.g., wrought iron, shall not exceed four feet in height.

Side and/or rear yard setback. A fence whieh-that_exceeds eight feet in height shall not be
constructed:

1. Within a side yard and/or rear yard:, or

2. Along a side yard or rear yard lot line.

10-21-4 Fencing Materials

A.

Permitted fence materials. Fences and walls shall be made of high-high-quality, durable materials that
require minimal maintenance. The following fencing materials shall be allowed in all zones, except as
otherwise provided in this section or by a more restrictive provision of this title or engineering
standard:

1. Decorative precast concrete or integrally colored and textured block, brick, stone, or other
masonry wall materials;
2. Heavy-gauge vinyl or synthetic composite fence materials with beige, white, or neutral colors;

3. Natural. treated, or composite wood fence materials intended for weather-exposed construction; or


B.

4. Decorative wrought iron fence materials.

Prohibited fence materials. The following fencing materials shall be prohibited in all zones:

1. Plastic materials other than vinyl;

2. Materials not typically used, designated, or manufactured for fencing, such as metal roofing
panels, corrugated or sheet metal, tarps, or plywood;

3. Scrap materials such as scrap lumber and scrap metal;

4. Weed fencing of any-type:-Chain- link fencing, with or without slats; or

5. Barbed wire, concertina wire, razor ribbon, and similar fencing material, except where otherwise
permitted within this title or adopted engineering standard.

Fence material exceptions. The following fence materials may be permitted if they are compliant with

the-specified requirements:

1. VinytVinyl-coated chain-link fencing may be erected for recreational land uses as provided in
HCC 10-21-9460;

2. Straight-line barbed wire with wood or metal fence posts may be used to enclose or protect an
agricultural land use that encompasses five acres or more of property and is registered as a protected
greenbelt as per the Utah Farmland Assessment Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 5-2-501); or and

3. mete oi coms in aericn tues zones shall be consinugie of sturdy fence materialsthatmay

; : pes-h rade ty AEA Ach-, including metal
pipes, homearate vinyl. woud posts. or a minimum of 1- 1/2" thick wood planks without
dangerous protrusions. Electric fence wire may also be used if attached along the top of an
approved fence material. Electrically charged fence wire must be removed within 30 days of the
time when large animals no longer live on the property. No electrically charged fences will be
permitted between non-compatible uses, nor along any public rights-of-way.

10-21-5 Visual Obstructions
A. Corner lot visual obstruction. No obstruction to view which exceeds three feet in height shall be

placed on a corner lot within the triangular area formed by a right-of-way boundary line and the line
connecting them at points 30 feet from the intersection of the right-of-way boundary line. A fence ona
corner lot or parcel adjacent to a collector or arterial road shall be approved by the city engineer.
Right-of-way visual obstruction. No plant material, monument sign, or other obstruction shall be
permitted above three feet in height within the triangular area formed by a right-of-way boundary line
and the line connecting them at points 30 feet from the intersection of the right-of-way boundary line.
Driveway visual obstruction. No obstruction to view in excess of three feet in height shall be placed at
any driveway or automobile accessway within the triangular area formed by connecting the points of
intersection of the side driveway or accessway line and the property or side street line with points 12
feet along the property line and 12 feet along the driveway line.

10-21-6 Fencing Between Incompatible Uses
Whenever a lot is developed with a use that is incompatible with a use located on an abutting lot or parcel, the
new development shall include installation of a fence or wall along the property line between the incompatible
uses as provided in this section.

A. Residential and agricultural uses. A minimum six-foot-high solid vinyl fence shall be installed

B.

between residential uses and existing agricultural uses.

Residential and commercial uses. A minimum six-foot-high decorative precast or integrally colored
and textured block, brick, stone, or other masonry fence and/or wall shall be installed between
residential uses and commercial uses.

Commercial or office and agricultural or residential zones. A minimum six-foot-high decorative
masonry wall is required between commercial or office zones and agricultural or residential zones.

Other fencing or landscaping techniques may be used to buffer waterways, trails, parks, open spaces,
or other uses.

D. Warehousing or manufacturing and residential, commercial, or professional office uses. A minimum
six-foot-high solid vinyl, simulated wood, wrought iron, or masonry fence is required between
warehousing or manufacturing uses and residential, commercial, or professional office uses. Other
fencing or landscaping techniques may be used to buffer waterways, trails, parks, open spaces, or
other uses.

E. Higher fence or wall. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the planning commission may require
a higher fence or wall under the following circumstances:

1. Unusual topography.
2. Fora major utility.

10-21-7 Walls Along Collector and Arterial Streets

A. Applicability.

1. Whenever a lot or parcel is proposed to be developed +hieh-that abuts a collector street, as
identified in the city master street plan, a minimum six-foot-high wall shall be installed along the
street right-of-way line adjoining the lot or parcel as provided in this section.

2. Whenever a lot or parcel is proposed to be developed shieh-that_abuts an arterial street, as
identified in the city master street plan, a minimum eight-foot-high wall shall be installed along
the street right-of-way line adjoining the lot or parcel as provided in this section.

3. Exception: The community development director may modify or waive the wall requirement along
a front yard property line for lots that were recognized as legal by the city upon annexation or
have been approved by the city since incorporation.

B. Materials. A wall located on the right-of-way line of an identified collector or arterial street shall be
constructed of masonry or precast concrete in a style and color consistent with existing walls already
installed along the length of the street. Ifno wall has been constructed along the street, the wall shall
have a style and color consistent with other walls in the vicinity.

C. Mountain Vview Ceorridor noise walls. Any development abutting the Mountain View Corridor shall
include construction of a noise wall along the corridor right-of-way line if the Utah stateDdepartment
of Ttransportation determines that suehthe -wall is necessary pursuant to an environmental study.

10-21-8 Fencing Along Trails

A. Permitted. A full privacy fence may be installed along a trail if the minimum distance, at any arc or
angle, between any point on a property line to the closest private property line opposite a park, trail, or
open space is 50 feet or more.

B. Prohibited. A full privacy fence is prohibited if the minimum distance, at any arc or angle, between
any point on the property line to the closest private property line opposite a park, trail, or open space is
less than 50 feet. In such a case, a semi-private six-foot-high fence with slats may be installed.

C. Maintenance. Any vegetation on fencing along trails shall be maintained by the abutting property
owner so that it does not interfere with the use or maintenance of the trail.

10-21-9 Fences For Recreational Land Uses

On interior, side, and rear lot lines, vinyl-coated chain-link fences for recreational land uses such as tennis
court enclosures, sport courts, covered Jacuzzis®, and ball diamond backstops may be erected to a height
greater than eight feet, but shall not exceed a height of 18 feet and shall meet accessory building setback
requirements for the zone in which the fence is located.


10-21-10 Double Fencing
Double fences shall be prohibited except for the following:

A. When located adjacent to an existing agricultural or animal use. This exception means that owners

who wish to construct a fence may need to tie theit-fence-inte-an-existins fencetocatedit into an
existing fence on an adjacent lot or parcel, unless the fence is not deemed a double fence as defined in
HCC chapter 10-3.

B. Lots located directly adjacent to school district property.

C. When an adjacent property owner is unwilling to allow the removal and replacement of an existing
fence located on or near a common property line, the community development director may permit
double fencing to mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts from incompatible land uses as
defined within this title.

10-21-11 Fence Maintenance

Following the release of any improvement completion assurance for the construction of a fence, the abutting
property owner shall maintain the fence in good condition unless the city specifically agrees to maintain the
fence. All fences must be maintained in good condition and free from damage, breaks, or missing parts.

10-21-12 Fence Height Measurement
When a difference in grade exists on either side of a fence or wall, the height of the fence or wall shall be
measured from the average elevation of the finished grade of adjoining properties at the fence line.

CHAPTER 10-23 LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING
10-23-7 Landscaping Design Standards
B. Buffer landscaping between residential and nonresidential development. A landscaped buffer, at least
15 feet wide, shall be installed along side and rear lot lines whiehthat abut a residential zone.
1. Evergreen landscaping anticipated to grow to more than six feet in height shall be provided at
distances sufficient to provide a visual and noise-reducing barrier. Such landscaping shall consist
of at least one tree for every 20 feet of fencing.

10-23-13 Screening Requirements
B. Trash receptacles. Trash receptacles not located within a building shall be screened from view by a
solid barrier fence or wall, which is:
1. Afsat least six feet high;
2. Provides complete visual screening of the receptacle; and
3. Sissimilar to the architecture, material, and color of the main building located on the lot.
C. Outdoor storage areas. Outdoor storage a areas permitted by this title shall be screened from view by an

CHAPTER 10-28 SUBDIVISION AND SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
10-28-21 Fencing Requirements
A. Areas where fencing is required. The applicant shall install a six-foot non-climbable chain-link fence,

or its equivalent, in conformance with all applicable the-standards and-rules-and+egulations—as
provided in HCC chapter 10-21, along all open ditches, canals; or waterways, non-access streets, open
reservoirs or bodies of water, railroad rights-of-way, and other such features of potentially hazardous
nature located upon, eressing-across, or contiguous to the property being subdivided, except along
these features which-that the planning commission shall determines would not be a hazard to life, or
where the conforming structure would create a hazard to the safety of the public.


B. Non-access streets. Fencing and landscaping along non-access streets shall be reviewed and approved
by the planning commission to provide a uniform and aesthetically pleasing streetscape.

C. Lots on a private right-of-way. All lots ona private right-of-way shall have a six-foot solid vinyl fence
along both sides of the private right-of-way.

CHAPTER 10-29 SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
10-29-20 Flag Lots
B. Minimum requirements. A flag lot shall meet the following minimum requirements:

2. The minimum width of the staff portion of a flag lot shall be 25 feet to accommodate the required
drivable surface, drive approach, utilities, fencing, and landscaping as needed. ForOn properties
where the length of the staff is-ereaterthanexceeds 150 feet, the width of the staff may be
increased if recommended by the city engineer, -and-the authority having jurisdiction for fire
services, -and approved by the planning commission.

4. The flag lot shall have a hard-surfaced driveway from a public street to the required parking area
forthe flagtet. Adequate provisions shall be made for driveway drainage, such as curb and gutter,
landscaped berms or swales, and fencing.

14. A six-foot privacy fence shall be installed on all sides of a flag lot, including along both sides of
the staff portion of the lot, subject only to the requirements of HCC 10-21-3 regarding front yard
fencing. The planning commission may remove or modify this standard to avoid double fencing,
preserve mature vegetation, or maintain clear views for public safety.

10-29-53 Retaining Walls
E. Height: For the-purpeses-efthis subsection, the height of a retaining wall, excluding rockeries, is
measured as the exposed height (H) of the wall. The height of a rockery is measured from the bottom
of the footing, or base stone, to the top of the wall. If a retaining wall has a varying height along its
length, the height is the largest value of the measured height along the length of the wall.
1. Residential, Forestry Recreation, and Agricultural Zones.

d. When a grade change of four feet or greater is created by a proposed retaining wall along the
boundary of the subject property, fencing with a minimum height of three feet shall be
installed along the boundary of the property where a grade change of four feet or more occurs.

2. All other Zones
c. When a grade change of (4) four feet or greater is created by a proposed retaining wall

along the boundary of the subject property, fencing with a minimum height of (3) three
feet shall be installed along the boundary of the property where a grade change of (4) four
feet or more occurs.

CHAPTER 10-31 AUTO MALL SPECIAL DISTRICT
10-31-7 C-2 Modifications

D. Buffers, fences, and walls. As part of the site plan approval process, special buffers, fences, and walls
shall be required to provide separations between public/commereial areasseparate publicly accessible
areas from commercial service areas, includingserviee; loading, refuse collection, mechanical
equipment, -and/or storage areas.

I. Security for display vehicles. To the extent deemed necessary by individual dealers, curb walls no
higher than 16 inches, closely spaced concrete bollards, berms, low-security fencing, and rails may be
used. The design must be compatible with the project theme and architectural detailing in other parts
of the site.

L. Fences, screens, and walls


1. Fences, screens, and walls shall be compatible and architecturally complementary between two
adjoining sites. This may be achieved by usinguse-ef similar materials-and-finishes+tomaterials and
finishes similar to those of the building, landscaping-materials, or other architectural design
features.

2. Location of fences shall be compatible with adjoining property users to permit the common use of
gates and accesses.

3. CNeither-chain-link ferneing—fences and nerplain concrete-bleekfences—are-block walls are

prohibited. “permitted.
4. Ten-foot screening walls around auto storage areas shall be permitted.

10-31-9 Development Standards For Non-Franchise Dealerships
K. Security for display vehicles. To the extent deemed necessary by individual dealers, curb walls no
higher than 16 inches, closely spaced concrete bollards, berms, low-security fencing, and rails may be
used. The design must be compatible with the project theme and architectural detailing in other parts
of the site.
N. Fences, screens, and walls
1. Fences, screens, and walls shall be compatible and architecturally complementary between two
adjoining sites. This may be achieved by usinguse-ef simiar-matertals-and-finishestomaterials and
finishes similar to those of the building, landscaping materials, or other architectural design
features.
2. Location of fences shall be compatible with adjoining property users to permit the common use of

gates and accesses.
3. CNeither chain-link fences ing-andner plain concrete-bleekfenees-are-block walls are prohibited.

pernitied:

4. Ten-foot screening walls around auto storage areas shall be permitted.

10-31-10 Landscape And Other Standards
H. Vehicle storage. The accessory use of vehicle storage shall comply with the following:

4, Fencing. Vehicle storage shall be screened by a minimuntsix-feot-high masonryfenceasonry wall
at least 6 feet high.

10-31-12 Signage
D. Development standards. Signage is an important component of land use within the AMSD. All signs
shall comply with the HCC chapter 10-27, with the following exceptions:
7. Additional standards
d. In addition to the information required for a building permit, and the requirements as set
ferthoutlined in HCC chapter 10-27, an application for sign 1, 2, or 3 shall satisfy the
requirements described below:
(1) A site plan depicting the location of the proposed sign on the subject property, a rendering
of the sign calling out materials and sign dimensions, and any fencing or other screening to
segregate the sign area from adjoining uses;

10-35-7 Engineering and Design Standards
K. Support equipment pads, cabinets, shelters, and buildings require architectural, landscape, color,
fencing, or other camouflage treatment to minimize visual impacts to the extent deemed necessary by
the Planning Director. Landscaping screening should also be provided if irrigation water is available.

