HERRIMAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2026-02

AMENDING CHAPTER 10-27 SIGNS OF HERRIMAN CITY CODE TO
INCLUDE STANDARDS FOR THE CF COMMERCIAL FLEX ZONE AND
UPDATE REQUIREMENTS FOR ILLUMINATED COMMERCIAL SIGNS

WHEREAS, the City of Herriman, pursuant to Utah State Code, may adopt an ordinance to
establish land development regulations (“Zoning”), which includes the adoption or amendment of the
regulatory text or official map; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code, the Planning Commission (the “Commission”) shall
prepare and recommend any Zoning amendments to the City Council (the “Council”); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the City of Herriman Land Development Code, the Commission shall
hold a public hearing and provide reasonable notice at least ten (10) days prior to the said public hearing
to recommend any Zoning amendment to the Council; and

WHEREAS, a notice of a Planning Commission public hearing of a Zoning text amendment was
posted in three (3) public locations and mailed to affected entities on December 23, 2025, for a meeting
held on January 7, 2026, at 7:00 p.m.; and

WHEREAS, the Commission voted 6-0 to recommend approval of the Zoning text amendment in
a public meeting held on January 7, 2026, at 7:00 p.m. in the City Council Chamber; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Herriman City Code, it is the responsibility of the Council to consider
the Zoning text amendment and the Commission’s recommendation in a public meeting; and

WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on January 28, 2026, at 7:00 p.m. to discuss
the Zoning text amendment; and

WHEREAS, the Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Herriman City to
adopt the Zoning text amendment, which was recommended by the Planning Commission and
documented in City File number Z2025-162;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Herriman City Council for approval to amend the
Herriman City Land Development Code, Title 10, as described in Exhibit “A”.

This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2026-02, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City Recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 28" day of January, 2026.

HERRIMAN CITY

ATTEST:

Herriman City

ORDINANCE NUMBER: 2026-02

SHORT TITLE: ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 10-27 SIGNS OF HERRIMAN
CITY CODE TO INCLUDE STANDARDS FOR THE CF COMMERCIAL FLEX ZONE AND

UPDATE REQUIREMENTS FOR ILLUMINATED COMMERCIAL SIGNS

PASSAGE BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF HERRIMAN CITY ROLL CALL

NAME MOTION SECOND FOR AGAINST OTHER
Lorin Palmer x
Terrah Anderson x xX
Matt Basham x x
Jared Henderson x
Teddy Hodges xX
TOTALS 5

This ordinance was passed by the City Council of Herriman City, Utah on the 28" day of

January 2026, on a roll call vote as described above.


Exhibit “A”

The following excerpts from various sections of the Herriman City Code provide context for the Ordinance.
Only the text marked by an underline or strike-through shall be amended by the codifier.

Title 10 Land Development Code
CHAPTER 10-27 Signs

10-27-1 Purpose

The purpose of this chapter is to eliminate excessive and confusing sign displays that create potential
hazards to motorists, pedestrians, property, and to provide a communication system by establishing
requirements for the location, size, height, and lighting of signs that will be compatible with adjoining
land uses, architecture, and landscape, and that will help prevent clutter and litter, and will preserve and
improve the aesthetic values and visual qualities of the city.

10-27-2 Scope
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all signs located in the city whieh that are regulated under

this title.

10-27-3 Definitions
Certain words and phrases in this chapter, including sign types, are defined in HCC chapter 10-3.

10-27-4 Conformity Required
A. Generally. Signs shall not be erected, raised, moved, placed, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or
altered unless in conformity with the regulations set forth in this chapter.
B. Nonconforming signs. A nonconforming sign shall not be reconstructed, raised, moved, placed,
extended, enlarged, or altered, unless the sign is changed so as to conform to applicable provisions
of this title.

10-27-5 Interpretation
The following provisions shall be used to interpret and apply the provisions of this chapter in addition to
other applicable provisions of this title.
A. Intervening streets. Lots divided by public streets shall not be deemed to be adjacent.
B. Limitations. The sign requirements contained in this chapter are declared to be the maximum
allowable.
C. Prohibited signs. Signs not specifically allowed by this chapter shall be prohibited, including, but
not limited to, A-frame, snipe, and pedestal signs.
D. Conflicts. If a provision of another ordinance conflicts with a provision of this chapter, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply.

10-27-6 Noncommercial Signs

A. Intent. It is not the intent of this chapter to allow commercial speech to a greater extent than
noncommercial speech.

B. Substitution of sign copy. Any sign allowed under this chapter may contain lawful noncommercial
sign copy that occupies the entire sign area or any portion thereof, and may be substituted for, or
be combined with, a commercial message. Sign copy may be changed at will at any time without
any additional approval or permitting, provided the sign is not prohibited and complies with
applicable requirements of this chapter.


10-27-7 Signs Allowed

Signs allowed shall be as shown in chart 10-27 of this section.

CHART 10-27. SIGNS ALLOWED BY ZONES

All Zones
Atl Zores-Sign Maximum Size Maximum Height | Location Other Requirements
Type
Construction 32 sq. ft. unless 3 | 12 feet, unless3 | Must maintain clear | 1 sign allowed for each
or more builders | or more builders | view of intersecting | exterior public street frontage
combine into 1 combine into | streets and cannot _| (individual subdivision phases
sign up to 128 sq. | sign; but in no interfere with views | are not separate subdivisions
ft. case more than 20 | from driveways that allow additional signage)
feet Up to 3 additional signs may
be approved when multiple
builders combine into | sign
Signs must be removed within
30 days after the last lot is sold
Flat (superseded |5% of wall area | None Building wall Allowed only with public or
by specific zone quasi-public buildings,
requirements) planned unit developments,
golf courses, cemeteries, and
dwelling groups
Mobile None None 6-foot setback See HCC 10-27-10
1 sign per street frontage and
landscaped appropriately for
the site
Monument 1 per lot, 32 sq. 6 feet 6-foot setback Allowed only with public or
(superseded by ft., plus 1 sq. ft. quasi-public buildings or uses,
specific zone for every 10 feet planned unit developments,
requirements) of frontage over golf courses, cemeteries,
30 feet up to 64 dwelling groups, and day
sq. ft. care/preschool centers
Premises ground | 6 sq. ft. per sign | 6 feet 6-foot setback Not permitted on lots used for
residential purposes. Limited
to 4 signs per building
Premises wall 3 sq. ft. per tenant | None Building wall
Yard 6 sq. ft. 6 feet 6-foot setback Not permitted in street

medians, park strips, or other
public rights-of-way


R-M and OP Zones

Sign Type Maximum Size Maximum | Location Other Requirements
Height
Flat 15% of wall area | None Building wall Signs exposed to dwellings on
adjacent properties cannot be
illuminated
Monument |1 per lot,32 sq. | 6 feet 18-inch setback A monument sign is a conditional
ft., plus 1 sq. ft. use
for every 10 feet
of frontage over
30 feet up to 64
sq. ft.
Window None None In window Cannot be illuminated
C-1 Zone
Awning 25% of wall area | Cannot 8 feet maximum Attached to a building
may be covered | extend Proj ection from GHeet aisiinufeabGvestourtl
above building
50% of awning building May be located on 3 | Primary sign copy on face or
may have sign wall building walls street side of structure
copy
Flat 15% of wall area | None Building wall Illumination may be built into or
attached to signs unless exposed
to a dwelling on adjacent
property or a residential zone
boundary;in-which-easetimaybe
approval. Property separated by a
public street or right-of-way is
not adjacent.
Monument |1 per lot, unless | 6 feet 18-inch setback A monument sign is a conditional
on a comer lot, use
then 1 per
frontage
32 sq. ft., plus 1
sq. ft. for every
10 feet of
frontage over 30
feet, up to 64 sq.
ft.
Window None None In window None


C-2 Zone

Awning 25% of wall area | Cannot 8 feet maximum Attached to a building
may be covered | extend projection from f _ b d
1 building 8 feet minimum above groun
50% of awning erie May be located on 3 | Primary sign copy on face or
may have sign bi building walls street side of structure
copy
Balloon None None Anywhere on lot A balloon sign is a conditional use
Flat or wall | 20% of wall area | None Building wall Illumination may be built into or
attached to signs unless exposed
to a dwelling on adjacent
property or a residential zone
boundary;in-which-easeitinaybe
approval. Property separated by a
public street or right-of-way is
not adjacent.
Monument | 32 sq. ft.,plus1 | 6 feet 18-inch setback A monument sign is a conditional
sq. ft. for every 4 : use
feet of frontage 1 sign per 300 feet
over 30 feet ona roo or matt
street up to 64 sq. MIGEEO,
ft.
Planned 200 sq. ft. 16 feet 2-foot setback A planned center sign is a
center above conditional use. It is limited to
sidewalk commercial centers with 3 or
grade more acres and multiple retail
tenants
Maximum of 1 sign per street
frontage
Subject to conditional use
approval
Promotional | 1 sq. ft. foreach | 10 feet 6-foot setback Illumination may be built into or
linear foot of attached to signs, unless exposed
frontage up to 20 to a dwelling on adjacent
sq. ft. per sign property or residential zone
boundary-n-whiehaseit-maybe
approval
Roof Same as ground | 10 feet A roof sign may be substituted for
sign above ground or projecting signs, but is
roof subject to conditional use

approval


Support structure must not be
visible

Temporary | None None Allowed a maximum of 21 days
at any | time, with a minimum
30-day separation between
displays, and not more than 4
times during a calendar year

Window None None In window None

CF Zone

Awning 25% of wall area | Cannot 8 feet maximum Attached to a building

may be covered | extend projection from 8 feet mini b d
above building eet minimum above groun

50% of awning ae May be located on 3 | Primary sign copy on face or

may have sign walt building walls street side of structure

copy

Balloon None None Anywhere on lot A balloon sign is a conditional
use

Flat or wall | 20% of wall area | None Building wall Illumination may be built into or
attached to signs unless exposed
to a dwelling on adjacent
property or a residential zone
boundary. Property separated by a
public street or right-of-way is
not adjacent.

Monument | 32 sq. ft.,plus1 | 6 feet 18-inch setback A monument sign is a conditional

sq. ft. for every 4 ; use
feet of frontage = im cE an
over 30 feet ona a xz orp
street up to 64 sq. Mereot
ft.
Planned 200 sq. ft. 16 feet 2-foot setback A planned center sign is a
center above conditional use. It is limited to
sidewalk commercial centers with 3 or
grade more acres and multiple tenants
Maximum of | sign per street
frontage
Subject to conditional use
approval
Promotional | 1 sq. ft. foreach | 10 feet 6-foot setback Illumination may be built into or

linear foot of
frontage up to 20

sq. ft. per sign

attached to signs, unless exposed

to a dwelling on adjacent
property or residential zone

boundary,


Roof Same as ground | 10 feet - A roof sign may be substituted for
sign above ground or projecting signs, but is
roof subject to conditional use approval
Support structure must not be
visible
Temporary | None None 7 Allowed a maximum of 21 days
at any | time, with a minimum
30-day separation between
displays, and not more than 4
times during a calendar year
Window None None In window None
M-1 Zone
Awning 25% of wall area | Cannot 8 feet maximum Attached to building
may be covered | extend projection from ~
Bee building 8 feet minimum above ground
50% of awning ae May be located on 3 | Primary sign copy on face or
may have sign _ building walls street side of structure
copy
Balloon None None Anywhere on lot A balloon sign is a conditional
use
Flat or wall | 20% of wall area | None Building wall Illumination may be built into or
attached to signs. unless exposed
to an adjacent dwelling or
residential zone boundary.
Property separated by a public
street or right-of-way is not
adjacent
Monument | 32 sq. ft., plus 1 | 6 feet 18-inch setback A monument sign is a conditional
sq. ft. for every 4 : use
feet of frontage t sign per 300 feet
over 30 feet ona eae orpan
street up to 64 sq. tereo
ft.
Roof Same as ground | 10 feet Roof sign may be substituted for
sign above a ground or projecting sign, but is
roof subject to conditional use
approval. The planning
commission may deny a sign or
set more restrictive conditions.
Signs shall be installed so that the
support structure is not visible
Temporary | None None Allowed a maximum of 21 days

at any 1 time, with a minimum
30-day separation between


displays, and not more than 4
times during a calendar year

Window None None In window None
MU-2 Zone
Awning 25% of wall area | Cannot 8 feet maximum Attached to a building
may be covered | extend projection from 8 feet mini b d
above building eet minimum above groun
50% of awning a May be located on 3 | Primary sign copy on face or
may have sign wall building walls street side of structure
copy
Balloon None None Anywhere on lot A balloon sign is a conditional
use
Flat or wall | 20% of wall area | None Building wall Illumination may be built into or
attached to signs unless exposed
to a dwelling on adjacent
property or a residential zone
boundarynvhich-ease+t+maybe
approval. Property separated by a
public street or right-of-way is
not adjacent.
Monument | 32sq. ft.,plus1 | 6 feet 18-inch minimum A monument sign is a conditional
sq. ft. for every 4 setback use
feet of montage 1 sign per 300 feet | Monument signs larger than the
over 30 feet "7 a frontage or part maximum size may be approved
i up to 64 sq. thereof by the Planning Commission as
: part of a master plan up to a
maximum of 200 sq. ft. and a
maximum height of 15 feet if:
(A) Space is provided for
multiple users
(B) Located in commercial
project with at least 1 user greater
than 3 acres
Planned 200 sq. ft. 16 feet 2-foot setback A planned center sign is a
center high from conditional use. It is limited to
sidewalk commercial centers with 3 or
grade more acres and multiple retail

tenants

Maximum of 1 sign per street
frontage


Promotional | 1 sq. ft. foreach | Maximum | 6-foot setback Subject to conditional use
linear foot of height approval
a up to 20 equals Illumination may be built into or
Sq. It. per sign sign k attached to signs, unless exposed
setback, to a dwelling on adjacent
but wn property or residential zone
jon iam boundary, in which case it may be
10 teet allowed with conditional use
approval
Roof Same as ground | 10 feet A roof sign may be substituted for
sign above ground or projecting signs, but is
roof subject to conditional use
approval
Support structure must not be
visible
Temporary | None None Allowed a maximum of 21 days
at any | time, with a minimum
30-day separation between
displays, and not more than 4
times during a calendar year
Window None None In window None

A. Illuminated signs.

1.

pe

The primary purpose of illuminated signs is to enhance visibility for vehicular and pedestrian

traffic on roadways and walking paths.

Illumination may be built into or attached to signs listed in Chart 10-27 when:

a. Lighting is allowed in the specific zone;

b. Sign is located within a development that has a minimum continuous street frontage of 500
feet, and faces, or is oriented toward, this same street frontage.

c. Sign is located 200 feet or more from any lot where an illuminated sign is not permitted.

Signs that face one or more dwellings on an adjacent property may not be illuminated as a

permitted use. Property separated by a public street or right-of-way is not adjacent.

a. The Planning Commission may consider a conditional use permit application to allow an
illuminated sign that faces one or more dwellings on an adjacent property if the residential
land use is part of a commercial or mixed-use development.

b. For any Conditional Use permit request. the applicant shall provide the following:

i. Sign details that include location and elevation plans. lighting specifications,
pedestrian-scale perspective renderings, and photos from adjacent_ residential
properties where the sign will be installed.

ii. Scaled and dimensioned site plan of the proposed illuminated sign and all residential
buildings located within 200 feet of the sign. unless separated by a street that is at least

sixty- six (66) feet wide.

ill.

on adjacent residential units.


iv. Sign management and operational plan that includes display hours, automatic

programming. light dimming. and other measures designed to limit impacts on

residential neighbors.

10-27-8 Signs On Public Property

No sign shall be located on publicly owned land or within street rights-of-way, including, but not limited
to, handbills, posters, advertisements, or notices fastened, placed, posted, painted, or attached in any way
upon any curbstone, lamp post, utility pole, hydrant, bridge, tree, rock, sidewalk, or street, except signs
erected or permitted by the city or an authorized public agency.

10-27-9 Approval Process

A. Comprehensive sign plan. When an application for the first land use permit on a lot (building
permit, site plan, or conditional use permit) is submitted to the city, the application shall include a
comprehensive sign plan for all existing, proposed, or future signs on the lot.

B. Permit required. No person shall erect, alter, repair, relocate, or modify any sign without first
obtaining a sign permit and a building permit for such work as provided in HCC 10-5-12, unless
no permit is required.

C. No permit required. A sign permit shall not be required for yard signs.

10-27-10 Mobile Signs

Following the issuance of a sign permit to construct a permanent sign, a temporary mobile sign may be
placed on the lot for which the sign permit is issued. The mobile sign shall be removed upon inspection
and approval of the permanent sign or upon expiration of 60 days after issuance of the sign permit,
whichever first occurs first. Mobile signs shall not employ animated, flashing, or intermittent lights.

10-27-11 Electronic Signs
Electronic signs are permitted subject to the following limitations:
A. Where allowed. Electronic signs shall be allowed only in e-commercial, flex, mixed use, and
manufacturing zones.
B. Location.
1. Allelectronic signs shall comply with 10-27-7 in regards to placement adjacent to residential
property or dwellings.
2. Electronic signs, which are not part of a monument sign or an installation where any portion
of the electronic sign is six feet above finished grade, shall not be permitted within 500 feet of
the nearest boundary line of a parcel located in a residential zone.

3. Electronic signs, which are part of a monument sign or an installation less than six feet above
finished grade, and the display is parallel to a residentially zoned property, are not permitted
within 150 feet of the corresponding lot line of the residential subject property.

4. Electronic signs within 150 feet of Mountain View Corridor (MVC) or an arterial road, where

the digital display is six feet above finished grade, shall not be within 225 feet of a residential
dwelling which that is parallel to the sign face.

5. Electronic signs located within an outdoor advertising corridor, as defined in U.C.A. 1953, §
72-7-502, shall comply with all regulations of HCC chapter 10-10, U.C.A. 1953, title 72, ch.
7, pt. 5 (U.C.A. 1953, § 72-7-501 et seq) and UAC 1933-2.

C. Size. The changeable sign copy of an electronic sign shall not exceed 75 percent of the sign area,
and the remainder of the sign shall be of a permanent character as otherwise required under this
chapter.

D. Malfunctions. Any electronic sign with electrical or lighting components operating in an erratic,
broken, or damaged fashion shall have a default mechanism to turn off the sign within 24 hours of

a reported malfunction.

E. Brightness.

1. Sign illumination levels for digital signs shall never, at maximum display intensity, exceed 0.3
footcandle over ambient lighting conditions when measured at the distance based on the
formula of the square root of the product of the area of the display multiplied by 100.

2. All permitted electronic signs shall be equipped with a sensor or other device that automatically
determines the ambient illumination and is programmed to automatically dim according to
ambient light conditions, or that can be adjusted to comply with the 0.3 footcandle
measurements. The applicant shall submit a photometric matrix (showing the dispersal in
footcandles) showing that the sign meets all the requirements of this Code.

F, Dwell time and transitions.

1. The inclusion of text or video that flashes, scrolls, appears to flash, or strobes is prohibited.

2. Images shall have a minimum eight-second dwell time.

3. Transitions between images shall be no less than three seconds. In order to better regulate
changing images, a fade-in and fade-out transition must be used. The fade-in and fade-out
prevents a dark image from transitioning abruptly to a light image and vice versa, thus creating
a flash or strobe-like effect.

4. Digital signs installed within 150 feet of Mountain View Corridor or an arterial road shall have
image dwell times of eight seconds or more, and the actual message rotation is accomplished
in three seconds or less. Transitions must be done in a manner where the transition between
images have similar background colors and brightness. Digital signs within 150 feet of
Mountain View Corridor or an arterial road are not subject to subsection (G) of this section.

G. Frequency of changes. An electronic sign on which the sign copy changes more than four times
per minute (once every 15 seconds) shall be deemed an animated sign and is prohibited.

10-27-12 Size Computation

A. Multiple uses on one lot. When more than one use occupies a lot, the frontage may be used to
calculate the sign size for one ground or projecting sign for all uses on the lot. The total sign area
may then be divided between the uses. There may be any number of flat or wall signs, provided
the total area of such signs does not exceed the percentage of wall area coverage allowed.

B. Use of lot line. A lot line whieh that abuts a non-access freeway, road, street, or right-of-way may
not be used in computing sign area.

C. Sign area calculation. In computing sign area, only one side of a back-to-back or double-faced
sign shall be computed when signs are parallel or diverge from a common edge by an angle of not
more than 45 degrees. The area of signs that do not have a frame or a separate background shall
be computed on the basis of the least rectilinear line with a maximum of eight sides, triangle, or
circle large enough to frame sign copy. Sign areas in the shape of a sphere, prism, cylinder, cone,
pyramid, square, or other such shapes shall be computed as one-half of the total surface area.

10-27-13 Sign Modifications
A. Lot with less than minimum required frontage. When a lot has frontage that is ten percent less than
the minimum required by the zone in which the lot is located, the planning commission may allow
a sign on the lot that has more sign area than allowed by the regulations set forth in this chapter,
provided the planning commission approves a conditional use permit for the sign modification and
finds the modification is:
1. Consistent with the purpose of this chapter; and


2. In architectural harmony with development on the lot and other buildings and uses adjacent
to the development.
B. Limitation. Notwithstanding subsection (A) of this section, no sign modification shall deviate from
the required standard by more than 25 percent.

10-27-14 Height Of Ground Signs

The height of ground signs, except as otherwise specified in this chapter, shall be measured from the grade
at the lot line of the yard in which the sign is located and shall not exceed the height allowed in the zone
in which the sign is located.

10-27-15 Imprint Of Ownership Required
All signs shall bear the imprint of the sign owner and sign erector in plain and public view.

10-27-16 Signs Within 200 Feet Of Single-Family Dwelling
No lighted flat-greund-or+reef sign shall be located within 200 feet of a-any residential dwelling unless
the sign is separated from the dwelling by a street that is at least 60 66 feet wide.

10-27-17 Sign Installation Standards
Signs shall comply with the following location standards:

A. No obstruction. Signs shall not be erected in a manner that allows any portion of the sign to
interfere with any fire escape, fire exit, or standpipe, or obstruct any required stairway, door,
ventilator, or window.

B. Utility clearance. Signs shall not be erected or maintained whieh that have less horizontal or
vertical clearance from communication and electrical power lines than as prescribed by applicable
law or regulations.

C. Minimum clearance. Signs shall not be erected in a manner that any portion of a sign extends over
a public or private walkway with a minimum clearance of less than ten feet.

D. Visibility at intersections. Signs shall not be placed within the clear view of an intersection exeept

E. Traffic hazards prohibited. Signs shall not be erected at the intersection of any streets or driveways
in a manner that obstructs free and clear vision, or at any location where by reason of the sign's
position, shape, or color, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any
authorized traffic sign, signal device, or make use of the words "stop," "drive-in," "danger," or any
other words, phrases, symbols, or characters in a manner that may interfere with, mislead, or
confuse vehicle operators.

F, Lighting beyond property. Lighted signs shall not be installed in a manner that permits the light to
unreasonably annoy or interfere with the use of nearby property. The community development
director shall consider the validity of any alleged violation of this subsection. If such light is
determined to be in violation, the director shall require the owner of the light to take appropriate
corrective action. Action taken by the community development director may be appealed to the
appeal authority as provided in HCC 10-5-24.

10-27-18 Sign Maintenance

Signs shall be maintained in a safe, presentable, and good condition, including the replacement of
defective parts, repainting, cleaning, and other acts required to maintain the sign. No permit is required to
maintain or service a sign.

10-27-19 Sign Removal
Signs relating to a business whieh that has closed or relocated shall be removed or the sign copy removed

within 30 days of closure or relocation.


10-27-20 Other Applicable Regulations

To the extent that use and development of land subject to this chapter includes any matter governed by
other applicable regulations set forth in this title, such regulations shall apply in addition to the
requirements of this chapter.

10-27-21 Enforcement
The provisions of this chapter may be enforced as provided in HCC chapter 10-7.

10-27-22 Severability
The provisions of this chapter shall be severable as provided in HCC 10-1-13.


