       2025
  GENERAL PLAN
CITIZEN’S SUMMARY
OUR VISION
Park City’s General Plan is the community-driven blueprint that builds upon prior planning
documents and community visioning to guide future development growth, and land
use policy. It captures a shared community vision based on four core values: small town,
sense of community, natural setting, and historic character and five Plan themes.



  VISION STATEMENT




          “ Park City is a mountain community
          that preserves our small-town feel, unique
          character and history, natural environment,
          open space, and world-class recreation.
          We advance multi-modal transportation
          and innovation for residents, workforce and
          visitors, while fostering thoughtful planning
          and land uses for balanced growth, today and
          for future generations.

                                                 ”

2 |
REALIZING OUR VISION

                                                      1
To realize our vision, the plan includes specific
strategies within each Plan Theme. These provide
guidance for city-wide policies, programs, and
initiatives that support implementation of the                  VISION
General Plan Vision.                                      What do we hope to
An Implementation Matrix provides additional                   achieve?
guidance and anticipates a yearly evaluation
with recommendations by the Historic Preservation




                                                      2
Board, the Planning Commission, and staff, and City
Council direction on annual prioritization.

In addition, each Park City neighborhood has
an area-specific plan element. This ensures                 PLAN THEMES
the plan can be effectively implemented on a
neighborhood scale, meeting the goals of each
                                                           What will guide us?
community.

Finally, a Land Use Node Types Map provides
guidance for future development and preservation



                                                      3
throughout Park City. This map identifies areas
for priority transportation, housing, and land use
investments, as well as areas that should remain
unchanged from today. The map provides                       STRATEGIES
guidance for the plan’s focus areas related to land
uses, transportation, housing, and sustainability.        How will we get there?




                                                                                   | 3
OUR PLAN THEMES




  TRANSPORTATION                         COMMUNITY CHARACTER                         MODERATE I
  We value a connected community         We value our unique community,              HOUSING
  with great access to recreation        quality of life, and authentic character.   We will provide hou
  and open spaces and a variety of       We support a variety of options that        various groups, inclu
  transportation options for visitors,   create housing opportunities for all        seniors, and first-tim
  workforce, and residents.              groups within the community. We
                                                                                     FOCUS AREAS
                                         preserve our historic districts and
  FOCUS AREAS                                                                        •   Variety of Hous
                                         cultural elements and celebrate the
 •    Data Backed Decision Making        history of Park City.                       •   Workforce Hou
 •    Transit Improvements
                                         FOCUS AREAS
 •    Traffic Management
                                         •   Small Town Feel
 •    Parking
                                         •   Sense of Community
 •    Preserve Park City’s Small Town
                                         •   Land Use Growth
      Feel
                                         •   Technology
 •    Walkable and Bikeable
      Neighborhoods                      •   Historic Preservation
 •    Special Events
 •    Emergency Planning
 •    Innovation and Technology




4 |
INCOME              WATER AND OPEN                       SUSTAINABILITY
                    SPACE PRESERVATION                   We value our natural environment
using options for   We protect our resources and plan    and preserve and protect natural
 uding workforce,   for future generations and climate   areas.
me home buyers.     change. We strive to preserve our    FOCUS AREAS
                    open and natural lands and create
                                                         •   Environment
                    a green buffer around Park City.
 sing Options                                            •   Wildfires
                    FOCUS AREAS
using                                                    •   Waste Reduction
                    •   Water Preservation
                                                         •   Energy Efficiency
                    •   Open Space Conservation
                    •   Sensitive Lands




                                                                                            | 5
OUR NEIGHBORHOOD PLANS
The Neighborhood Plans identify key characteristics of each area and specify recommendations based on
feedback from each neighborhood residents. The Neighborhood Plans list specific recommendations that
reflect the different character of each area, resulting in tailor made recommendations that address each
neighborhood’s opportunities and challenges.

The individual plans are structured as a snapshot of each neighborhood containing details based on
common parameters like total acres, population, etc. followed by specific recommendations.




                                               #2
                        #3
                                                                             #1
                                                      #4
                                          #5
                                    #6
                                                     #8              #7


                                               #9                                   LEGEND
                                                                                     1   Quinn’s Junction

                                                                                     2   Park Meadows

                                                                                     3   Thaynes

                                                                                     4   Prospector

                                                                                     5   Bonanza Park
                                                    #10
                                                                                     6   Resort Center

                                                                                     7   Lower Deer Valley

                                                                                     8   Masonic Hill

                                                                                     9   Old Town

                                                                                    10 Upper Deer Valley



6 |
| 7
LAND USE NODE TYPES MAP
The Land Use Node Types Map identifies key opportunity areas to support the Park City vision for the future.
It is based on existing zoning to illustrate the current character and anticipated development patterns in
each neighborhood. Specific Node Types are identified as circles on the map - these are opportunities for
context-sensitive development that can implement goals around commercial, mixed-use, and housing
development found in the General Plan Themes. Neighborhood Mobility Hubs are identified on the map
and are intended to support first-and-last mile transportation connections within existing neighborhoods.
Each node type includes a general description, anticipated future land use mix, and character imagery.




               SR
                                                                             Park                                                               Quinn’s



                         *
                    -2
                         24
                                Mead                                       Meadows                                                             Junction
                                       ow s D
                                                r




                                                                           *
      Thaynes

                                                                                                                                              24 8
                                                           Lucky John Dr




                                                                                                                                       S R-
                                                                               Monitor Dr




                                                                                                           SR-248
                              Payday Dr




                                                                                                          *
                                            S R-
                                                2 24




                                                       Bonanza                                             Prospector
                                                         Park
                                    Th
                                     re
                                       e




                                                                                                                                                     Lower
                                          Ki
                                          ng




                                                                                             Masonic                                                  Deer
                                           sD




                                           Resort
                                                r




                                                                                               Hill                                                  Valley
                                           Center
                                                                                                          Mo ad
                                                                                                          Me ta in




                                                                                                                                                     Solamere Dr
                                                                            SR

                                                                            Pa
                                                                             -2




                                                                                                            Ro
                                                                                                            un
                                                                                                            ll ow
                                                                               rk
                                                                                24

                                                                                  Av
                                                                                     e      nu




      Quinn’s Junction Community
                                                                                            e




                                                                                                                    *
      Mixed-Use Node
                                                                                                                                   Lower
      Quinn’s Junction Mobility Hub                                         Old
                                                                                                                                    Deer
                                                                                                                     D
                                                                                                                        ee




                                                                           Town
                                                                                                 Ma




                                                                                                                         rV




                                                                                                                                   Valley
                                                                                                                           a




      Quinn’s Junction Institutional Hub
                                                                                                  in S




                                                                                                                             lle
                                                                                                                              y
                                                                                                                               D
                                                                                                    t




                                                                                                                                   r




      Bonanza Park Mobility Hubs/



                                                                                                                                       *
      Corridor Infill Node
                                                                                                 S R -2




      Resort Center Mobility Hub/
      Corridor Infill Node
                                                                                                 24




      Old Town Mobility Hub/Corridor
      Infill Node                                                                                               Upper


  *
      Neighborhood Mobility Hubs                                                                                 Deer
                                                                                                                Valley



8 |
QUINN’S JUNCTION COMMUNITY
MIXED-USE NODE                                            NEIGHBORHOOD MOBILITY HUBS
The proposed Community Mixed-Use node                     The Neighborhood Mobility Hubs will serve
in Quinn’s Junction will be a larger node that            as smaller-scale, locally focused gateways to
includes retail, services, office, medium density         the regional transportation network. Typically
housing, high density housing, and workforce              located in residential or lower-density mixed-
housing. This node will be located at a key               use areas, these hubs will support local
intersection, like the area along 248 and will            fixed-route buses and on-demand services.
serve a larger area, with retail and services that        They will be designed to offer seamless
require a larger footprint.                               connections to walking and biking facilities
                                                          and, in some cases, limited parking for
                                                          residents to access transit.
QUINN’S JUNCTION MOBILITY HUB
The Mobility Hub in Quinn’s Junction will be a
centralized location that integrates multiple             BONANZA PARK MOBILITY HUBS/
transportation modes, and will serve as a key             CORRIDOR INFILL
transfer point within the regional transportation
                                                          The Bonanza Park Mobility Hubs/ Corridor
network. This mobility hub will include a larger
                                                          Infill areas will be centralized locations that
capture lot with basic services that will serve as
                                                          integrate multiple transportation modes,
gateway to Park City and incentivize commuters
                                                          medium density residential infill (within a 1/4
to use transit to travel into Park City employment
                                                          mile radius), as well as basic services and
centers.
                                                          retail. This node will reinforce the existing
                                                          character of Bonanza Park and focus
                                                          on increasing walkability, aligning with
                                                          the goals of the recently adopted Small
QUINN’S JUNCTION INSTITUTIONAL                            Area Plan of creating a livable mixed-use
                                                          neighborhood, where local owned business
HUB                                                       and entrepreneurship will be incentivized,
The Institutional Node in Quinn’s Junction                and affordable and workforce housing
will support existing institutional areas, with           will be a part of new development. These
uses focused primarily on services and local              hubs will become safe and walkable areas,
institutions, centers of employment, and housing          with an integrated network for transit users,
for employees. It will consolidate existing areas,        pedestrians, and cyclists.
while incorporating housing and basic services
to promote a more self-sustaining and less car-
dependent area.
                                                          RESORT CENTER MOBILITY HUB/
                                                          CORRIDOR INFILL
                                                          The Mobility Hub/ Corridor Infill Node in
OLD TOWN INFILL                                           Resort Center will integrate medium and
The Old Town Infill Node will focus on strengthening      high density housing typologies, as well as
the historic character of the neighborhood while          workforce housing, services, and retail. It will
doing strategic residential infill. The infill will aim   offer an affordable alternative for seasonal
to bring workforce into Old Town while preserving         and year-round employees, and incorporate
the historic character and scale. This will improve       mixed-use in an area that currently lacks
connectivity, enhance resident’s quality of life,         these uses, with the goal of creating a more
stabilize the workforce and business success, and         walkable environment and decreasing car
boost economic vibrancy.                                  dependence.



                                                                                                        | 9
              DW LEGACY DESIGN®
          Legacy Design is the defining element of our practice. It is our
        commitment to an elevated level of design inquiry to arrive at the
       optimal solutions for clients. The process ensures that our projects
       reflect the critical issues facing the built environment and that they
         deliver measurable benefit to clients and communities. It is the
        foundation of the firm’s workshop culture and guides all projects.




                          www.designworkshop.com

10 |
