2020 HOUSING ASSESSMENT AND PLAN
              The Moderate Income Housing Plan,
        an addendum to the 2014 Park City General Plan

    Reviewed and recommended by the Planning Commission on October 16, 2019

       Adopted by City Council on November 7, 2019, Resolution No. 22-2019
A MESSAGE FROM THE MAYOR
The success of the Park City community is dependent on
all of our residents having a place and voice. We have long
been committed to providing housing choices to all those
who have a stake in this community. One of Park City’s
Critical Priorities is Housing, which is defined as the
facilitation of a range of affordable, quality housing
opportunities that meet the life-cycle needs of our residents
at all economic levels.

We strive to welcome a diversity of cultures, household
types, and income levels. This is challenging in a resort
                                                                 Park City Mayor, Andy Beerman
market, where vacation homeowners and investors pressure
the real estate market, raising costs to unaffordable levels.
It requires strategic intervention to keep an inventory of
affordable and attainable housing so that we are a complete
community with housing options for all sectors.

Park City’s Critical Priority of Housing aligns with our other
three Critical Priorities: Transportation, Energy, and Equity.
Each reinforces the other as we seek to provide
energy-efficient homes located near transit that are
available to a diverse section of our residents.

We are working on many fronts to achieve our complete
community. We are examining our Land Management Code
to reduce barriers to providing more affordable housing. We
are utilizing local resources to build units ourselves, and we
are working in partnership with both our housing non-profits
and local developers. Over the past 20 years, the City has
contributed to the affordable housing inventory in a number
of ways: through regulation, partnerships, housing authority
projects, and subsidies to reduce the price of homes.

We applaud the State’s focus on the need for affordable
housing. Our hope is that everyone will join the City in
realizing the goals of this Plan. It will take the entire
community to ensure success.
OVERVIEW
Park City has long been and continues to be committed to housing that is affordable to all sectors
of our world-class resort community. The City’s Long-Term Strategic Plan guides decision-making
and provides structure for incremental, measurable steps to achieve the community’s vision. Council
deemed Housing a critical priority and the City is working to facilitate a range of affordable, quality
housing opportunities that meet the life-cycle needs of Park City households at all economic levels.

The overarching affordable housing goal that guides the City’s strategies over the next six years was
adopted on November 17, 2016, when Council passed HA 01-2016, A Resolution Establishing an
Affordable Housing Production Goal for the Park City Housing Authority. The Resolution states “[t]he
Mayor and City Council do hereby proclaim an affordable housing goal of 800 units by 2026 with an
interim goal of 220 units by 2020.”

                                                       In addition to the City’s Long-Term Strategic
                                                       Plan, many of the City’s affordable housing
                                                       goals and strategies are outlined in the 2014
                                                       Park City General Plan. The General Plan
                                                       establishes two affordable housing goals to
                                                       maintain Park City’s sense of community.

                                                       Goal 7 is to create a diversity of primary
                                                       housing opportunities to address the changing
                                                       needs of residents. “By creating a mix of
                                                       housing stock at varying price ranges, size,
                                                       and design, residents will have local options,
                                                       whether they are seasonal workers, young
                                                       professionals, families, empty nesters, or
                                                       retirees. Having options on all rungs of the
                                                       housing ladder ensures opportunities within the
                                                       community throughout residents’ entire lives.”
                                                       Goal 8 is to increase affordable housing
                                                       opportunities and associated services for the
                                                       workforce of Park City by providing housing
                                                       available to a wide range of income levels.

                                                       The General Plan also contains a Housing
                                                       Toolbox, which establishes land acquisition,
                                                       planning and regulation, financing, and
                                                       maintenance strategies to achieve the City’s
                                                       affordable housing goals.


                                                      1 of 17 | 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan
While the City’s Long-Term Strategic Plan and General Plan establish the overarching affordable
housing policies and goals for the City, the City also maintains a Housing Assessment and Plan that
outlines the City’s goals for a five-year horizon. The City completed the last Housing Assessment and
Plan in 2017 and set forth affordable housing goals through 2022. However, in 2019, the Legislature
enacted Senate Bill 34, Affordable Housing Modifications, and now requires that the City’s Housing
Assessment and Plan be submitted in a certain format with strategies selected from a list of
twenty-three options the Legislature set forth in statute. Additionally, the Legislature requires that the
City Council review this Plan every year and submit an annual report to the Utah Department of
Workforce Services and the Mountainland Association of Governments that outlines the City’s
progress toward achieving its affordable housing goals.

This 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan (“Plan”) captures three of the City’s ongoing strategies and
four of the City’s current affordable housing goals to achieve 800 affordable units for moderate
income households by 2026 and serves as an addendum to the General Plan. This Plan was
reviewed by the Planning Commission and adopted by the City Council on November 7, 2019. The
Plan will be reviewed and adapted as needed on an annual basis.




Silver Star is a mixed-use development with a ski-lift to Park City Mountain Resort. The development includes commercial use,
mixed-income housing, and an outdoor gathering space at the base of the Park City trail system.




                                                                    2 of 17 | 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan
COMMUNITY PROFILE

                     Park City Population
     9,000
                                                                          In the 2010 Census, the permanent, year-round
     8,000                                                                population increased by 187 people for a total
     7,000
     6,000
                                                                          population of 7,558. The 2016 ACS estimate
     5,000                                                                accounted for an additional 506 people. By
     4,000
     3,000
                                                                          2024, the Park City population is projected to
     2,000                                                                increase to 8,405.
     1,000
        0
             1970   1980    1990    2000   2010   2016     2024
                                                         Projection




                                                                          There has been a considerable increase in the
                           Median Age                                     average age of the City’s population. The total
45                                                                        population of people aged 10 to 54 decreased by
40
                                                                          800, but the number of people age 55 and older
35
30
                                                                          increased by over 1,300, or 30 percent. The
25                                                                        median age for Park City was 32.7 in the 2000
20                                                                        Census, but rose to 37.4 in 2010. According to
15                                                                        the 2017 ACE estimates, the median age
10                                                                        increased to 40.4.
 5
 0
             2000                  2010                  2017




                                                                          Park City’s population continues to be
                                                                          primarily white and in most recent years the
                                                     White                Hispanic or Latino population has been
                                                     African American     decreasing. According to 2017 ACS estimates,
                                                     American Indian      Hispanic/Latino persons make up 16 percent of
                                                     Asian                the population, a decline from the 24 percent
                                                     Hispanic or Latino   noted in the 2010 Census. Other population
                                                     Native Hawaiian      groups such as African American, Asian, or
                                                     Other                American Indian have changed little and
                                                                          continue to make up less than three percent of
                                                                          Park City’s population.



                                                                          3 of 17 | 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan
COMMUNITY WORKFORCE
Park City is a world-class resort community that offers world-class amenities, which require a large
workforce. According to the Utah Department of Workforce Services Research & Analysis based on
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 2019 data, the Summit County economy is strong and leisure and
hospitality is the primary employment. However, in general, the hospitality industry pays 20 percent
less than other industries. According to the UDWS, the average monthly wage for leisure and
hospitality workers in 2019 was $2,583, or $30,996 per year. An annual salary of $30,996 is only
40 percent of the Summit County Area Median Income (AMI).

Nearly 1,350 Park City households fall at or below 80 percent AMI, as shown below:


                                                         404 households earn 50 to 80 percent AMI

                                                         372 households earn 30 to 50 percent AMI
                                         30% and below
                                         30-50%
                                         50 to 80%       567 households earn 30 percent AMI and below
                                         Above 80%




City staff calculates a Workforce
Wage (WFW) based on wage data
provided by UDWS to more
accurately reflect the financial
reality of those in need of affordable
housing. The WFW is more
indicative of the financial
constraints under which key
community members must live.
The data from 2019 reveals that
the annual WFW for an average
Park City household was $51,328,
52 percent of AMI.




                                                         4 of 17 | 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan
MARKET CONDITIONS
According to the Utah Association of Realtors August 2019 Local Market Updates by County, the
median sales price for a home in Summit County was $935,000, with a year-to-date average of
$815,000. A family of three must earn 156 percent AMI to afford a home at the median sales price in
Summit County. The Park City Board of Realtors 2019 2nd Quarter Statistics found that the median
sales price for a home in Park City was $2.1 million. A family of three must earn 402 percent of AMI to
afford to purchase a home at the median sales price in Park City. The Board of Realtors also
determined that, while condo sales have declined, the price continues to rise and the median sales
price for a condo in Park City is $810,000. A family of three must earn 155 percent of AMI to afford to
purchase a condo at the median sales price in Park City.

The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) finds that families who pay more
than 30 percent of their income for housing are considered cost burdened. For the nearly 1,350 Park
City households at or below 80 percent AMI, affordable purchase prices are shown below, as well as
attainable purchase prices for those who earn 80 to 120 percent AMI:




                                                     5 of 17 | 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan
AFFORDABLE HOUSING STOCK
An affordable home at 80 percent AMI would have a purchase price of $305,592. With a median sales
price of $2.1 million, the affordable housing gap is significant. Affordable housing is vital to sustain the
City’s sense of community and to ensure that at least 15 percent of the workforce can afford to live
where they work. Currently, there are 550 affordable units in Park City. The timeline below tracks the
development of these units:

•       Prior to 2000, 43 units were built by private developers and 326 units were built with the help of
the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development program. Additionally, Deer Valley Resort built
units to fulfill affordable housing obligations.

•       Between 2000 and 2012, 22 units were built by the Mountainlands Community Housing Trust
with a bridge loan from the City, 122 of the 326 units built prior to 2000 were rehabilitated and
upgraded using Federal Low-Income Housing Tax Credits and gap loans from the City, 59 units were
built by private developers to fulfill affordable housing obligations, 13 were built by the City, and one
was built by Habitat for Humanity.

•     Between 2012-2017, 17 units were constructed to fulfill developer housing obligations, 13 units
were built by the City with a Federal Transportation Administration grant, 14 units were constructed at
Park City Heights, and Habitat for Humanity built another unit.

•      Since 2018, an additional 21 units were completed at Park City Heights, one unit was
completed as a result of a housing obligation, and the City completed 19 affordable units. The City
plans to develop an additional 52 units by 2022.




Snow Creek Cottages, a community of thirteen two- and three-bedroom affordable homes.




                                                                  6 of 17 | 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan
The City’s affordable units have been built – the earliest in 1978 – through a variety of resources,
including Federal Low-Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) and USDA Rural Development funds, the
efforts of local nonprofits, including Mountainlands Community Housing Trust and Habitat for
Humanity, City funding, and private developer fulfillment of housing obligations pursuant to the City’s
Housing Resolution, which outlines affordable housing requirements for land that is annexed into
the City, as well as for residential and commercial Master Planned Developments. The City provides
assistance to bring about the success of a majority of the existing projects through gap loans, land
donations, and fee waivers.

The table below shows the funding sources for the existing affordable housing stock:




                                                     7 of 17 | 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan
The majority of the City’s 550 affordable housing units are 2- and 3-bedroom homes.
However, the housing stock also consists of single-room occupancy, studios, and 1- and 4- bedroom
units, as shown below:




Twenty-two of the 550 units include accessibility features. Nineteen are Type A units and are
wheelchair accessible, and three are Type B units and include adaptable features. Of these 22 units,
five are owner-occupied and 17 are rentals.


The City monitors 189 of the 550 affordable units that have deed restrictions recorded with the City as
the beneficiary. Of these 189 units, 129 units are owner-occupied, and 60 units are long-term rentals.

The following is a profile of households occupying these City-monitored units:

      Units located in the Empire Pass and Deer Valley areas are occupied by employees that work 		
      in the area and earn between 60 and 80 percent of AMI ($59,292 to $79,056)


      Units in the Prospector and Old Town neighborhoods are home to resort, retail, and restaurant 		
      employees who earn between 40 and 60 percent of AMI ($39,528 to $59,292)


      Owner-occupied units are scattered throughout the community and are home to employees of 		
      the Summit County Health Department, Park City-based nonprofits, property management 		
      firms, ski and snowboard industries, Park City Municipal Corporation, the Park City School 		
      District, the Park City Medical Campus, the ski resorts, and local retail and restaurants, who 		
      earn between 60 and 100 percent of AMI ($59,292 to $98,820)




                                                     8 of 17 | 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan
The City’s need for affordable housing units has shifted over time. In 2005, the City determined that
the available low-cost rental housing was meeting the most critical needs of the target workforce.
However, there was a greater need for affordable homeownership opportunities and the City shifted
its efforts to affordable homeownership. In 2012, the City assessed its housing stock and determined
that Park City was still providing an adequate amount of low-income rental units and the City
continued to focus on affordable homeownership.

However, in 2016, the number of properties transferring from long-term rental to nightly rentals
increased with the popularity of online rental sites like Airbnb and VRBO. In 2016, James Wood
completed a Park City Housing Needs Assessment. Wood found that Park City’s rental market is
difficult to survey. There are “very few traditional apartment projects…[and] the rental market is
divided into market segments: apartment units and condominiums for rent, reflecting the needs of the
City’s economic base: winter sports activities.” The study noted that “many of the year-round rental
units are within family homes: 35 percent of all rental units in the city are in detached single-family
homes. Surveying these units regarding rental and vacancy rates is very difficult…”

While it is difficult to fully survey the City’s rental market, occupancy rates in traditional multi-unit
rentals that can be tracked hover around 97 percent, which is virtually a fully occupied rental market.
The assessment also found that the “rental inventory in Park City is much older than the owner
occupied inventory. The typical rental unit was built in 1979…and ten percent of all rental units were
built before 1939.” As a result, not only is the City focusing on increasing affordable long-term rental
units, the City is also working to preserve and rehabilitate existing affordable rental units.
For example, in 2013, the City built 13
studios, known as the Ironhorse Transit
Housing, with a grant from the Federal
Transportation Administration to provide
affordable long-term rentals for transit
employees. Additionally, in 2018, the City
purchased 23 units that were threatened
with foreclosure, renovated the units, and
will rent the units to transit employees.




                                                                                       Ironhorse Transit Housing



                                                       9 of 17 | 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan
ONGOING STRATEGIES
(1) STEWARDSHIP OF EXISTING AFFORDABLE HOUSING INVENTORY

Over the past few years, staff has been and continues to establish a program for stewardship over the
physical structures and the financial stability of deed-restricted properties. Staff is working to:

•   Provide education and technical assistance to HOAs with deed-restricted units;
•   Review annual HOA financials;
•   Utilize the Building Department to inspect properties on an annual basis when the owner submits
    the required compliance affidavit;
•   Meet annually with HOA boards;
•   Establish a quarterly newsletter for owners of affordable units to provide education,
    announcements, and reminders that they are stewards of a valuable community asset.

(2) REVIEW AFFORDABLE HOUSING RESOLUTION 03-2017

City Council passed the first Housing Resolution in 1991. To date, 293 deed-restricted affordable units
have been developed in Park City as a result of the housing obligations required for annexed land
and commercial and residential Master Planned Development units pursuant to the Housing
Resolution. Staff is evaluating recommended amendments to the Housing Resolution that may
provide more equitable distribution of developer housing obligations.

(3) UPDATE AFFORDABLE HOUSING DEED RESTRICTIONS

Affordable housing deed restrictions are critical to carry out the City’s affordable housing policy. These
legal documents are recorded against affordable housing properties to protect the long-term
affordability of the unit. Housing staff is working with the City Attorney’s Office to update the template
for these documents to impose rental restrictions on certain owner-occupied housing to ensure that
affordable units are serving the local workforce. Also, the deed restrictions provide the City with the
right of first refusal when a deed-restricted unit is sold so that the City can ensure the unit is sold to a
qualified buyer.




                                                       10 of 17 | 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan
2020 GOALS AND STRATEGIES | GOAL 1

The City’s ultimate goal is to create 800 affordable housing units by 2026. The 800 affordable
housing units will help 15% of the City’s workforce live within City limits. The goals and strategies
below outline the City’s steps to achieve its goal.

GOAL 1: BUILD AFFORDABLE AND ATTAINABLE UNITS ON CITY-OWNED PROPERTY
THROUGH PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS.

City Council recognizes that private developers alone will never meet the affordable housing needs
of the community. Land and construction costs are simply too high, making it difficult to provide
affordable prices without subsidies. Current and future housing obligations associated with
development agreements are projected to net around 400 units. To achieve the goal of 800 affordable
units by 2026, the remaining units will be developed directly by the City, or in partnership with other
entities. To that end, in 2016 the City Council committed approximately $19 million in Lower Park Ave
RDA bond funds and $5 million in resort community tax revenue to launch a multi-year development
pipeline. These funds subsidize land costs and up to 20% of construction costs for affordable units,
and eighty percent revolves back to fund future affordable housing projects.

                                                              This year, the City completed Woodside
                                                              Park, Phase I, shown on the left. This
                                                              project features eight affordable
                                                              owner-occupied units.

                                                              Woodside Park, Phase II is slated to add
                                                              50-60 more affordable units to the
                                                              affordable housing stock in the next few
                                                              years.




Photo Credit: Brooke Wilson (2019).



                                                      11 of 17 | 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PIPELINE

The following affordable housing projects have been completed since the City’s 2017 Housing
Assessment and Plan or are in the works:

•     Ivory Homes, under a sales agreement with the City, will build 79 affordable homes as part 		
      of their larger Park City Heights development in Quinn’s Junction. To date, 35 are
      completed and 33 are in the pipeline for completion this year. The final 11 homes will be
      completed within the next few years.

•     In 2018, the City purchased 11 units in the Central Park Condominiums that were slated for 		
      market-rate sale. The units are now deed restricted and occupied by qualified buyers.

•     In 2018, the City finished construction of The Retreat at the Park, eight single-family homes. 		
      These units are owner-occupied by qualified households.

•     In 2018, the City purchased 23 affordable units in the Prospector Condos, renovated the units, 		
      and will rent the units to the City’s transit employees.

•     In 2019, the City completed Woodside Park Phase I, eight owner-occupied units.

• The following City-sponsored projects are in progress:
		
		       1875 Homestake Drive (50-60 units)
		       Woodside Park Phase II (50-60 units)
		       Arts & Culture District (number of units to be determined)

•     A balance of 13.225 units will be built to fulfill the affordable housing obligations of private
      developers working in the Empire Pass area.

•     Affordable housing units will be considered for all the City’s future capital projects.




                                                      12 of 17 | 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan
2020 GOALS AND STRATEGIES | GOAL 2

GOAL 2: DEVELOP A FINANCIAL STRATEGY TO USE HOUSING AUTHORITY BONDS TO
BUILD HOUSING AUTHORITY-OWNED LOW AND MODERATE INCOME RENTALS.

The most affordable rental units are those built or substantially rehabilitated using federal Low Income
Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) and those subsidized by HUD and USDA programs. HUD programs are
in such high demand in more populated areas of Utah, there are limited subsidies for Summit County.
LIHTC is no longer serving the lowest income households in the community. According to the 2016
Park City Housing Needs Assessment conducted by James Wood, “[o]nly fifty-nine of the tax credit
units…are targeted for very low income households” at or below 50 percent of AMI ($49,410 for a
family of three). As a result, more rental units for tenants with a very low income are needed to ensure
that people of all income levels are able to live and work in Park City.

The Budget Department is working on a strategy to finance affordable rental units for low and
moderate income individuals. The Housing Authority will issue Housing Authority bonds to finance a
portion of affordable housing construction on City-owned property with up to a 20% subsidy from City
funds. The City subsidized construction value and property will be donated to the Housing Authority.
The Housing Authority will own the affordable housing units to be used for low to moderate income
rentals to ensure long-term affordability of the units. This strategy will be implemented for an
upcoming project that includes affordable units and may be used to fund another City affordable
housing project.




                                                     13 of 17 | 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan
2020 GOALS AND STRATEGIES | GOAL 3

GOAL 3: IMPLEMENT ZONING INCENTIVES FOR AFFORDABLE UNITS IN NEW
DEVELOPMENTS; REDUCE PARKING FOR CERTAIN AFFORDABLE HOUSING; AMEND THE
LAND MANAGEMENT CODE TO INCENTIVIZE AFFORDABLE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.

In 2017, Planning staff began reviewing the Land Management Code to identify potential impediments
to affordable housing development, such as:

      Density and relationship to open space;
      Unit size and relationship to open space;
      Usability of open space; and
      Reduction in parking relative to size of unit.

Staff brought proposed Land Management Code amendments to the Commission and Council in
2018. Upon direction of the Council, the City hired land use consultants Cascadia Partners to
investigate the financial feasibility of proposed amendments to the City’s Master Planned Affordable
Housing Development. Cascadia is in the process of completing their findings report and Planning
staff will bring forth recommended amendments to the Master Planned Development affordable
housing provisions based on Cascadia’s findings.

Also, Planning staff proposed amendments to the Land Management Code parking regulations for
Accessory Apartments, the City’s Accessory Dwelling Units. Planning staff will continue to work with
the Commission and Council to investigate potential amendments to the Land Management Code
that may incentivize the construction and rental of affordable Accessory Apartments with reduced
parking requirements.




                                                       14 of 17 | 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan
2020 GOALS AND STRATEGIES | GOAL 4

GOAL 4: ENCOURAGE AFFORDABLE HOUSING NEAR TRANSIT. LOCATE CITY HOUSING
PROJECTS WITHIN 1/4-MILE OF A FIXED ROUTE TRANSIT STOP.

The 2014 General Plan discusses the importance of planning and creating Transit-Oriented
Developments through clustering dense housing and mixed-uses to support a high capacity and
efficient mass transit system with access to employment centers, shopping, and government services.
The Housing Toolbox recommends locating Affordable Housing in Transit-Oriented Development
Zones. Goal 5 of the General Plan is to be a leader in energy efficiency and conservation of natural
resources, reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least fifteen percent (15%) below 2005 levels in
2020. To achieve this goal, Community Planning Strategy 5.2 encourages the identification of
locations within existing neighborhoods in which increased density and/or mixed use are compatible,
are located within ¼-mile of public transit, and would decrease trip generation and associated vehicle
miles traveled.

As the City advances the Critical Community Priority of Transportation, Planning staff will work with
Transportation staff to evaluate and recommend potential Land Management Code revisions that
support affordable housing units near transit that align with the Park City Long-Range Transportation
Master Plan, scheduled for adoption in spring of 2020.

                                                                     Woodside Park Phase II, shown
                                                                     on the left, is slated for
                                                                     construction in the next few
                                                                     years and will provide 50-60
                                                                     affordable units. The units are
                                                                     located in Old Town and are
                                                                     within walking distance to the
                                                                     City’s free transit.




Rendering Credit: Method Studio, Inc. (2019).



                                                    15 of 17 | 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan
IMPLEMENTATION TIMELINE

GOAL 1: BUILD AFFORDABLE AND ATTAINABLE UNITS ON CITY-OWNED PROPERTY
THROUGH PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS.

Complete 58 ownership units and 70 rental units by 2022.
Oversight: Jason Glidden, Housing Development Manager

GOAL 2: DEVELOP A FINANCIAL STRATEGY TO USE HOUSING AUTHORITY BONDS TO
BUILD HOUSING AUTHORITY-OWNED LOW AND MODERATE INCOME RENTALS.

Finalize the financial strategy by end of 2020 and begin rental unit development.
Oversight: Jason Glidden, Housing Development Manager
            Nate Rockwood, Director of Redevelopment & Capital Management

GOAL 3: IMPLEMENT ZONING INCENTIVES FOR AFFORDABLE UNITS IN NEW
DEVELOPMENTS; REDUCE PARKING FOR CERTAIN AFFORDABLE HOUSING; AMEND THE
LAND MANAGEMENT CODE TO INCENTIVIZE AFFORDABLE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.

Finalize Code review and revisions of the Land Management Code by the end of 2020.
Oversight: Hannah Tyler, Senior Planner, AICP; Rebecca Ward, Land Use Policy Planner
           Jason Glidden, Housing Development Manager

GOAL 4: ENCOURAGE AFFORDABLE HOUSING NEAR TRANSIT. LOCATE CITY HOUSING
PROJECTS WITHIN 1/4-MILE OF A FIXED ROUTE TRANSIT STOP.

The Transportation Master Plan is scheduled for adoption in the spring of 2020. Review and revise
the Land Management Code by the end of 2021.
Oversight: Hannah Tyler, Senior Planner, AICP; Rebecca Ward, Land Use Policy Planner
           Jason Glidden, Housing Development Manager




                                                    16 of 17 | 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan
FAIR HOUSING
The City works with local organizations to distribute information on affordable housing opportunities
and to solicit feedback. These organizations include PC Unidos, the Christian Center, Peace House,
Planned Parenthood, Holy Cross Ministries, the National Ability Center, and the Park City School
District Latino Program. The City translates its affordable housing information to meet the needs of
local tourists and populations.

In accordance with state and federal laws, Park City exercises the authority to plan, zone, and
regulate land use in promoting the community’s health, safety, and welfare. This Plan
acknowledges and upholds the Utah Fair Housing Act by promoting the equal protection and
equitable treatment of all people who lawfully seek to rent, lease, purchase, or develop real
property within Park City. The City’s housing policies, plans and Municipal Code strictly prohibit
discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status, source of
income, disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity.




                                                        17 of 17 | 2020 Housing Assessment and Plan
