                                                                                 153 North 100 East
                                                                                   Lehi, UT 84043
                                                                                    (801) 768-7100

Minutes of the Pre Council and Regular Session of the Lehi City Council held Tuesday, July
13, 2021, at Lehi City in the Council Chamber, 153 N 100 E. Lehi, UT.

Members Present:        Mark Johnson, Mayor
                        Paige Albrecht, Council Member
                        Chris Condie, Council Member
                        Paul Hancock, Council Member
                        Katie Koivisto, Council Member
                        Mike Southwick, Council Member

Others Present: Jason Walker, City Administrator; Cameron Boyle, Assistant City Administrator;
Beau Thomas, Assistant to the City Administrator; Kim Struthers, Community Development
Director; Ryan Wood, City Attorney; Lorin Powell, City Engineer; Dean Lundell, Finance
Director; Chief Jeremy Craft, Fire Department; Andy Gowans, Management Analyst; and Teisha
Wilson, City Recorder.

Pre-Council, 5:30 p.m.
1. Welcome and Invocation
Mayor Johnson welcomed everyone and noted that all Councilmembers were present and that
Councilor Koivisto was participating electronically by phone. Councilor Southwick gave the
invocation.

2. Presentations and Reports

Item 2.2 was heard first.

2.2 Discussion of General Land Use Plan update
Mr. Struthers stated that they’ve been working with Engineering to address utility concerns with
the update and believes they are now ready to present the update to the Planning Commission
and City Council. The Council would like to see one more Open House before the plan is
approved. Mr. Struthers stated that they would also like to do a Joint Work Session before it’s
presented for adoption. The timeline they are looking at is having the Open House and Joint
Work Session in August, then adopting the final plan in September or early October.

2.1 Discussion of new State Requirements for Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs)
Mr. Struthers stated that the new law passed by the State Legislature for accessory dwelling units
will go into effect on October 1st. The Planning Department has been working to bring the City’s
current Ordinance into compliance and will bring that to the Council for consideration. Concerns
with infrastructure and utilities were discussed as this will allow for many more ADUs than was
originally planned. The State Code will allow for some areas of the city to have restrictions, but
the City will have to decide where those areas should be.

2.3 Hutchings Museum Presentation

Lehi City Council Meeting                       1                                     July 13, 2021
Daniela Larsen, Executive Director of the museum, gave a presentation to update the Council.
She informed the Council of the success with many of their programs and shared their upcoming
events. Ms. Larsen inquired if the Archives would be willing to move and maintain the Mary
Ann Judd paintings. Mayor Johnson stated that they will ask about it. Ms. Larsen also said that
they will soon be presenting their newest concept for the museum expansion.

2.4 Presentation on CharityVision's SightBuddies program
This item was moved to the July 27th meeting.


3. Agenda Questions
Mayor Johnson reminded the Council that item #9 was pulled from the agenda.

4. Administrative Report
Chief Jeremy Craft stated that their new restrictions worked well and that they had a large turn
out at City parks. He informed the Council that they will continue with the same restrictions
through the July 24th holiday.

5. Mayor and Council Reports
None.

The Council recessed at approximately 6:59 p.m.
The meeting reconvened at approximately 7:10 p.m.


Regular Session, 7:10 p.m.
1. Welcome, Roll Call, Pledge of Allegiance
Mayor Johnson welcomed everyone and noted that all Councilmembers were present. Councilor
Southwick led the Pledge.

2. Presentations and Reports
2.1 Presentation of GFOA's Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting.
The Lehi City Finance Department was presented with the award for excellence in financial
reporting.

3. 20 Minute Citizen Input
Sterling Bronson informed the Council that the Boots and Badges fundraiser event was
successful, and they were able to exceed their goal. He said a check will be delivered to the City
Treasure and will be allocated for equipment for first responders.

Angie Lethbridge expressed concern with the tennis/pickle ball facility that was approved by the
Council. She was concerned of the precedent it would set and the overall message it’s sending
which is that property owners can sell their land for commercial use regardless of the General
Plan land use. She encouraged the Council to follow the master plan.

Eric Johnson stated that the impact fees assessed for ADUs is a burden and should be removed.
He felt that it’s not legal to impose those fees under State code. He would also like to see how
the fees were calculated.
Lehi City Council Meeting                        2                                     July 13, 2021
4. Consent Agenda
4.1 Approve Minutes from the June 29, 2021 City Council meeting.

      Motion: Councilor Southwick moved to approve the consent agenda items. Councilor
              Albrecht seconded the motion.

    Roll Call Vote: Councilor Albrecht, Yes; Councilor Condie, Yes; Councilor Hancock, Yes;
    Councilor Koivisto, Yes; and Councilor Southwick, Yes. The motion passed unanimously.


5. Consideration of Resolution #2021-42, approving the transfer of a nonexclusive
   franchise granted to Veracity Networks in 2017 to FirstDigital Communications.
   A representative from Veracity was available to answer questions.

    Motion:     Councilor Condie moved to approve Resolution #2021-42, approving the transfer
                of a nonexclusive franchise granted to Veracity Networks in 2017 to FirstDigital
                Communications. Councilor Hancock seconded the motion.

    Roll Call Vote: Councilor Albrecht, Yes; Councilor Condie, Yes; Councilor Hancock, Yes;
    Councilor Koivisto, Yes; and Councilor Southwick, Yes. The motion passed unanimously.


6. Consideration of Resolution #2021-40, adopting a certified tax rate for the City of Lehi
   for fiscal year 2022.
   Dean Lundell, Finance Director, stated that this is a requirement and needs to be adopted
   each year. He then explained how the State determines the tax rate each year. He stated that it
   may be necessary soon to adjust the tax rate to account for inflation.

    Motion:     Councilor Hancock moved to approve Resolution #2021-40, adopting a certified
                tax rate for the City of Lehi for fiscal year 2022. Councilor Koivisto seconded the
                motion.

    Roll Call Vote: Councilor Albrecht, Yes; Councilor Condie, Yes; Councilor Hancock, Yes;
    Councilor Koivisto, Yes; and Councilor Southwick, Yes. The motion passed unanimously.


7. Sand Pit Well Development Project
   a. Consideration of Resolution #2021-41, approving an agreement with Widdison Turbine
   Service for the Sand Pit Well development.
   b. Approve Purchase Order

    Gary Thomas, with the Water Department, was representing the applicant.

    Motion:     Councilor Condie moved to approve the Purchase Order and Resolution #2021-41,
                approving an agreement with Widdison Turbine Service for the Sand Pit Well
                development. Councilor Southwick seconded the motion.

Lehi City Council Meeting                        3                                     July 13, 2021
    Roll Call Vote: Councilor Albrecht, Yes; Councilor Condie, Yes; Councilor Hancock, Yes;
    Councilor Koivisto, Yes; and Councilor Southwick, Yes. The motion passed unanimously.


8. Consideration of Final subdivision approval for Willow Point Phase 3, a 110-unit
   residential development located at 2100 North 4100 West.
   Brandon Watson, with Edge Homes, was representing the applicant.

    Motion:     Councilor Southwick moved to grant Final subdivision approval for Willow Point
                Phase 3, a 110-unit residential development located at 2100 North 4100 West;
                including the Development Review Committee and Planning Commission
                Comments. Councilor Albrecht seconded the motion.

    Roll Call Vote: Councilor Albrecht, Yes; Councilor Condie, Yes; Councilor Hancock, Yes;
    Councilor Koivisto, Yes; and Councilor Southwick, Yes. The motion passed unanimously.


9. Consideration of Concept approval for the 2100 North Subdivision, a 65-lot residential
   development located at approximately 2100 North 2300 West. (This item was tabled at
   the June 29th meeting)
   This item was pulled from the agenda.


10. Consideration of Resolution #2021-43, appointing a new member representative to the
    North Pointe Solid Waste Special Services District.

    Motion:     Councilor Condie moved to approve Resolution #2021-43, appointing a new
                member representative to the North Pointe Solid Waste Special Services District.
                Councilor Hancock seconded the motion.

    Roll Call Vote: Councilor Albrecht, Yes; Councilor Condie, Yes; Councilor Hancock, Yes;
    Councilor Koivisto, Yes; and Councilor Southwick, Yes. The motion passed unanimously.


Jason Harris stated that he missed the citizen input and asked to speak. Mayor Johnson allowed
it. Mr. Harris encouraged the city to look at ways to fund an art museum in the City.


11. Adjournment
   With no further business to come before the City Council at this time, Councilor Hancock
    moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilor Koivisto seconded the motion. The motion passed
    unanimously. The meeting adjourned at approximately 8:23 a.m.




Lehi City Council Meeting                       4                                    July 13, 2021
Approved: July 27, 2021                    Attest:



____________________________________       ___________________________________
Mark Johnson, Mayor                        Teisha Wilson, City Recorder




Lehi City Council Meeting              5                             July 13, 2021
