                                                                                153 North 100 East
                                                                                  Lehi, UT 84043
                                                                                   (801) 768-7100

Minutes of the Work Session of the Lehi City Council held Tuesday, February 4, 2020, at the
Lehi City Administration Building, 153 North 100 East, Lehi, Utah. The meeting began at
approximately 8:30 AM.

Present:     Mark Johnson, Mayor
             Paige Albrecht, Council Member
             Chris Condie, Council Member
             Paul Hancock, Council Member
             Katie Koivisto, Council Member
             Mike Southwick, Council Member

Others Present:      Jason Walker, City Administrator; Cameron Boyle, Assistant City
Administrator; Ryan Wood, City Attorney; Kim Struthers, Community Development Director;
Lorin Powell, City Engineer; Dean Lundell, Finance Director; Steve Marchbanks, Parks
Superintendent; Beau Thomas, Assistant to the City Administrator; Shaye Ruitenbeek,
Management Analyst; Teisha Wilson, City Recorder; Scott Sampson, Risk Manager; Jeremy
Estes, Fleet Manager; Chief Jeremy Craft, Fire Department; David Kitchen, Human Resources
Director; Dean Lundell, Finance Director; Alyson Alger, Treasure; Karma Bentson, Accountant;
Tyler Kelsey, IT Manager; Brent Thomas, Power Department; Marilyn Banasky; Information
Center Manager; Morgan Cummings, Justice Court; Dan Harrison, Legacy Center Director; Chief
Darren Paul, Police Department.

1. Welcome Breakfast
   Mayor Johnson welcomed everyone and noted that all Councilmembers were present. Shaye
   Simkins offered the prayer.

2. Team Building
   Jeff Thompson, BYU Professor, led a group activity and then discussed how our background
   and experiences can mold our values and how that shapes discussions. He also discussed how
   our personalities and self-monitoring can affect how we debate and discuss issues.

3. Council Assignments
   Councilor Southwick led the discussion of Council assignments. Mayor Johnson stated that they
   need a Councilor assigned to the Utah Valley Clean Air Task Force that would also work with
   the City’s Environmental Sustainability Committee. The Mayor stated that he will now be
   attending the IHC Community Council meetings. Below are the new assignments that were
   made.

   UV Clean Air- Councilor Hancock
   Lehi Irrigation- Councilor Hancock
   TSSD- Councilor Koivisto


Lehi City Council Work Session                 1                                  February 4, 2020
   Utah Lake Commission – Councilor Condie
   Library- Councilor Koivisto
   Youth Council- Councilor Albrecht, with Councilors Condie and Koivisto as alternates.
   North Point- Jason Walker
   Round-Up: Councilor Southwick with, with Councilor Koivisto as alternate.
   ULCT- Councilor Condie

4. Parks Impact Fees
   Steve Marchbanks reported on the City’s impact fees allocation. He stated that they’ve
   committed to build parks at trigger points for various development and showed those
   allocations. Mr. Marchbanks explained the cost breakdown for building parks and how
   expensive they are. He stated that other challenges with building parks are helping special
   interests, earmarking impact fees, inconsistency of development costs, staff support, and higher
   maintenance cost per area due to increased xeriscape.

5. Financial Policies Discussion
   Dean Lundell discussed the city’s current financial policies. Some of the highlights include
   conservative revenue projections, and one-time revenues will not be used for on-going
   expenditures. He also stated that the city will adhere to all bond covenants and strive to maintain
   the best possible credit rating. He stated that they will maintain the general fund reserves
   between 20-25%. All fees are intended to cover the full cost of the service. He stated that they
   are in the process of developing a financial plan for long-term needs, and they are looking
   forward to multi-year budgeting that would look ahead 5-10 years. Mr. Lundell informed the
   Council how property tax rates work in Utah and how they are accessed. He also explained the
   truth in taxation process should the Council be interested in raising property taxes. He stated
   that new growth leads to new revenue and expenditures. There was discussion about being
   fiscally responsible and the need to raise property taxes just to account for inflation. Mr. Lundell
   stated that they’d like to create a property tax policy and things to consider in that policy would
   be inflation, growth, new programs, and timing. This new policy would be based on an analysis.

6. Lunch

7. Crucial Conversations
   Al Switzler, the author of Crucial Conversations, introduced his book. He discussed how
   important communication is when solving problems.

8. Resident Survey
   Y2 Analytics presented on the recent resident survey. She stated that 788 citizens completed
   the survey with a margin of error at +-3. Growth is a concern for residents and it’s all along the
   Wasatch Front, not just in Lehi. Overall, there are some negative shifts in direction for the city.
   The most important issue for residents now and in the future are growth, and traffic
   infrastructure. Residents also felt that there is not enough open space and recreational
   opportunities.

9. Goals/Visioning
   Jason Walker stated that we try our best to provide high quality service in a cost-effective way.



Lehi City Council Work Session                     2                                    February 4, 2020
   Councilor Condie stated that it’s easy to think about how a decision will affect the now, but
   there should be consideration for the long term. Councilor Southwick stated that we are not
   competing against other cities, we are just trying to make our city better than it was yesterday.

   Cameron Boyle asked the Council to consider what will make Lehi City a great place to live
   work and play in the next 10 years. Some of the responses noted by the Council were safety,
   location, community, small town with big city amenities, family friendly, public transit,
   decisions are made with families in mind, a variety of things to do, housing diversity, low cost
   of doing business, fiber network, good infrastructure, city willing to help businesses, adequate
   parking in all areas of the city, follow through with promises, increase trust, new regional parks,
   more sustainable, increase open space and trails, diversity, engaged public employees, creative
   solutions, above and beyond basic services, higher education opportunities, and health care
   facilities.

   The City’s goal for the last few years has been to develop a cutting-edge, family-centric
   community. The family-centric part encompasses the small town feel and preserving our
   history.

   There was discussion about how to increase the general fund for more parks and open space.
   Mr. Lundell stated that their options could include raising power rates, bonding, property tax
   increase or implementing a RAP tax.

10. Financial Report
    Dean Lundell showed the Council the projected sales tax for this year. The growth in sales for
    Lehi has outpaced the growth in the State. He also showed the general fund balance. He went
    through the operating income and other data in every utility fund. He stated that our utility rates
    are significantly lower than surrounding city’s rates.

11. Capital Improvement Plans
    Jason Walker discussed the upcoming capital improvements plans and noted that the Police
    Department is expected to complete their building this fall.

12. Planning Presentation
    Kim Struthers presented on the growth in west Lehi which is where most of our growth is
    happening. Mayor Johnson stated that he would like to see more Commercial zoning along the
    2100 North corridor. Mr. Struthers showed other developments that are complete, nearly
    complete, or are going through the site plan process. He presented a summary of current
    development which contains a lot of office space. He showed where the TOD overlays are
    located and noted that the Lehi Tech TOD is under construction, and another TOD has been
    approved near Traverse Mountain. He stated that to get ahead of the planning curve they are
    working on updating the Transit Master Plan. They had many partners working on this and it
    will include all forms of transit. He noted that they’ve been working hard on the General Plan
    updates. They are also working on a downtown parking study to see what’s being utilized and
    the study can help them determine when a parking structure may be needed. The Rail Trail
    phase 3 is being constructed along with pedestrian bridges. Other projects there are working on
    include the 700 South cycle track which is funded by MAG, bike lane striping, a city campus



Lehi City Council Work Session                     3                                    February 4, 2020
   master plan, moderate income housing plan, bike and pedestrian master plan, bed and
   breakfast/short-term rental regulations, crime and accident data analysis to improve
   intersections and safety, fiscal sustainability, and land use (impacts of development vs
   revenues).

13. Misc. Updates
    Jason Walker stated that they are still researching fiber networks. Shaye Ruitenbeek presented
    a legislative update on the bills being considered by the State Legislature that would affect
    Lehi.

    David Kitchen stated that they are looking at additional benefits to retain and attract employees.
    His department conducts competitive wage studies, and the city’s medical is trending well so
    it would still be a single digit renewal rate.

    Cameron Boyle distributed the annual report of the Environmental Sustainability Committee.
    They are going to focus on specific issues on a quarterly basis.

    The Mayor and Council discussed saying a prayer before the public meetings. It was
    determined that the Council will offer the prayer before each meeting and it will rotate through
    each Councilmember.

    There was discussion regarding the Baum advertising contract and if they should proceed. The
    Council reached consensus that they would like to start with naming rights. They agreed that
    it’s important to look for alternate forms of funding for parks.

14. Adjournment
    With no further business to come before the City Council at this time the meeting adjourned
    at approximately 5:15 p.m.




Approved:                                        Attest:



____________________________________ ___________________________________
Mark Johnson, Mayor                  Teisha Wilson, Deputy Recorder




Lehi City Council Work Session                    4                                    February 4, 2020
