                        MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
                         PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                   Tuesday, March 3, 2020
                                          6:30 p.m.
                                  Holladay Municipal Center
                                    4580 South 2300 East

ATTENDANCE:

Planning Commission Members:                        City Staff:
Marianne Ricks, Chair                               Paul Allred, Community Development Director
Jan Bradshaw                                        Jonathan Teerlink, City Planner
Troy Holbrook
Chris Layton
Alyssa Lloyd
Ann Mackin

WORK SESSION
The Work Session was called to order at approximately 6:30 p.m. The agenda items were reviewed
and discussed. Procedural issues pertaining to the public hearing items were discussed. Concerns
expressed by the neighbors with the request for a Residential Site Grading Permit were described.
Wall height and encroachment issues were addressed. Community Development Director, Paul
Allred suggested that going forward, these types of requests are approved by staff and that they
not come to the PC.

With regard to the Weyburn Estates Concept Plan, a determination needed to be made as to
whether the applicant can develop the number of units he is proposing based on design issues. A
PUD conditional use is requested but the intent tonight would be to just look at the layout. Slope
issues were discussed. Road width issues were addressed. Staff measured the distance between
Tobermory and the existing driveway and the width of the driveway. Public Works Director,
Tosh Kano recommended that Tobermory be widened to 30 feet at the entrance at least 40 feet
back from Spring Lane and to add a third lane on the west for left in and left out turns. Traffic
generation issues were discussed. Tobermory currently generates 240 car trips per day. Mr.
Kano’s opinion was that a combined 40 homes on a 16-foot wide lane will not work.

Commissioner Mackin moved to adjourn. Commissioner Lloyd seconded the motion. The
motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Meeting adjourned at approximately 6:58 p.m.

CONVENE REGULAR MEETING – Public Welcome and Chair Opening Statement.
Chair Marianne Ricks called the Regular Meeting to order at approximately 7:00 p.m. and read
the Commission statement.

Chair Ricks moved to modify the order of the agenda items and move item two to the end.
Commissioner Mackin seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Troy Holbrook-Aye, Jan


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 03/03/2020
                                                1
Bradshaw-Aye, Chris Layton-Aye Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Ann Mackin-Aye, and Chair Marianne
Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

PUBLIC HEARING
1.     Zone Map Amendment – Rezone from R-1-10 to R-1-8 – 2417 East Butternut Road.
City Planner, Jonathan Teerlink presented the staff report and stated that the request involves
consideration of a zone map amendment for property located at 2417 East Butternut Road. He
explained that consideration of applications is guided by the General Plan, which bisects the
proposed development area. On the south end toward 4500 South is a General Plan district that
foresees duplex zoning as a transitional residential housing product. The north half is low-density.

The applicant is requesting a zone change from R-1-10, which allows one home per 10,000 square
feet to R-1-8, which allows one home per 8,000 square feet. Two homes currently exist in the
development, one of which is a duplex. The intent was to reorganize the lot lines and homes to
build a single-family home on a smaller, 8,000 square-foot lot. The other two remaining lots will
be 9,000 to 10,000 square feet in size. Mr. Teerlink explained that consideration of rezone
applications are guided by Code. He considered it a reasonable request to utilize the extra land
that is available for a detached single-family home on 4500 South. The third sliver piece is half
of a separate lot that was originally platted when the subdivision was with the County.

The applicant, Nick Mingo indicated that he plans to develop and sell all three lots.

Chair Ricks opened the public hearing.

Cheryl Farr gave her address as 4400 Butternut Road and spoke on behalf of herself and her
husband who was unable to attend. She was not opposed to improving the property but was
objected to the change of zoning from R-1-10 to R-1-8. She was opposed for three reasons. First,
she was concerned about the impact the rezoning will have on the density of the neighborhood.
She and her husband have lived on Butternut Road for nearly 24 years and have seen an increase
in density since that time. She expressed concern with an existing duplex on the east side of
Butternut Road and believes it is inconsistent with zoning and has been ignored. She reported that
a zone change from R-1-10 to R-1-8 would most likely result in new homes having access to 4500
South from Butternut Road, which increases the traffic and density of an already busy intersection.
Ms. Farr stated that the neighborhood desired to limit structures to single-family homes that
promote open space and larger properties. She was concerned about the potential to feel crowded
by building three homes on two parcels of property. Doing so would not be in harmony with what
exists in the neighborhood.

Second, Mrs. Farr was concerned about safety. Increased traffic at the intersection of 4500 South
and Butternut Road is already difficult and has proven dangerous for residents. High school
students use this route to get to school. One of her main concerns was the safety increased traffic
and density will pose to children and pedestrians. Third, Mrs. Farr was concerned about the
character of the neighborhood. The neighborhood is older with mostly rambler, one-level homes.
She was worried that a change in zoning from R-1-10 to R-1-8 would result in decreased lot sizes
and cause developers to build multi-story homes. Mrs. Farr explained that the owner of the
property is an investor and not someone who lives in the neighborhood. She assumed that the
motivations for development were being driven by financial gain rather than concern for the


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 03/03/2020
                                                 2
neighborhood. She reiterated that she and her husband are not opposed to development but object
to the proposed zone change.

Jeff? Beck gave his address as 4416 South Butternut Road and stated that he accesses his home off
of Butternut Road. His family has lived in the home for the last 10 years. The homes across the
street have been a revolving door of rentals and are not well maintained. He expressed support for
the proposed rezone. Mr. Beck believed that the lot sizes are large enough to accommodate R-1-
8 zoning. He commented that development of the site would trigger a requirement for sidewalks,
which he was in favor of. He also noted that the new development will attract new homes, new
families, and permanent residents.

Caitlyn Beck gave her address as 4416 South Butternut Road and expressed support for the
proposed rezone. While not ideal, it will improve the neighborhood and she was pleased that
sidewalks will be added. In terms of lot size, Mrs. Beck mentioned that there are quite a few lots
in the neighborhood that are currently less than one-quarter acre in size, which is similar to the lot
sizes proposed. Her family lives in a two-story home and more of the same would not look out of
place.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

It was clarified that there are two homes across the street from the proposed lots. It was noted that
there was a rezone about 18 months ago at which time they changed the lot on 4500 South and the
.26-acre lot was acquired.

Commissioner Lloyd asked if curb cuts and sidewalks will be required on the east side of the road.
Mr. Teerlink stated that it would be. If the rezone were granted there was some question as to
whether the City would attempt to connect to the existing sidewalk. Mr. Teerlink stated that the
issue could be brought to the attention of the City Manager.

Commissioner Mackin asked about the square footage of the homes that are proposed to be built
on the 8,000 and 10,000 square-foot lots. Mr. Teerlink stated that the Code the allowance for
setbacks, height, and size is based upon the lot size. As the lot size decreases, the house size scale
drops considerably. Other recent projects on 4500 South were identified. If the property were to
remain zoned R-1-10 and all of the lots were included in PUD, the applicants would not be able to
develop three homes. Mr. Teerlink explained that the required lot width for R-1-10 differs from
R-1-8. The other concern was that 4470 South, which runs east and west, is not fully dedicated to
the public and detracts from these areas.

The applicant reported that the lots meet the area requirement of 10,000 square feet but in the R-
1-10 zone the lot width must be a minimum of 80 feet and these lots are just under that. The issue
was a width issue rather than an area issue. The proposed building footprints range in size from
2,500 square feet to nearly 4,000 square feet. The frontage keeps them from meeting the R-1-10
zone requirements.

Troy Holbrook asked if it was necessary to specify an access coming off of 4470 South for Lot 3.
Mr. Teerlink stated that that could be considered once the plat is presented. It was clarified that
the R-1-8 zone only allows for detached units. The applicant stated that there will be no more than
three detached single-family homes on the lots. No duplexes are allowed.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 03/03/2020
                                                  3
Commissioner Lloyd moved to recommend approval to the City Council of a Zone Map
Amendment to rezone property located at 2417 East Butternut Road from R-1-10 to R-1-8. The
motion was seconded by Commissioner Bradshaw. Vote on motion: Chris Layton-Aye, Alyssa
Lloyd-Aye, Ann Mackin-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, and Chair Marianne
Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

Mr. Allred stated that the final decision will be made by the City Council with an additional notice
to be sent to everyone in the neighborhood within 500 feet.

Chair Ricks moved to restore the agenda to its original order. Commissioner Bradshaw
seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Chris Layton-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Ann Mackin-Aye,
Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, and Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion passed
unanimously.

2.      Ordinance Amendment – 13.98 Land Use Violations for Illegal Operation of a Short-
        Term Rental.
Mr. Teerlink presented the staff report and stated that the request is from the City Council to review
the enforcement action for land use violations of short-term rentals that are operating contrary to
the existing ordinance. Short-term rentals are a land use that is allowed only in certain zones and
on certain roads. Even if the land use criteria are met, the applicant must come before the Planning
Commission for approval of the short-term rental. The Planning Commission then reviews the
specific list of standards and issues a Conditional Use Permit. Currently, two short-term rentals
have been approved by the City and two bed and breakfasts. The issue the Council is dealing with
involves concerns with the operation of short-term rentals operating outside of the law. Some are
operating quietly while others are not. The Council is interested in strengthening the City’s
enforcement action and procedure as land use violations as a Class B Misdemeanor with fines
imposed.

Chair Ricks opened the public hearing.

Brian Moench gave his address as 4091 Splendor Way. He spoke in favor of the proposed
amendment in that there is a property across the street from him that is in stark violation of the
ordinance. It is a single-family home that has been deliberately remodeled into a multi-unit rental.
The business model the property owner is using is a short-term rental. The front yard of the
property is occupied by vehicles constantly and there is no yard left. Many of the vehicles belong
to the renters and are parked on the streets on nights they are to be removed to allow for snow
removal. The situation has been ongoing for at least 10 years and the neighbors have approached
the City on numerous occasions to address the situation without any success. The property owner
has been fined a few times but they have been minimal. As a result, the operation has continued
much to the dismay of the neighbors. Mr. Moench stated that the property owner is costing 15 to
18 nearby homeowners a substantial amount in the value of their primary asset because of the
ongoing activity. He suggested that more specifics be provided as far as approval being granted
by the City. He also asked for more information on how the City would determine the violation.

Mailei Bucher gave her address as 4072 South Splendor Way and stated that she has been dealing
with the neighbor who rents short-term and long-term and commented that she began doing it long
before the block was incorporated into the City. Currently, she is renting to about 10 people. Ms.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 03/03/2020
                                                  4
Bucher primary concern was that she is in the middle of the neighborhood rather than on a busy
road. The neighbors have submitted pictures to the City and have kept logs for years. The property
owner was taken to court over the short-term rental situation and found guilty. The activity was
supposed to cease within 24 hours and she was fined $600 and threatened with jail time if she did
not comply. The property owner did not comply and is behind on her payments to the court. The
activity continues and has been for years. The entire home has been transformed into a boarding
house. Ms. Bucher lives next door and has 12 and 20-year-old daughters and recently discovered
that a sex offender is being housed in the home. She expressed her frustration with the situation.

Mr. Teerlink explained that classifying the violation as a misdemeanor gives the courts extra
leverage against the property owner and exacts any income the property owner has received. The
intent is to exert more pressure over those the court has decided have been operating in violation.
It was noted that the City can assess daily fees. Mr. Allred stated that the situation has been
difficult for the City as well. With this particular property owner, the City has been unable to gain
access to the interior of the home and as a result, has not been able to tie construction and
permitting to the use. The matter has gone to court on a few occasions but the penalties are not
severe. It was estimated that there may be up to 300 short-term rentals operating in the City. In
this case, there are perhaps both short and long-term rentals taking place in addition to parking
issues. Mr. Allred stated that many cities across the valley are struggling with short-term rentals.
This property owner has been very effective at creating a very large income stream that makes it
worth the potential violations and going to court.

In response to a question raised, Mr. Allred stated that the neighbors have done an excellent job of
communicating with the City. Staff regretted not being able to do more. The property owner is
very resourceful and knows how to avoid statements being made or granting access to the home.
The City is currently prosecuting a situation in the Canyon Cove Area, which has been difficult as
well. Mr. Allred reported that some cities have decided to regulate and allow short-term rentals
rather than provide enforcement only.

Commissioner Lloyd supported imposing a fine that does not have to be proven and must be
substantial enough to justify the violation. A daily amount of $200 or $250 was recommended.

Susan Pohlman gave her address as 3338 Splendor Circle and stated that they have lived next to
an illegal short-term rental for some time and the effects that this one home has had on the
subdivision has been horrendous. Residents cannot walk with children or on the sidewalk because
there are cars all over the sidewalk. The previous fines have been the cost of doing business for
the property owner as she is making much more in rental income. The neighbors know there have
been massive changes inside, that there are nightly renters, she advertises on Airbnb and other
sites, and that she has long-term renters. Ms. Pohlman asked what can be done to get the City
involved to see what is going on inside the home.

Mr. Allred stated that the City’s Building Official and Police Chief have approached the property
owner and asked to enter with the express purpose of seeing how the home was altered and was
denied. Concerning a second home further up the street to the south, the Building Official was
given access and found that nothing was being done there that would require a permit. Other
potential options were identified. It was assumed that there are Building Code violations but they
cannot be verified without entering the home.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 03/03/2020
                                                 5
Mr. Moench stated that the fine should be severe and high enough to serve as a deterrent. He
pointed out that people are allowed to short-term rentals in their homes but there are laws in place.
The City could insist that they request authorization and allow the City to conduct an inspection.
A second home was purchased by the owners of the home being discussed two houses down. The
neighbors immediately took action and had the City stop the construction that was underway.
Immediately the home was sold to someone who did not intend to turn it into a multi-unit complex.
If the City had not intervened, that home could have housed 20 rentals because it was a much
larger home.

Larry Gelwix gave his address 4129 Splendor Way and asked for clarification on whether all short-
term rentals are required to obtain a permit. Chair Ricks confirmed that it is a requirement. The
property in question does not have a permit for short-term rentals and they would not be allowed
to have one under the current zoning. Mr. Allred stated that the City has tried to gather enough
evidence on the short-term rental. He explained that it is difficult to prove. Mr. Gelwix questioned
whether the property owner has denied that she is renting the home. He reported that he has seen
license plates from five different states at the home and the entire front yard is a parking lot. There
is also overflow parking in the street. Mr. Allred, suggested that the public hearing not focus on a
specific violation and instead on the proposed ordinance. Mr. Gelwix expressed his support for a
more stringent ordinance.

Mr. Allred stated that property owners who are in violation can claim that they have a lot of friends
and family who visit on weekends. The City has no way of proving that they are not related. Every
step of the way there seems to have been an answer that cannot be refuted.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Chair Ricks suggested that the recommendation to the City Council include a substantial fine for
violations. Mr. Allred remarked that the City’s Prosecutor is extremely well versed in this
particular case.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
Ordinance Amendment 13.81 Land Use Violations for illegal operation of a short-term rental,
as proposed. It was suggested that the City Council consider a significant daily fine to deter
future illegal short-term rentals. The motion was based on the following:

Findings:
      1.       The proposed amendment supports the long-range purposes of the General Plan
               to preserve primarily residential neighborhoods from decidedly commercial
               operations.

       2.      A Short-Term Rental (“STR”), as a land use, traditionally attracts transient
               activity, not normally associated with residential neighborhoods.

       3.      Enforcement by the City is expected by residents who feel they have been
               negatively affected by STRs operating in violation of the current Code.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 03/03/2020
                                                  6
The motion was seconded by Commissioner Holbrook. Vote on motion: Chris Layton-Aye,
Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Ann Mackin-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, and Chair
Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

3.       “Hideaway Day Spa” – Home Occupation CUP – 1633 East Spring Run Drive (R-1-
         10).
Mr. Teerlink presented the staff report and stated that the above request is for a Conditional Use
Permit to operate a home-based business. The proposed use is a day spa where personal services
will be provided. Conditional Use Permits are guided by the Land Use Code, which allows the
Planning Commission to review conditions under which home-based businesses can be approved.
It is an allowed use but includes specific conditions by which it may be operated and/or conditions
that the Planning Commission may place upon the business.

Chair Ricks opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Commissioner Bradshaw asked the applicant, Chaconne Christiansen about the proposed hours of
operation, which seem irregular. Ms. Christiansen stated that currently, she has a full-time job that
has very random hours. She would operate her business around those hours. Chair Ricks
commented that the hours of operation seemed extensive for a home occupation. Ms. Christiansen
stated that she typically works one evening on clients while she builds up her clientele. She
expected to have 10 clients per week in the beginning but if it becomes a full-time operation, she
expected to limit it to three to four days per week with five or six clients per day. Ms. Christiansen
noted that she will have no employees. She stated that her two cars can be facilitated in the garage.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to approve the request for a home occupation for the Hideaway
Day Spa located at 1633 Spring Run Drive subject to the following:

Findings:
      1.       A Home Occupation with customers is an allowed use for this location subject to
               mitigation conditions;

       2.      The proposed business’s operations are intended to be of low-impact --all
               procedures are proposed to occur within the home;

       3.      Property owner intends to provide off-street parking by use of their driveway; and

       4.      It is not anticipated that traffic will be a problem due to the small-scale nature of
               the use and the stated clientele count anticipated by the Applicant;

       5.      There are no outside employees proposed or allowed with the use (which will
               reduce the need for parking);
       6.      The use provides a desirable service to the community;

       7.      The proposed hours of operation for the business are of concern to Staff and not
               common to most home occupations approved through the City; and
       8.      Any other findings as may be determined by the Commission in its review of the
               application.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 03/03/2020
                                                  7
Conditions of Approval:
       1.     Off-street parking areas shall be maintained as available during business hours
              – no street parking allowed;

       2.      A business license shall be procured by the Applicant for the use and shall be
               maintained in active status while the business is in operation;

       3.      Operational permits and licensure are subject to review and revocation upon
               finding of non-compliance;

       4.      Provided clientele services shall be limited to a maximum of one person at a time;

       5.      Days and hours of operation limited to Sunday 12:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m., Mondays
               and Tuesdays 9:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m., Wednesdays
               9:00 a.m. – 9:00 p.m., Thursdays 9:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m-9:00 p.m.
               unless adjusted otherwise by the Commission;

       6.      Any other conditions as may be imposed by the Commission to promote the
               general health, safety and welfare of the neighborhood surrounding the property;

       7.      There shall be no client parking in the street; and

       8.      Any complaints will require Planning Commission review.

Commissioner Layton seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Troy Holbrook-Aye, Jan
Bradshaw-Aye, Ann Mackin-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Chris Layton-Aye, and Chair Marianne
Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

4.      Residential Site Grading Permit – 4932 South Waimea Way – (R-1-10 Zone).
The applicant, Nick Tanga acknowledged that their request was denied on two separate occasions.
They were prepared to revise their approach and would still like to construct a retaining wall and
backfill it due to the reasons cited previously. They are proposing to build one eight-foot wall four
feet from the rear property line with a rail on top for safety.

Chair Ricks opened the public hearing.

Rick Jensen gave his address as 3941 Naniloa Drive and stated that he lives next to the Tangas on
the west. He referenced another project completed in the area by the Winkles and stated that the
neighbors were deceived about what that project would entail. Mr. Jensen explained that he now
has a 14-foot wall of cement with a fence on top that goes halfway through his backyard. He noted
that this was not his understanding of what was to be built and it is not consistent with Code. He
was disappointed that no one from the City inspected his property or monitored the project. Mr.
Jensen stated that the property value of the Winkle’s property has increased, while his own
property value has decreased.

Mr. Jensen addressed Mr. Tanga’s proposal and stated that he does not fully understand what is
being proposed. He wanted clarification about the proposition that the wall be built four feet back
from the property line. He asked what is set forth in the Code on this specific issue. He was

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 03/03/2020
                                                 8
disappointed that the view from his backyard is now half taken up by a cement wall and if Mr.
Tanga’s request is granted, the other half will be a cement wall as well. He expressed opposition
to Mr. Tanga’s proposal.

Chair Ricks commented that the Commission is not pleased with how the Winkle’s project was
developed and stated that further action will be taken. Mr. Allred explained that City Planner, Rob
Hobbs, who was most familiar with the issue, was unable to be present. Mr. Allred objected to the
Tanga’s proposal at the last meeting because it exceeds the maximum allowable height. It was
supposed to be a total of eight feet combined between fence and wall. Mr. Allred described the
ordinance and his understanding of how it applies. If someone wants to construct a fence that is
taller than six feet, approval from the property owner that abuts that fence is required. If the
properties converge at a “T”, this includes every property owner whose property touches the fence.
Mr. Allred stated that the question, in this case, is whether the neighbors are willing to allow a
wall that is eight feet tall. For that reason, the Tangas are requesting a special exception. The
Tangas would like to have a fence on top of the proposed wall. An eight-foot wall and a safety
retainer make the combined height of the structure 11 feet.

Mr. Allred explained that this is an interpretational issue. The question becomes about whether a
wall can be placed inside a property line. In most cases, fences are placed on the property line.
The structure the Tangas are proposing is a retaining wall and there was some question about
whether it should be considered a fence. Mr. Allred explained that many property owners place a
fence back from the property line to avoid a conflict with the neighbors and can become an issue
for the City. Mr. Allred was not aware of any guidance in terms of how a wall topped by a fall
barrier should be considered in the Code. It was noted that a wall can be a fence on the property
line, but a fence cannot be a retaining wall. If a neighbor whose property line abuts the wall does
not approve, the highest a retaining wall can be is four feet. The Tangas may have a retaining wall
that is four feet in height unless they are given a special exception. Mr. Allred stated that when
there is ambiguity in the Code, the Courts tend to lean toward the applicant.

Commissioner Layton proposed a shorter retaining wall on the property and a gradual slope to
where the ground is level in the Tangas’ yard. He stated that they will have the same amount of
usable yard without the conflict of a high retaining wall. Mr. Allred stated that the current issue
pertains to interpretation, which has evolved into other conflicts and dissatisfied neighbors. The
Code is vague, which is why the Winkle’s wall and fence were approved and is now a problem.
He asked that the Commission eliminate any confusion to prevent future issues.

The wall on the Winkle’s property was discussed. While it was originally approved by the
Planning Commission and neighbors, the actual wall that was built ended up being much taller
than what was approved. It was noted that this is now an enforcement issue. Chair Ricks stated
that enforcement options were still being pursued.

Rita Wright gave her address as 4941 Naniloa Drive and was pleased that enforcement efforts will
continue. She had spoken with city planners from different municipalities about the debated
section of the Code and they all agreed there are various interpretations. She suggested the
Commission have the Code reviewed and clarified quickly. She appreciated members of the
Commission who took the impacted neighbors into account. Ms. Wright submitted written
comments to the City and stressed the importance of clarity.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 03/03/2020
                                                9
Jeff Ridges gave his address as 4919 Naniloa Drive and stated he will be impacted by the proposal.
He and his wife reviewed the Code on fences and walls and it is clear that without a neighbor’s
consent the wall must be 10 feet from the property line. It is also clear that eight feet is the
maximum height. He noted that the drawings submitted by the Tangas show a 14-foot wall. He
expressed a desire to have the wall measured to determine how much it encroaches on neighboring
properties. The homes in the area are over 50 years old and no variance should be allowed. Mr.
Ridges expressed concern that the proposed wall will improve the property value of one property
by decrease the value of another. He asked that the issue be resolved as soon as possible. He
expressed disappointment in the way the Winkle property was handled.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Bradshaw expressed concern about granting approval until the other similar use
comes into compliance. She was not in favor of approving anything that abuts the wall that is out
of compliance. She suggested that the wall come down or they upgrade what will be in compliance
and not go beyond that to match what is existing. She stressed the need for a change.

Commissioner Layton was not in favor of even a four-foot wall if action is to be taken to correct
the existing error. The bigger problem in his mind was that it shows that there is an area of zoning
and interpretation that needs to be addressed. Mr. Teerlink stated that when the Code was
recommended this time last year, it was recommended that the City Council approve a set of very
open laws. He explained that whenever there is a proposal to backfill and retain if it is within a
setback it requires Planning Commission review.

Chair Ricks encouraged staff to set standards based on a number of retaining walls that have been
presented. It was recommended that language be added that retaining walls be considered fences
at property lines or within the setback and be specific.

Commissioner Layton commented that when a false grade is created by backfilling against an
eight-foot retaining wall it could be compliant but is not a good design solution. Mr. Teerlink
explained that to assume that a barrier is needed presumes that the grade will be taken to the top
of the retaining wall.

Mr. Allred pointed out that there is some gray area. He suggested involving the City Attorney and
getting his feedback on the interpretation of the Code.

Nicholas Tanga was disturbed that the three neighbors to the south of his property are opposed to
his request. Possible alternatives were discussed such as two four-foot walls. Chair Ricks stated
that if there is a four-foot wall at the front fence line, the applicant could build a two-foot fence on
top. Mr. Allred stated that that would be considered a six-foot fence and would not require the
approval of the neighbors. Commissioner Layton stated that the applicant could build two
retaining walls and accomplish what he would like to.

Jeff Ridges commented that the reason there is a fence height limit is that without one, it would be
far exceeded. He recommended not granting a variance and simply require Mr. Tanga to adhere
to the Code.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 03/03/2020
                                                  10
Chair Ricks clarified that the Commission is not endorsing any options and asked that staff revisit
the ordinance.

Commissioner Mackin moved to deny the Special Exception to grading standards for property
located at 4932 South Waimea Way because the impact of the request affects the neighbors, and
the scale of the fence that was built on the Winkle property was built in violation of the Code.
The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bradshaw. Vote on motion: Chris Layton-Aye,
Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Ann Mackin-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, and Chair
Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

Chair Ricks asked staff to seek legal guidance and address the Winkle property. She also clarified
that the Tangas may return to the Commission after the interpretation of the Code is clear and the
City Engineer has analyzed the situation. If the Tangas return to the Commission on this matter,
the fee will be waived. Chair Ricks stated this is not a precedent. The Commission can approve
any further walls to support the Tanga request.

5.      Residential Subdivision – “Weyburn Estates” Concept Plan (PUD) – 1306 East Spring
        Lane (RM).
Mr. Allred introduced the staff report and stated that the applicant is requesting subdivision
approval. He gave a slide presentation showing an initial design for 16 lots on the property. The
applicant eventually would like to obtain a Planned Unit Development (PUD) conditional use. The
zoning has been approved and every lot should have a minimum of 2,722.5 feet. The approximate
density is 16 units per acre. Tonight’s purpose is to discuss the multi-family zone, which is the
same as the zoning to the south. The homes will be lower in height than allowed by Code. Mr.
Allred pointed out that the west end of the property is heavily sloped, not unlike the sites in
Tobermory that were approved in 2013. At the meeting, there was a lot of comment about access
and safety. Public Works Director, Tosh Kano is strongly in favor of a second access to the
property. It was suggested that Tobermory be widened at least 40 feet back from Spring Lane and
the entrance widened to make it easier to turn in and out.

The applicant, Jeff Kruckenberg, gave his address as 5411 South Vine Street and stated that the
primary concern was traffic. He was willing to work with others to create safe access. He
reiterated that the private access used by Tobermory is owned by the subject property and has a
recorded right-of-way agreement allowing the residents to access their homes and is non-exclusive.
His subdivision intends to use the same access for the 16 homes that are proposed. Mr.
Kruckenberg did not believe it was reasonable to require a second access if there is discussion
about widening Tobermory. He would be creating two accesses for the subdivision that he does
not need. He asked that he be allowed to work through the issues with staff and his Engineer. Mr.
Allred encouraged this and stated that Mr. Kruckenberg’s Engineer is highly regarded. There was
a discussion of a traffic study on Tobermory and the need to review safety and access more. Mr.
Kruckenberg added that normally a public street in a subdivision would require a width of 25 feet.
Chair Ricks opened the public hearing.

Kristine Goddard gave her address as 5061 South Oban Court and identified as one of the Directors
of the HOA Board. She also provided a letter from the HOA’s attorney and referenced the HOA
concerns on page 2 of the letter. She appreciated what Mr. Allred had done to understand the
neighbor’s concerns and explained that the road is the only way to in and out for the residents.
There are mailboxes next to a locked gated road for emergency access. Ms. Goddard stated that

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 03/03/2020
                                                11
there is an issue with Tobermory Way, which is undersized and inadequate and barely manages to
accommodate two passenger vehicles. She remarked that the maintenance of Tobermory Way is
the responsibility of the Tobermory residents. The HOA feels there would be inequitable and
disproportionate harm to the HOA if there was not some sharing of the maintenance responsibility.
She understands the increased cost concerns but did not consider it a reason for the developer to
not widen the roadway to improve the access.

Jira Kratochvil gave his address as 5059 South Moray Court and commented that the traffic will
be tremendous with the proposed project. He asked that the access issue be addressed.

Julie Abrams gave her address as 5044 South Moray Court and agreed with the previous
comments. She is a pet owner and uses Tobermory Way to walk her pets which is treacherous.
The view is obstructed when cars park on Spring Lane. She asked that the Commission look at
the installation of a sidewalk in the area. She supports a secondary entrance into the community.
Mr. Allred stated that the City can address parking on Spring Lane outside of this project.

Doug Beck gave his address as 1311 East Tobermory Way and thanked Mr. Allred for his follow-
up. He reported that the Tobermory entrance is 16 feet. The entrance into the church parking lot
is 21 ½ feet wide. He believes that currently, a vehicle approaching Spring Lane must enter the
sidewalk to be able to exit. He stated that the developer can widen the access. Mr. Allred clarified
that he has encouraged that the developer stay away from construction on steep slopes if possible.

Diana Tyson gave her address as 1319 East Tobermory Way and thanked everyone for their work.
She agreed with her neighbors’ comments about safety.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Lloyd asked staff to address the issue of road maintenance before the matter is
brought back to the Commission. Traffic standards were next reviewed. It was mentioned that
safety should also be considered.

Commissioner Mackin moved to continue the request for Conceptual Subdivision Review by
Jeff Kruckenberg who resides at 1306 East Spring Lane and continue the public hearing. The
Planning Commission would like staff to have the TRC, including Dr. Perrin, fully review the
conceptual subdivision, have a formal evaluation by the specific engineers, and look at the
deceleration lane to formally evaluate the conceptual plan before it returns. The PC requested
that a re-notice to the neighbors be sent prior to this item returning for Commission
consideration.

Chair Ricks made a friendly amendment to amend the motion to add that the Commission wants
the City and the applicant’s Engineers to evaluate the current situation, regardless of the
Conceptual Plan. Commissioner Mackin accepted the friendly amendment. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Bradshaw. Vote on motion: Chris Layton-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-Aye,
Ann Mackin-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, and Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye.
The motion passed unanimously.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 03/03/2020
                                                12
6.     Commercial Site Plan – “Cotton Bottom Inn” Redevelopment – Concept Plan – 6252
       South Holladay Boulevard (LU). *Commissioner Layton recused himself from this
       item for the purposed of declaring conflict of interest.

Mr. Allred presented the staff report and stated that staff feels good about the proposed site plan.
He reminded the Commission that this is a Conceptual Site Plan review. The Cotton Bottom
Development will keep the old building and add a patio area with a bar and a family restaurant.
The project will maintain the flavor of the old Cotton Bottom, refurbish the old sign, and the theme
will remain along with many menu items. The use is not changing, just the size of the property.
The applicants, Jeff Bernard and Dave Hunt are switching to a full service restaurant liquor license
from a tavern license. The project will be more of a family restaurant and they want to keep the
restaurant as much the same as possible. The bar will be for patrons 21 years and older.

There was a discussion about the layout of the project. The new building will look like an old
factory warehouse with a lot of windows. The applicant is expected to close on the purchase on
April 14 and once plans are approved, they will begin construction. The hope was to open in
October 2020. A meeting took place with the neighbors previously who raised concerns about
traffic and noise. The applicant stated that the Cotton Bottom help minimize any impacts and be
the best neighbors they can. The neighbors indicated that they were pleased that the restaurant
was coming.

Mr. Allred reported that there is only one other Limited Use (LU) zone in the City (Tuscany and
Franck’s) so the Commission will need to develop regulations including hours of operation,
parking, etc. There was discussion about the abutting landscaping and the potential for the
development to be dog friendly.

Chair Ricks opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. Chair Ricks closed the
public hearing.

Mr. Allred stated that he received a significant amount of verbal public comment throughout the
day that included a great deal of support.

Commissioner Mackin moved to approve the Conceptual Site Plan for the Cotton Bottom
Restaurant and Bar at 6252 South Holladay Boulevard for the applicant, David Hunt and
continue the discussion on the conditional use of the property. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Bradshaw. Vote on motion: Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Ann Mackin-Aye, Jan
Bradshaw-Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, and Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion passed
unanimously. Chris Layton recused himself from the vote.

7.    ADJOURN
Commissioner Mackin moved to adjourn. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 10:41 p.m.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 03/03/2020
                                                13
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate and complete record of the City of
Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held Tuesday, March 3, 2020.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary


Minutes Approved:      April 7th 2020




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 03/03/2020
                                               14
