                         MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
                          PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                     Tuesday, May 18, 2021
                                            6:00 p.m.
                                     City Council Chambers
                                      4580 South 2300 East
                                         Holladay, Utah

ATTENDANCE:

Planning Commission Members:                          City Staff:
Jan Bradshaw, Chair                                   LaNiece Davenport, Community/Economic
Martin Banks                                             Development Director
Chris Layton                                          Jonathan Teerlink, Planning Manager
Ann Mackin                                            Stephanie Carlson, City Recorder
Marianne Ricks                                        Robert Hobbs, Senior City Planner

CONVENE ELECTRONIC MEETING – Public Welcome and Chair Opening Statement.
Chair Jan Bradshaw called the Regular Meeting to order at 6:01 p.m. and read the Commission
Statement.

CONTINUED ITEM
1.     Conditional Use Permit – Stallings Accessory Garage – 3938 South 3030 East (R-1-8
       Zone).
Chair Bradshaw reported that the public hearing remained open from the previous meeting.

The applicant, William Stallings, stated that he was not privy to any of the emails or
correspondence from the last meeting. He has lived in the neighborhood for 11 years and
understands the concerns of his neighbors and the reason for tonight’s meeting. He addressed a
few of the concerns and stated that there has been a lot of misinformation. With regard to height,
he is within the allowed graduated height envelope set forth by the City and height is not an issue.
He has spent time trying to determine what will look best. He displayed a rendering of a shop he
built seven or eight years ago that is of similar construction. He was trying to maintain the overall
look and aesthetics of the neighborhood.

Commissioner Ricks commented that a neighbor expressed concern about the proximity of the
building to her property. Mr. Stallings indicated that some trees were removed and replaced by
the neighbor. She will eventually be looking at the trees she planted rather than at the building.
Mr. Stallings stated that the neighbor has no setback. Planning Manager, Jonathan Teerlink, was
unaware of the proximity of the neighbor’s home to the property line and stated that it was part of
the incorporation that took place in 2014.

Chair Bradshaw closed the public hearing.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –05/18/2021

                                                 1
Commissioner Ricks had no objection to what was proposed. While it is close to the property line,
the neighbor has a zero setback. She also considered the proposed 94 feet to be reasonable.

Commissioner Banks had no objections to the proposal.

Commissioner Chris Layton’s biggest concern was that the structure is in compliance with the
height and setback requirements. He was not concerned about the area, particularly if the
impervious area requirements are met. He had no concerns with the request.

Commissioner Mackin stated that it seemed the discourse expressed at the last meeting had been
resolved.

Chair Bradshaw conducted some research and visited the County Assessors website to look at the
footprint of the neighboring home and the proximity to the proposed building. She had no
objection to what was proposed.

Commissioner Ricks moved to approve the Conditional Use Permit for the placement of an
accessory detached garage structure at 3938 South 3030 East subject to the following:

Short-List Findings:
       1.     The desired garage structure will provide covered/enclosed parking not
              apparently present on the Property – thus providing value to the lot, bringing it
              into better with the spirit of the zoning code [sheltered parking provision], and
              improving, at least theoretically, the safety of the site (e.g., being able to access
              vehicles in a structure during winter months);

       2.      The garage is intended to, or will have the expected effect of, replacing two
               detached structures already on the Property in the vicinity of the proposed
               garage’s idealized position;

       3.      The detached garage is proposed to be a one-story structure set away from
               adjoining property lines in accordance with relevant setback listed in H.C.C. §
               Chart 13.14.101 and [to be] roughly harmonious in style with the existing house
               on site;

       4.      The proposed square footage overage, subjectively speaking, is not considered
               excessive and serves to assist the overall floor plan of the garage to be more
               functional for the Applicant/Owner;

       5.      Staff has not received objections (written or verbally expressed) to date respecting
               the CUP request; and

       6.      Any other findings as may be determined by the Commission in its review of the
               application.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –05/18/2021

                                                2
Conditions of Approval:
       1.     The Owner/Applicant shall obtain a building permit for the proposed detached
              garage structure and final occupancy approval before using the same for its
              intended purpose(s);

       2.      The Owner/Applicant shall not establish or use the structure as an accessory
               dwelling unit on the Property;

       3.      City approval of the project garage does not, and shall not, abrogate the
               Applicant’s/Owner’s responsibility to comply with any relevant deed restriction(s)
               and/or covenants, conditions, and restrictions (“CC&Rs”) that may be assigned
               to the Property; and

       4.      Any other findings as may be determined by the Commission its review of the
               application.

Commissioner Chris Layton seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Chris
Layton-Aye, Commissioner Ricks-Aye, Commission Mackin-Aye, Commissioner Banks-Aye,
Chair Bradshaw-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

DISCUSSION
2.     2021 Legislative Review – House and Senate Bills Affecting Local Land Use
       Regulations.
Economic and Community Development Director, LaNiece Davenport, reported that the 2021
General Session was unique although several bills still passed during the Legislative Session.
Those that did not pass were described. The City worked closely with the City Lobbyists and the
Utah League of Cities and Towns (“ULCT”) on several including a digital billboards bill, a Short-
Term Rental (“STR”) expansion bill, and an impact fee regulations bill.

The bills that passed included the following:

   •   HB-82 was sponsored by Representative Raymond Ward from Davis County and was
       identified as the Single-Family Housing Modifications Bill. It impacts the City of Holladay
       as well as all cities and counties throughout the State. It requires all cities and counties to
       permit Internal Accessory Dwelling Units (“IADU”) in primarily residential zones and
       were added to the Land Use Development Management Act (“LUDMA”). The City is now
       considering where it makes the most sense to permit IADUs in the primarily residential
       zones. They can exclude IADUs in up to 25% of residential zones. Staff took the matter
       to the City Council in an effort to get policy direction on whether to exclude some areas
       from allowing IADUs. The intent was to create an overlay zone. Ms. Davenport noted
       that it cannot be tied to lot size, however, there is a provision in the bill that allows lots that
       are less than 6,000 square feet to be excluded.

       Ms. Davenport reported that the definition of an IADU is a unit within the primary dwelling
       of an owner-occupied unit or within the footprint of a primary owner-occupied unit. One

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –05/18/2021

                                                   3
       of the main objectives was recognizing the housing supply issue in the State of Utah. This
       seemed to be one way to address the problem as it creates more housing supply. With
       regard to affordability issues, she explained that in order for IADUs to be affordable, a
       family cannot spend more than 30% of their income on housing. That number varies by
       County.

       Ms. Davenport explained that there are things they cannot regulate as part of the legislation.
       They were specific about not giving cities the ability to regulate internal EDUs. They can,
       however, regulate things such as ensuring that they have the proper egress. They can
       require one additional parking spot as well. What will likely come out of the legislation is
       a new City ordinance. The City has until October 1 to identify the 25% area where IADUs
       would not be allowed. Timing issues were discussed.

       Ms. Davenport explained that a key planning principle is to create more dense centers
       around major transportation corridors and economic nodes or job centers. The intent was
       to first identify where it makes the most sense for the 75% to be located. It was determined
       that the best place is within one-quarter mile of major transportation and commercial nodes.
       Areas outside of that area would be excluded. Another idea was to consider excluding lots
       that are under 6,000 square feet in size recognizing that they comprise less than 1% of the
       residential zone. Possible options were discussed.

   •   HB-98 involves local government building regulations. It passed the General Session and
       was vetoed by the Governor for one provision that related to Federal Emergency
       Management Agency (“FEMA”) flood insurance issues. It is coming back in a special
       session and will impact local governments by maintaining the 14-day plan review timeline.
       It impacts plan reviews, design reviews, and building inspections. The portions outside of
       the flood insurance portion were expected to come back.

   •   HB-409 is important to the Planning Commission and involves the City and County Land
       Use Development revisions. The bill requires four hours of training for Planning
       Commission Members. All new Planning Commission Members have one hour of training
       on powers and duties in advance of the first meeting and three additional hours of training
       on land use that can be completed within a certain time period. Staff set a tentative date
       for the one-hour training as June 22 at 6:00 p.m. Legal counsel will be present for the
       training as well. The three-hour training will be offered in an online platform by the ULCT.

   •   SB-201 is a public notice amendments bill that was vetoed but included in the special
       session. It eliminated certain newspaper noticing requirements. It was anticipated that
       there will be some requirement for newspapers and could be based on city size.

   •   HB-433 is a transportation infrastructure bill. It invested $1.1 billion in State roads
       including transit and active transportation funding. Some cities were given ongoing
       funding and others were awarded one-time money. The City of Holladay is receiving a
       $300,000 appropriation.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –05/18/2021

                                                 4
Ms. Davenport indicated that staff is working through all of the legislation that impacts the City.
She reminded the Commission Members that the ULCT website includes a summary of the bills.

Commissioner Ricks asked about the upcoming tax increase and where they are in the process.
City Recorder, Stephanie Carlson, stated that it was moving forward. A Truth in Taxation Hearing
was upcoming in August.

The next Planning Commission Meeting was scheduled for Tuesday, June 1, 2021.

ADJOURN
Commissioner Mackin moved to adjourn. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at 6:37 p.m.


I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the City
of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held Tuesday, May 18, 2021.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary



Minutes Approved: 06/15/2021




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –05/18/2021

                                                5
