                         MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
                          PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                   Tuesday, August 4, 2020
                                         6:30 p.m.
                           Meeting Conducted via Electronic Means

ATTENDANCE:

Planning Commission Members:                         City Staff:

Marianne Ricks                                       Paul Allred, Community Development Director
Jan Bradshaw                                         Stephanie Carlson, City Recorder
Troy Holbrook                                        Robert Hobbs, Senior City Planner
Chris Layton                                         Jayme Blakesley, City Attorney
Alyssa Lloyd                                         Jared Bunch, City Engineer

WORK SESSION
Chair Marianne Ricks called the meeting to order at approximately 6:10 p.m.

The agenda items were reviewed and discussed. It was suggested that agenda item number three
be addressed first.

Community Development Director, Paul Allred, reported that with regard to agenda item 4(a), the
expectation was that Chapter 2 would be discussed at the August 18 meeting after which a public
hearing would be noticed for the first meeting in September. Agenda item 4(b) regarding the
Accessory Dwelling Unit (“ADU”) Ordinance, contained an update for the Commission but no
draft was available as staff was waiting for direction from the City Council. Once the City Council
provides feedback, staff will begin drafting the ordinance. Timing issues were acknowledged.

Senior City Planner, Robert Hobbs presented agenda item number three and stated that last year
the applicants were granted a special exception for a retaining wall system. The applicants are
now requesting that the permit be extended to July 16, 2021. Procedural issues were discussed.

The IDI Real Estate Office proposal was next addressed. Mr. Hobbs reported that the property
was rezoned with the intent of developing an office building on the site. The request was for a
Concept Site Plan approval on the property. The request appeared to be in compliance with the
zoning standards. Staff recommended approval subject to the conditions set forth in the staff
report.

Commissioner Lloyd commented on the appearance of the parking garages on the site as opposed
to parking spaces. She stated that it has a storage unit appearance. It was noted that the enclosed
parking spaces will block noise from Highland Drive. Mr. Allred reported that storage unit
developments in the City have been recently prohibited by ordinance of the City Council. On-site
enclosed parking spaces/garages may be reserved for people who work on the site and they are
routinely a part of approved developments. They also reduce heating costs due to less open asphalt
area. A potential condition of approval could be added to require the garages be for the parking

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 08/04/2020

                                                1
of cars only and not for personal or commercial storage such as personal water craft or
motorhomes, etc. Chair Ricks pointed out that any such structure(s) would be visible from
Highland Drive.
Mr. Allred commented on the Fairfield Inn item and stated that the recommended approval was
based on an extensive amount review at staff level. Earlier in the day he spoke to one of the
neighbors at city hall who submitted comments relative to traffic and pedestrian safety. Mr. Allred
was pleased overall with the site plan in terms of architecture, landscaping, and parking.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to adjourn the work session. Commissioner Holbrook
seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Chris Layton-Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-
Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, and Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

The Work Session adjourned at approximately 6:28 p.m.

CONVENE ELECTRONIC MEETING – Public Welcome and Chair Opening Statement.
Chair Marianne Ricks called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m. The Commission
statement was read as well as a statement describing the reasoning behind conducting virtual
meetings without an anchor location.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to modify the agenda and address agenda item number three
first. Commissioner Layton seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Chris Layton-Aye, Troy
Holbrook-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion
passed unanimously.

The Commission next addressed agenda item three after which they addressed the agenda items as
printed.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
1.      “IDI Real Estate Office” – Concept Site Plan – 1990 East 5290 South – (NC Zone).
Senior City Planner, Robert Hobbs presented the staff report and stated that a rezone action
effectuated the change to the zoning from “Public” zone to Neighborhood Commercial zone. The
application was submitted by Kasey Kershaw who was requesting that the Commission consider
their Concept Site Plan arrangement. City codes require Concept Site Plans be reviewed by the
Technical Review Committee and then forwarded to the Planning Commission for consideration
during a public hearing. In addition, the City of Holladay requires input from neighboring property
owners and others who own property within 500 feet of the subject property. Staff has
recommended approval based on the conditions and findings set forth in the staff report.

The applicant, Kasey Kershaw commented that the site plan includes eight executive offices on
the second story, which was the reason for the eight garages. They will be for the use of certain
employees or those leasing space on site. The intent was for them to be attractive rather than serve
as storage units. Mr. Kershaw was approached by one neighbor who attended the neighborhood
meeting and expressed pleasure that she would be buffered from the noise and view from the
street. The applicant agreed to construct a six-foot solid wall on the rear property line. The
neighbor proposed that the garages be pushed to the lot line rather than leaving a five-foot space
there, which could be problematic. Mr. Kershaw reported that he is a Holladay resident and will
be occupying some of the space. He wants the project to be attractive and have a good image.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 08/04/2020

                                                 2
Mr. Kershaw stated that the garages will not serve as storage units but he did not object to a tenant
storing a boat in one of the garages. Commission Bradshaw considered that to be an issue since it
would then be used as a storage unit. Commissioner Holbrook agreed. Commissioner Bradshaw
stated that there need to be stipulations in place that cars may be parked there but they are not to
be used as personal or household storage facilities. If the garages are placed at the rear of the site,
they would look better than a cinderblock wall and be constructed of brick or wood façade or
siding. To the south, the wall would be installed and landscaped.

Chair Ricks opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
closed.

City Engineer, Jared Bunch verified that Mr. Kershaw understood the requirements of the
Highland Drive street improvements. Mr. Kershaw reported that the seven-foot section of property
in front has been dedicated to the City. Mr. Hobbs explained that when property is developed
adjacent to a right-of-way, the developer is tasked with putting in the improvements. In response
to a question raised, Mr. Kershaw stated that before he purchased the property, the Greek Orthodox
Church had already dedicated the seven feet of property to the City of Holladay. His understanding
was that when the street is widened, the power line will be buried.

Mr. Hobbs indicated that there is no specific requirement in the Code regarding the space between
the garages and the fencing. Staff deferred to the five-foot landscape barrier. If they impose that
standard they would move the accessory building based on the Planning Commission’s stated
authority regarding moving features on the property to avoid going through a variance process.
Another option was to keep the five-foot standard.

Commissioner Layton commented that it is redundant to have a rear wall behind the garage. The
only potential issue would be with the neighbor who suggested the idea. He recommended that as
part of the Preliminary Site Plan Design, the developer proposed it at the property line, which
makes more sense. Mr. Hobbs stated that many jurisdictions allow that type of scenario.

Commissioner Lloyd did not think it was necessary to increase the space between the tree trunks
particularly if a variety of trees are planted to allow for reasonable growth. Mr. Hobbs explained
that that specific condition is in reaction to the basic landscape plan that was provided. The intent
was to ensure that the tree canopies do not grow into each other. Additional infill landscaping
could be added but having trees too close together, if they use the tree location depictions, could
be an issue and result in damage to the trees over time.

Commissioner Lloyd felt that 30 feet of spacing was extensive. She remarked that very few trees,
given our high desert climate, survive to grow to a full crown of 30 feet. Commissioner Bradshaw
agreed. She recommended they first study the landscaping plan to determine the types of trees
that are proposed and the spacing along Highland Drive. Possible verbiage changes were
discussed.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to approve the Concept Site Plan for the IDI Real Estate Office
located at 1990 East 5290 South, Kasey Kershaw, Applicant. Approval was subject to the
following:

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 08/04/2020

                                                  3
Findings:
      1.       The site has been rezoned to Neighborhood Commercial, especially to facilitate
               an office use as proposed by the Applicant of/for the project made the subject of
               this report;

       2.      The concept site improvement/layout plan and associated landscape plan
               elements thereon substantially complies with relevant zoning standards that
               appertain to the same or, will comply contingent upon actions being taken by the
               developer (see conditions below) as conditioned by the Commission;

       3.      The queuing and circulation plan provide customary ingress/egress with flow
               through the Property [again – shifting of the site’s approach preferred];

       4.      The proposed use will not add an undue burden to public infrastructure nor
               introduce nuisance or hazardous conditions to the Property, its surrounds, or the
               public;

       5.      Utility and emergency services are available to the Property; and

       6.      The conceptual site plan provides buffering to/for the residential property(ies)
               east of the Property and the Publicly zoned land to its south.

Conditions:
       1.      Depict a solid six-foot (6’) decorative wall on the plan between the Property and
               a/the abutting parcel of land to the east of the Property addressed as 1994 East
               5290 South. The wall shall not be any closer than twenty-feet (20’) to the
               Property’s northern line/right-of-way line of/for 5290 South;

       2.      Street trees depicted as lining both Highland Drive and 5290 South shall be
               shown as fully on private Property (not in the City’s right-of-way) and spacing of
               trees along Highland Drive as shown on the concept plan shall be increased to
               reasonable levels (e.g., 30 feet between trunks);

       3.      The width of the garage bays’ vehicle overhead doors shall be called out on the
               preliminary plan;

       4.      Architectural elevation drawings shall be provided for both the office and the
               accessory garage building [note: the accessory garage building may not have a
               blank wall façade facing the residential property to the east of the Property that
               is longer than 75 feet;

       5.      A grading/drainage plan shall be submitted to the City in conjunction with any
               application for Preliminary Site Plan Approval applied for through the City;

       6.      The position/alignment of future curb, gutter and sidewalk along Highland Drive
               shall be depicted on any application plan pages associated with any Preliminary

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 08/04/2020

                                                4
               Site Plan approval applied for through the City. Relatedly, re-define the scope of
               the landscape strip proposed along Highland Drive to be only five feet (5’) in
               width/depth post improvements emplacement;

       7.      Dedicate, if not already so executed to the City, land confined within the triangle-
               shaped area at the southwest corner of the Property. The right triangle is roughly
               10’ long by 4’ wide at the base;

       8.      Depict the short sidewalk section in front of the proposed office as extending to
               intersect, perpendicularly, the sidewalk (or any future realigned sidewalk) along
               Highland Drive. Cause that said extension is built to an allowable Americans
               with Disabilities Act (ADA) slope for the traversing of wheelchairs thereon;

       9.      Depict the landscape scheme intended to occupy the five-foot (5’) landscape
               buffers that line the east and south sides of the Property;

       10.     Shift the location (centerline) of the proposed Property approach fifteen-feet
               (15’) to the north along Highland [note: this may necessitate losing one parking
               space and narrowing the end-cap landscape planter depicted adjacent to the
               current northern side of the approach;

       11.     The garages shall not be used as storage facilities and only for vehicle parking
               for tenants while working;

       12.     The five-foot landscape buffer shall be removed between the garages and the
               fence line and the garages shall be allowed to be placed at the property line; and

       13.     At the property line, the wall and any landscaping needed shall be planted next
               to the building

Engineering Conditions:
      1.     Construct a 30-inch wide barrier curb 26.5 feet from road centerline to lip of
             gutter (abutting edge of pavement);

       2.      Widen asphalt pavement structure with 7-inch hot-mix asphalt over 6-inch
               untreated base course over 12-inch granular borrow;

       3.      Construct a four-foot-wide park strip; and

       4.      Construct a five-foot-wide concrete sidewalk.

Commissioner Lloyd made a friendly amendment to modify condition number one to specify
that condition number 12 supersedes anything in item number one that is not congruent.

Commissioner Holbrook noted that there is no need for a solid six-foot decorative wall abutting
the back of the garages to the east of the property. The backside of the garages will serve as the
decorative wall. On both ends and the north end of the property it still needs to be addressed.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 08/04/2020

                                                5
Commissioner Bradshaw was in favor of condition number two remaining unchanged since it
will be addressed at the preliminary approval stage.

Commissioner Layton pointed out that the garages built on the property line will have to be
consistent with all building codes.

Commissioner Layton seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Chris Layton-
Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, and Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion passed
unanimously.

ACTION ITEMS
2.     “Fairfield Hotel”– Preliminary Site Plan– 6417 South Highland Drive – (ORD Zone).
Community Development Director, Paul Allred presented the staff report and stated that it has
been a very complicated project. The property has been rezoned and follows the General Plan.
The applicant’s narrative was provided, which details the complicated history of the project. Staff
reviewed the site plan and was generally satisfied. It was noted that the conceptual plan was
approved in November of 2019. Staff recommended preliminary approval with a few caveats.

The proposed Lighting Plan was discussed. Mr. Allred reported that staff has asked numerous
questions of the lighting designer to ensure that the impact of the project will be minimal on the
neighbors to the east. Specifically, the developer was asked to lower the 30 foot tall light poles on
the east side of the site closest to the homes on the east (Only 20 feet from the property line.) The
applicants agreed to lower them to 23 feet in height.

Mr. Allred reported that the wall on the east side of the site is proposed as per Code at six feet.
The highest point of the roofline is 53 feet while the remainder is 49 feet.

Lighting details were discussed. Mr. Allred stated that most of the lights will be at approximately
3,000 kelvin with a few brighter lights. The building will be mostly downlit and on timers. He
commented that he considered the landscaping plan to be outstanding overall.

Mr. Allred reported that he spoke with a neighbor earlier in the day at the counter who had safety
concerns. The neighbor was particularly concerned about the access road from Highland Drive at
the proposed location. From staff perspective, there was not a consensus from the property owners
on the private lane to move the road to the north even though it was unanimously expressed at the
public hearing in 2019 that the drive should be moved to the north to align with the existing traffic
signal. Ultimately, the site plan application submitted complies with the Utah Department of
Transportation (“UDOT”) permit for the access at the existing location. The neighbor was
particularly concerned about the width of the access onto Highland Drive. He wanted it to be
sufficiently wide so that cars have ample room to turn in while traveling at a reasonable speed and
not impact pedestrians. Adding several hundred cars per day to a portion of the private lane will
make it a less safe place to walk.

Mr. Allred reported that the Code specifies that a walkway should be provided between adjacent
uses and the property. He questioned whether the developer should provide a separate walkway


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 08/04/2020

                                                 6
elsewhere. Commissioner Layton stated that there is an ideal place for one along the buffer zone
between the residences and the parking on the east and north.

Mr. Allred explained that the Big Cottonwood Tanner Ditch runs along the northwest corner of
the property and there needs to be a 15-foot wide (per the city engineer) easement to protect and
access it as it is a City-owned facility. The City Engineer also had concerns about the initial
drainage plan, which was not well-designed. That concern has since been resolved with the
addition of a large detention basin on the north side of the property.

Commissioner Bradshaw was concerned about the proposed parking stalls along the road to
Highland Drive. She expressed her strong opposition to this project from the beginning. Mr.
Allred did not consider the situation to be problematic considering the level of traffic coming from
the neighborhood would be minimal. Six to 10 car trips per day were anticipated from only a
handful of properties. Commissioner Bradshaw did not want to wait for motorists to back out and
considered the plan to be flawed. Mr. Allred did not know how the site could be reengineered to
prevent anyone from backing into a private roadway. He explained that backing is allowed onto
Highland Drive where motorists drive very fast. He stated that people have to use caution whether
it is a public or private road. He felt it would also serve as a form of traffic calming for both
parties.

The developer’s agent, Steve Lovell commented that they are moving forward with Plan B which
locates the entrance to the hotel property south of the existing traffic signal and utilizes the present
private lane location for the homes to the east of the hotel. They still have great interest in Plan A
and will continue to work toward that. Chair Ricks recognized the time and expense of developing
both plans. Commissioner Bradshaw was interested in hearing the perspective of the dissenting
resident to understand why an agreement cannot be reached. Mr. Lovell’s understanding was that
the resident is concerned that the agreement is not tied to the project and that signing it would open
the door for the developer to not move forward with the hotel project. That reasoning is flawed
since the development deadline would not allow for anything else to be done on the property. The
neighbor wants the agreement to be escrowed and for Mr. Lovell’s client to move forward with a
$20+ million project before allowing her easement to be released and recorded, which poses
insurmountable hurdles.

Chris Layton asked Mr. Lovell if he and his engineer would consider how a walkway could be
integrated into the area where the current detention basin is located that extends from the lane
around the parking area. Mr. Allred commented that the walkway would need to be an all-weather
surface that will accommodate the grades and ramps to connect. It was noted that it would be
beneficial for the walkway to be placed within the landscape buffer on the perimeter of the site
adjacent to the homes.

Commissioner Bradshaw inquired about the parking stalls that face the road. Mr. Lovell was not
involved in the specific design discussions and stated that it may simply be a function of the site
and the layout.

Mr. Allred explained that there are fewer rooms in the hotel now than approved in the concept
plan. They do, however, still have the requisite number required by Code. His recollection was
that it mirrors the concept plan.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 08/04/2020

                                                   7
Commissioner Layton stated that the site plan is difficult and tight and every parking stall in a
hotel is a premium. He found it much less dangerous than parking and backing out in a grocery
store parking lot. In this case, there will be far fewer cars. Chair Ricks stated that more cars are
anticipated in a commercial area but this is in a neighborhood. She agreed with Commissioner
Bradshaw that it is not a good idea and that moving them would be preferable.

Commissioner Holbrook recognized that this has been a hyper-sensitive situation from the outset.
He agreed that the way the parking is laid out feels like a parking lot. He recognized what the
developer has done to this point and was pleased that they are meeting the height requirements.
He was confused about Plan A and Plan B and wondered if all of the agreements were executed at
the time of purchase. He wondered why there was just one holdout now. All considered Plan A
to be the best option. Mr. Lovell explained that the agreement entered into one year ago was
conditioned upon it being executed by all the residents to the east of the site on the private lane..
When the one resident did not sign, it never became effective. Ways to resolve the conflict were
discussed.

Mr. Lovell stated that he would not want anyone to use their development timelines as leverage to
delay or prevent the project from moving forward. They need to protect the viability of a project,
which is satisfied by moving forward with Plan B. For that reason, the decision was made in April
to run both plans simultaneously. Mr. Lovell explained that the neighbor wanted her easement
escrowed until the hotel is built and open for business. That was something the developers could
not agree to. They have tried in the meantime to provide the resident with reasonable assurances.
Mr. Lovell explained that they are requesting that the Commission consider the application for
Plan B to ensure that their investment and the project is not put in jeopardy.

Commissioner Bradshaw questioned how COVID-19 and the impact on the economy are
impacting the project. Mr. Lovell acknowledged that the hospitality industry has taken a major hit
but is bouncing back. The proposed project is in a great location and the timeline is such that by
the time it is completed, the economy will likely have recovered. The construction period was
expected to be 12 to 18 months with an anticipated 2022 opening.

Site circulation issues were discussed. Mr. Lovell stated that there is no left turn into the hotel or
onto the lane currently. More timing would have been required on the intersection lights to provide
an extra left turn. Chair Ricks did not see how the developer could plan for the left turn out with
UDOT indicating that they can place a median there at any time. Mr. Lovell stated that that is
standard language in all of UDOT’s access permits.

Mr. Allred reported that the previous property owner, Liz Petersen, indicated that much of the
problem is with the stop bar. Motorists ignore it and cars stack, which traditionally prevents
vehicles from getting in and out from the private lane onto Highland. The solution is for Plan A
to be approved; however, there is not unanimity from the neighbors to do that. He pointed out that
only eight out of 111 parking stalls are along the lane. Most of the stalls will be used sparingly for
the majority of the day. Commissioner Bradshaw and Chair Ricks thought that eight stalls was
too many. Chair Ricks considered the eight stalls to be premium parking spaces near the entrance
for those checking in and will be heavily used as opposed to those that are farther away. Mr. Allred
contended that safety is enhanced by having the road be narrower and encumbered. He explained

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 08/04/2020

                                                  8
that all of the neighbors agreed that Plan A at the Concept Plan approval stage nine months ago
was preferable to Plan B. There has been a great deal of discussion since then and the current site
plan meets the Code even though it is not the more desirable of the two concepts.

Chair Ricks recalled that a condition of approval was for the City leaders to work with the
developer to come up with a solution that would allow for the project to be built in accordance
with Plan A. Mr. Allred indicated that not all of the neighbors want Plan A now and that a
“condition” to work toward Plan A cannot be enforced to prevent Plan B. He explained that the
proposed site plan complies with the zoning ordinance. The Planning Commission cannot
condition future approval of the site plan at concept on the City “working with people”. Mr. Allred
explained that although Plan A is better, they cannot force the developer to pursue it because it is
based on rights the City and the applicant do not control. He stressed that it is a permitted use site
plan, not a conditional use.

Chair Ricks read from the Code, which states that the zone is intended to ensure the compatibility
of new development with the surrounding land uses. In this case, it is a road and adjacent
residential development. Mr. Allred explained that it is a UDOT controlled road. Because the
City does not control that right-of-way, they cannot force it to be in a better location. The City
cannot deny the developer the right to use the access onto Highland which UDOT has approved,
which is what the neighbors want now to prevent the hotel use. When the zoning was approved,
it necessitated that the City use the ORD zone to minimize the impact on the neighborhood. He
described how the ORD zone is being followed by the developers in this way.

Troy Holbrook was confused because the Commission made a recommendation for the zone
change to the City Council with the understanding that there was a Plan A and a Plan B. By
recommending approval of the zone to the City Council, the issue that was conflicting with Plan
A would hopefully be resolved. He felt like what happened was that the zone was addressed but
the main issue was not and it is now again before the Commission. The developer wants Plan A
but the City should help them move forward with Plan B to have additional leverage with Plan A.
He was frustrated since he could not make sense of what is being requested.

Mr. Allred clarified that the Commission has a site plan before them that complies with the City
ordinance. The fact that everyone wanted Plan A in November was laudable; however, the City
Council did not subject the rezone to Plan A. The intent was to get to Plan A but there has always
been a problem with the neighborhood’s use rights and easement on the private road. Since there
has been no agreement between the neighbors and the developer to move their access to the north,
the applicant is stuck in the middle. He believed that the Planning Commission was feeling stuck
because they want Plan A as does the staff and the developer. His opinion, based on what he has
heard, was that the support that the neighbors once expressed for Plan A is not as solid as may
have been represented tonight. Therefore, the developer still has the right to consider Plan B. He
suggested the Commission move forward with approval of the preliminary site plan with
conditions.

Chris Layton saw no reason why the preliminary site plan was not compliant and should not be
approved. Mr. Hobbs pointed out that the Planning Commission is given certain liberties by Code
to effectuate certain changes to site plans. In studying the Code, he saw nothing related to the
parking issue that could be addressed lawfully by the Commission.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 08/04/2020

                                                  9
City Attorney, Jayme Blakesley pointed out that UDOT approved the access before the City began
considering the two options with the developer. He agreed that it would be potentially unlawful
for the Planning Commission to deny approval of the plan based on lack of access or insufficient
access where UDOT has already granted approval.

Alyssa Lloyd was not confused by what is proposed and would have voted it for it regardless.
While it is not the best plan, she was aware that they are voting on Plan B because the applicant is
being held hostage by one individual. While unfortunate, what is proposed is a good use of the
property. She suggested that the Commission focus on what is before them, which she considered
to be a completely acceptable plan. Commissioner Lloyd was confident that Plan B is feasible and
will be successful.

Jan Bradshaw was confused and uncomfortable making a decision tonight. She suggested that the
matter be continued in order to better understand what the residents want. She did not want to be
forced to make a decision without having all of the facts.

Commissioner Holbrook commented that since it is unlikely that they will get to Plan A, he wanted
to focus on Plan B. He did not, however, like the idea of approving Plan B for leverage to get to
Plan A. With regard to access to and from the site, all agreed that there is a better option.
Mr. Lovell stated that they have every intention of moving forward with Plan B but while they
prefer Plan A, they have no control over it. Procedural issues were discussed.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to continue the preliminary site plan approval for the Holladay
Hotel, LLC to allow the Planning Commission to receive additional information from UDOT to
better understand the approval and have the developer understand that he is abiding by the ORD
zone with the sidewalk and safety and present one plan.

Chair Ricks commented that tabling the matter will allow time to gather more information and
study the proposal. The Commission Members should do their homework individually and have
Mr. Lovell specify what each resident feels. The neighbors were invited to prepare a statement to
help the Commission make a decision. Commissioner Layton contended that the neighbors’
opinions do not matter at this stage. The matter is before them and they have already had a public
hearing.

Mr. Blakesley warned that it was his opinion that the Commission is on shaky legal ground to
make this type of decision and state that it is based on the opinion of nearby residents or whether
there is lawful access to the site under Plan B. He stated that Plan B is the only option currently
before the Planning Commission. His understanding was that the Commission is obliged to review
the proposal before them and accept or deny it based on compliance with the zoning ordinance.
He did not think it was permissible to consider things that are beyond the scope of the zoning
ordinance.

Commissioner Bradshaw stated that the current request does not comply with the ordinance as
there is no sidewalk. Mr. Allred stated that the Commission routinely approves projects based on
resolving issues that may not meet Code. They can include a condition that a sidewalk be installed.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 08/04/2020

                                                10
The offset is not a Code problem as it can be offset in the wrong direction. It is not dangerous and
can be resolved.

Commissioner Bradshaw felt that the Commission was being forced to make a decision on
something that a decision should not be made on. Mr. Allred stated that UDOT has approved the
permit and granted approval. Mr. Blakesley did not consider it unlawful for the Commission to
discuss with UDOT but cautioned them to be careful about the scope of the conversation and
ensure that it does not interfere with something that is wholly within UDOT’s purview.

Commissioner Bradshaw was seeking a better understanding. She felt that the plan was lacking
access to Highland Drive from the private lane. She also was concerned about the lack of a
sidewalk. She wanted to understand what is being requested.

Mr. Allred explained that the UDOT approval cannot be used as a basis for denial. The City
Attorney also cautioned the Commission against continuing the matter based on that.
Mr. Blakesley reiterated his opinion that it would be unlawful for the Commission to make a
decision based on whether they agree or disagree with the UDOT permit. Access to and from
Highland Drive would not be a consideration the Commission can use. Commissioner Bradshaw
did not disagree but wanted to better understand the proposal before making a decision.

Mr. Allred stated that an outstanding plan has been submitted with every issue having been
addressed. He was not sure the applicant is required to construct a sidewalk from the neighborhood
to Highland Drive, however, the applicant has agreed to do it. Commissioner Lloyd also
questioned whether information presented outside of a public hearing can be presented. Chair
Ricks thought that delaying approval for further study was a reasonable request. Procedural issues
were discussed.

Mr. Blakesley was concerned that the motion to continue was based on an unlawful consideration
that is beyond the scope of the decision before the Planning Commission. If the motion to continue
is based on an unresolved issue that is properly within the scope of the decision being considered
by the Planning Commission, it would not be a problem. He stated that it would be appropriate to
ask the applicant about the impact of the continuance on their application before considering the
motion.

Mr. Lovell stated that they do not have time to pursue Plan A should the one resident give consent.
Their intent is to move forward with Plan B in order to protect their interests. Commissioner
Bradshaw was frustrated that the developer has been wishy-washy, which makes her uncertain
how to vote. Commissioner Layton disagreed and felt the developer has been very clear that Plan
B is being proposed. Mr. Lovell confirmed that they are moving forward with Plan B. Tabling
the matter would impact their deadlines, which have already been significantly delayed. He noted
that there are City and Marriott requirements to be met and they are currently behind schedule.
Over the last nine months, they have done everything in their power to move forward.

Commissioner Bradshaw withdrew her motion.

The Commission took a short break.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 08/04/2020

                                                11
Commissioner Layton moved to approve the preliminary site plan for the Holladay Hotel, LLC
Agent on property located at 6433 South Highland Drive subject to the following:

Findings for Approval:
      •       The use complies with the General Plan and the ORD zone.
      •       The hotel complies with Development Agreement requirements as per City
              Council for setback and building height and for the ORD zone.
      •       The TRC finds very good overall compliance with requirements for Preliminary
              Site Plan.
      •       UDOT has previously approved ingress/egress at existing ingress/egress location
              instead of relocating it to align with 6400 South as previously planned due to
              opposition to its relocation by property owners on the private lane.
      •       The Site Plan proposes:
              o       30% landscaping with an abundance of new trees that will eventually
                      provide a lush vegetative ambience for both the hotel and the nearby
                      residents. No building, parking stall or lighting fixture will be located
                      right against the property line next to neighbors. (See attached site plan).
              o       A building with maximum height of building at 53’ for a small portion of
                      the building and the rest at no more than 49 feet. The split of maximum
                      height to the remainder of the roof line is 40% at 53’ and 60% at 49’.
              o       An estimated number of rooms at 106 with corresponding parking stalls
                      to comply with Code.
              o       Minimal setbacks from Highland Drive and maximum distance of the
                      building to abutting residential property to the east. (126 feet to nearest
                      residential property line) The building has been placed on the site to
                      minimize its visual and other impacts on the residential properties to the
                      east and north.
              o       Keeping the ingress/egress for the site at the present location and
                      incorporating the hotel site plan around it.
              o       The applicants have obtained a permit from UDOT to retain and improve
                      the present location of the vehicular access.
              o       The lighting plan complies with requirements to operate in a way that
                      minimizes impact on abutting residential property by shutting off lights
                      and dimming lights per code. (See overall light plan).
              o       The previous plan to move the access to the north to align with 6400 South
                      could be implemented if unanimous support from the easement holders is
                      eventually obtained and UDOT approves the change in location. (An
                      amended site plan would need to be evaluated by the Commission).
              o       The building materials are high quality. (Please see attached building
                      elevations/materials).
              o       More complex items such as grading, utilities and drainage, landscaping
                      and lighting have been amply addressed by the TRC and with a few
                      clarifications and corrections are acceptable.
              o       Staff will raise a few issues at the meeting for Commission discussion and
                      for the applicant to respond to as listed below.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 08/04/2020

                                               12
Conditions of Approval:
       1.     A walkway shall be provided from the neighborhood through the landscaped area
              on the northeast corner of the site to Highland Drive in cooperation with staff.

       2.      The height of the wall on the east side that abuts the neighboring properties can
               be up to eight feet in height at the neighbors’ discretion.

       3.      The lights on the east side of the site next to the homes should be no greater than
               23 feet.

       4.      The City Engineer has requested that the developer dedicate a 15-foot wide
               easement for the City’s drainage facility on their site.

Items for Consideration:
       1.     Speed bumps.
       2.     Parking stalls that back into the main road.
       3.     Continue to work with neighbors toward an agreement regarding the easement.

Commissioner Bradshaw made a friendly amendment to ask the developer to look at the eight
parking stalls to see if there is a possibility of moving them out of the roadway.

Commissioner Holbrook made a friendly amendment to address the access road and the width
of the opening for the street at Highland Drive.

Mr. Allred explained that currently there is a 23½ wide right-of-way but there was some
uncertainty as to whether the pavement is that wide and if it is wide enough based on the speed of
the road to give motorists ample turning space in and out and ensure adequate safety. Mr. Lovell
stated that the plans were designed by Benchmark Engineering and involve the same plans that
were approved by UDOT.

Mr. Allred suggested that speed humps be installed in front of the eight parking stalls in either
direction to help slow traffic. Mr. Lovell questioned his legal authority to place a speed bump in
the easement.

Mr. Allred recommended that the light poles be lowered and that the 15-foot wide drainage
easement that runs diagonally across the northwest corner of the site be dedicated to the Big
Cottonwood Tanner Ditch.

Commissioner Layton commented that the discussion had gone beyond what was included in his
motion.

Mr. Allred reported that it was also necessary to ensure compliance with the City Engineer’s
requirements for storm drainage as well as the drainage easement across the City’s canal. The
intent was also to lower the light poles to 23 feet on the east side. Mr. Allred recommended that
they go to 23 feet for the light fixtures immediately abutting the two neighbors directly to the east
of the hotel.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 08/04/2020

                                                 13
Wall height issues were discussed. Mr. Allred stated that the Code allows the City to require the
wall to be eight feet in height but the disposition of the neighbors was unknown. Commissioner
Layton wanted to ensure that there is continuity in terms of height rather than increase the height
of the wall in one location. Mr. Allred clarified that he was suggesting that only the perimeter
walls that are against the neighbors to the east be eight feet in height.

Commissioner Layton accepted the friendly amendments. Commissioner Lloyd seconded the
motion. Vote on motion: Chris Layton-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Troy
Holbrook-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Nay. The motion passed 4-to-1.

3.      Schreyer Residential Site Plan – Extension Request – 2806 East Kentucky (R-1-10
        Zone).
Mr. Hobbs presented the staff report and stated that the Schreyers obtained a Special Exception
Permit on July 16, 2019, that was valid for one year. The intent was to authorize the construction
of a retaining wall system in the rear of their property. The applicants requested an extension to
the permit making it valid through 2021. Staff had no objections and recommended approval.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to approve the Schreyer Residential Site Plan Extension at
2806 East Kentucky in the R-1-10 zone for one year with the expiration to be July 16, 2021.
Commissioner Layton seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Chris Layton-Aye, Troy
Holbrook-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-Aye and Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye. The
motion passed unanimously.

DISCUSSION ITEMS
        a)    Presentation of Updated Text Amendments to Chapter 2: Land Use, City of
              Holladay General Plan.
Mr. Allred reported that tonight is likely the last opportunity Jim Carter will have to participate as
a member of the Commission. He could, however, continue to work with staff on an ad hoc basis
on the language he proposed. Mr. Allred needed more time before reporting back to the
Commission. Input from the Commission between now and August 18 was welcomed. It was
suggested that a public hearing be conducted at the first meeting in September. Chair Ricks
suggested the matter be discussed in detail at the next meeting prior to the public hearing.
Mr. Allred explained that the City has committed to address moderate-income housing by
December 1 of each year. Updating Chapter 2 was one way to do that.

         b)     Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance (“ADU”) for Upcoming.
Mr. Allred reported that a draft of the ordinance was not yet available for review. The Commission
had been waiting for feedback from the Council before moving forward. In the near future, the
Council would have a substantive discussion about the future of the ADU ordinance. Previously,
they felt that only one-half acre and larger lots should be eligible for accessory dwellings. There
had been additional discussion based on an application received from a resident who wanted to
amend the zoning ordinance. The resident recommended that the City allow any single-family
zone of R-1-8 and larger be allowed to have an accessory dwelling if they have at least twice the
minimum area of the zone.

        c)     Planning Commission Calendar for November 10 – Moving Meeting Date to
               the 24th.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 08/04/2020

                                                 14
Due to Thanksgiving and Election Day, the determination was made to hold back to back Planning
Commission meetings in November. Meetings were to be held on November 10 and 17.

ADJOURN
Commissioner Bradshaw moved to adjourn. The motion seconded by Commissioner Lloyd. The
motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 10:25 p.m.


I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the City
of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held Tuesday, August 4, 2020.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: 10/20/2020




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 08/04/2020

                                               15
