                          MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
                           PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                      Tuesday, May 4, 2021
                                            6:00 p.m.
                                     City Council Chambers
                                      4580 South 2300 East
                                         Holladay, Utah

ATTENDANCE:

Planning Commission Members:                          City Staff:
Chris Layton, Vice-Chair                              LaNiece Davenport, Community/Economic
Martin Banks                                             Development Director
Howard Layton                                         Jonathan Teerlink, Planning Manager
Alyssa Lloyd                                          Stephanie Carlson, City Recorder
Marianne Ricks                                        Robert Hobbs, Senior City Planner
                                                      Brad Christopherson, City Attorney
WORK SESSION
In the absence of Chair Jan Bradshaw, Vice-Chair Chris Layton called the Work Session to order
at 5:33 p.m.

The agenda items were reviewed and discussed.

Senior City Planner, Robert Hobbs, presented agenda item number 1 regarding the Conditional
Use Permit request for a telecommunications facility at 3053 East Casto Lane. He reported that in
the year 2000, the City of Holladay approved a Conditional Use Permit request for a 60-foot cell
tower that would allow for additional antenna arrays to be located thereon. The tower is allowed
in two ways. The determination was whether 100 feet, as requested in the current application, is
appropriate in the proposed location. Mr. Hobbs stated that the previous approval runs with the
land and there were no conditions or language in the Code showing otherwise.

A question was raised regarding the 53-foot setback as opposed to the 100-foot setback referenced.
The proposed conditions were reviewed. Planning Manager, Jonathan Teerlink, reported that he
added the first condition, which was a requirement of the original Conditional Use Permit. The
site plan proposes a setback of 16 feet for the new tower, which was determined to be unacceptable
to staff. He suggested that it be maintained at least to the setback required with the original
Conditional Use Permit.

Height issues were discussed. Concern was expressed that it will stand out because of the height.
Mr. Teerlink stated that there is another tower nearby that is a simulated pine tree that he recalled
is 100 feet tall. The pine tree at Stratton Drive is also 100 feet tall. Height issues were discussed.
It was noted that it should not be substantially out of character for the area.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –05/04/2021

                                                  1
Vice-Chair Layton stated that the second agenda item involves a public hearing for a Conditional
Use Permit for an accessory garage. He recalled that there was an issue with the timing of notices
and questions about it being noticed for the right property. Mr. Hobbs stated that there was an
issue with the notice that went out in terms of the location of the property shown on the map. The
address, however, was correct. Word had gotten out and the neighbors were aware of which
property the request applies to. He suggested that the public hearing be conducted and continued
to the next meeting.

Agenda item number three was a public hearing for a Conditional Use Permit for a home
occupation at 3957 South Alberly Way. Mr. Hobbs stated that the staff report contains information
on the hours of operation and the anticipated number of clients. The proposed work hours were
discussed. It was noted that adequate parking is available.

Agenda item number four involved a public hearing for a residential subdivision to be called
Lincoln Park. Conceptual and preliminary approval was sought. Mr. Teerlink reported that the
proposed two-lot subdivision is located in the R-2-10 zone and is proposing to split an existing
property to allow for an additional single-family home. R-2 usually denotes a duplex with 10,000
square-foot lots, however, with this application they are proposing a single-family home on a
minimum lot size of 6,250 square feet.

Agenda item number five was described as a public hearing for a residential subdivision for
Bermondsey Place in the R-2-10 zone. The site was presented previously and the applicant was
now returning with a different proposal. Mr. Teerlink reported that the application involves a
subdivision for the existing zone. The applicant was requesting a twin home development in the
R-2-10 zone. The .9-acre site would yield four twin homes or eight units. He explained that the
property ownership within the structure will be common for a twin home. With townhomes, the
ownership of the structure is typically through the HOA and the property owner only owns “paint
to paint”. A twin home provides ownership separated by shared vertical property line.

Commissioner Banks moved to adjourn the work meeting. Commissioner Lloyd seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

CONVENE ELECTRONIC MEETING – Public Welcome and Chair Opening Statement.
In the absence of Chair Jan Bradshaw, Vice-Chair Chris Layton called the Regular Meeting to
order at 6:03 p.m. and read the Commission Statement.

PUBLIC HEARING
1.     Conditional Use Permit – Telecommunication Facility – 3053 East Casto Lane (Public
       Zone).
Senior City Planner, Robert Hobbs, presented the staff report and stated that a Conditional Use
Permit is proposed for a 100-foot cell tower on the subject property. In the year 2000, a
Conditional Use Permit was issued for a 60-foot tower. Due to the change in the nature of the use
and the extended time period between the consideration and the current proposal it was brought
back to the Commission as an amendment. Under the current Code, an 80-foot cell tower is



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –05/04/2021

                                                2
allowable. The proposed tower is comparable in nature to other towers of its kind. It is proposed
to be a stealth tower disguised as a tree.

Commissioner Lloyd considered the stealth nature of the poles to be effective. As they age,
however, most artificial things turn blue. She asked that the applicant adhere to a maintenance or
upkeep plan.

Vice-Chair Chris Layton opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Howard Layton commented that because the applicants have a prior application,
there may be some question as to whether it is enforceable. He suggested that there be at least a
100-foot setback to maintain a distance between nearby residences.

Mr. Hobbs stated that one of the conditions of approval was intended to help the Commission feel
satisfied and broadcast to the applicant that there will be a plan review requirement for the project.
His concern was with the location of the 20’ x 60’ leased space. There was concern that it will be
too close to the home and may need to be adjusted. Mr. Hobbs explained that the Code specifies
that monopoles must be set back from residential structures a distance equal to their height.

Commissioner Ricks asked if the 60-foot tower was ever built. Mr. Teerlink stated that the wood
tower was erected and arrays were placed on it. Cricket Wireless went out of business and removed
its equipment from the tower.

Vice-Chair Chris Layton asked if there is any type of variance process. Mr. Hobbs reiterated that
80 feet is allowed by Code. The variance process would be separate and go through an Appeals
Officer that the City is contracted with. Commissioner Ricks questioned the need for the additional
20 feet. Mr. Hobbs stated that anything in excess of 80 feet would require a variance. Possible
options were discussed. It was noted that the setback requirement is not satisfied either.

Mr. Teerlink explained that the intent with a co-location situation eliminates the need for multiple
towers to be spread throughout the City in some other fashion. In order to maximize the height
location in one specific location and to have two or three other carriers on the same monopole was
considered ideal. For that reason, it was assumed that the additional 20 feet were being requested.

Commissioner Lloyd moved to recommend approval of a Conditional Use Permit for a 100-foot
tall stealth cell tower to be located at 3053 East Casto Lane subject to the following:

Conditions:
       1.      The Owner/Applicant shall obtain a Building Permit for the proposed cell tower
               structure before erecting the same for its intended purpose(s);

       2.      The tower shall be designed so that its appearance [i.e., color, form, etc.] is that
               of a large pine tree [in order to be considered a “stealth facility”];



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –05/04/2021

                                                  3
       3.      City approval of the cell tower shall not abrogate the Applicant’s/Owner’s
               responsibility to comply with any relevant deed restriction(s) and/or covenants,
               conditions, and restrictions (“CC&Rs”) that may be assigned to the Property;

       4.      Maintain the stealth appearance in color and form.

Commissioner Howard Layton seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Ricks-
Nay, Commissioner Banks-Nay, Commissioner Howard Layton-Aye, Commissioner Lloyd-Aye,
Vice-Chair Chris Layton-Aye. The motion passed 3-to-2.

Commissioner Ricks voted against the motion as she preferred to continue the matter to allow for
additional questions to be answered.

2.      Conditional Use Permit – Stallings Accessory Garage – 3938 South 3030 East (R-1-8
        Zone).
Mr. Hobbs presented the staff report and stated that the matter is administrative in nature and
involves a request for a Conditional Use Permit. There was some concern about the notice sent to
the neighboring property owners. It contained a correct address but the location of the property
was misrepresented on the map provided. The neighbors are generally familiar with where the
actual site is and the request. It was suggested that the matter be tabled to allow the neighbors
time to settle the question of which property is being impacted by the proposal.

The applicant, William Stallings, suggested that the public hearing could be opened today but no
decision made. The public hearing could then be continued to the next meeting.

Mr. Hobbs stated that the normal cap provided for property the size of the applicant’s is 850 square
feet. The applicants were requesting a structure that is 94 square feet larger than that. Some of
the comments indicated that the structure exceeds one story. There were other issues that can only
be enforced or policed after the fact. Mr. Hobbs explained that the setbacks are based on property
size. A five-foot setback is proposed to the north and a six-foot setback to the west. Vice-Chair
Chris Layton stated that currently, the only thing that is not in compliance is the square footage
unless there is non-compliance in the impermeable surfaces. The drawing shows that it is in
compliance but the concern that was raised pertains to what counts as impervious surface with
respect to temporary structures.

Mr. Stallings stated that he has spoken with most of his neighbors and all interest parties were
present. He saw no reason to table a decision. With regard to multiple buildings, there are two
structures on the site currently. His intent was to tear one down and build a new one. No additional
new structures were proposed. He was proposing 94 additional square feet and to increase the
setback from four feet to five feet. The request was due to aesthetics. He indicated that the
accessory building will be used for a hobby.

Vice-Chair Chris Layton opened the public hearing.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –05/04/2021

                                                 4
Stephanie St. Thomas gave her address as 3930 South 3030 East and stated that this is the first time
she had seen the wording “accessory garage and guesthouse”. The word “guesthouse” denotes a
home for guests with plumbing and a bathroom that could potentially become an Airbnb. When
he spoke to Mr. Stallings previously, his impression was that it was intended to be a workshop for
truck restoration and that none of his vehicles that are used for personal use would be stored there.
Since Ms. St. Thomas and her husband live the closest to the proposed structure, they were
concerned that more details were not provided. Ms. St. Thomas confirmed that not all of the
neighbors were present. She asked that the matter be tabled to allow the neighbors additional time
to understand the details.

Tom Sharrow gave his address as 3930 South 3030 East and considered Mr. Stallings to be a great
neighbor and a master builder. He was certain that whatever he builds will be of high quality. Mr.
Sharrow was concerned about it becoming a guest residence. He was not opposed to the proposed
increase in the square footage but was concerned that there are currently at least five cars parked
in front of Mr. Stallings’ home and on the street. If the building serves as an accessory dwelling
it will result in even more cars. It was clarified that the proposed structure will not be a guest
house.

There were no further public comments.

Commissioner Howard Layton moved to continue the public hearing on the application for a
detached accessory garage at 3938 South 3030 East for and on behalf of William Stallings to a
future date with the intent of allowing additional time for neighbors to meet, provide input, and
resolve questions. Commissioner Lloyd seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner
Ricks-Aye, Commissioner Banks-Aye, Commissioner Lloyd-Aye, Commissioner Howard
Layton-Aye, Vice-Chair Chris Layton-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

Commissioner Layton asked Mr. Stallings why the proposed portion of his property was chosen
as the location for the accessory structure rather than the end of the driveway. Mr. Stallings stated
that the landscaping for the two existing structures had been completed. He did not need three
structures but if he tears the two structures down, he will have to relandscape. The primary factor
was his wife who chose the proposed location. Commissioner Lloyd was concerned with the
proposed location given that it is a large permanent structure. She commented that once a large,
permanent structure is built that is visually identified as a garage, it is an invitation to pave to the
garage, which will create a very large impermeable surface. Vice-Chair Chris Layton stated that
the driveway cannot be paved because it would exceed the impervious surface maximum.
Mr. Hobbs stated that the driveway could be constructed after the fact and no one would know
about it unless there is a complaint. At that time, the City would determine whether it is an issue.

3.      Conditional Use Permit – “Earth and Ether” Home Occupation – 3957 South Alberly
        Way (R-1-10 Zone).
Mr. Hobbs presented the staff report and stated that the request is for a Conditional Use Permit for
a home occupation for a skincare and energy healing practice. The required standards were
identified. The proposed work hours were described as follows:



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –05/04/2021

                                                   5
       •    Mondays from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. with an allowance for one guest;
       •    Thursdays and Fridays from 10:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. with an allowance for three
            guests; and
       •    Sundays from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. for one guest.

Adequate parking was available in the driveway.

Commissioner Ricks asked about the condition requiring the applicant to obtain a Business
License. Mr. Hobbs stated that because there are people coming to the place of business it is
required.

The applicant, Brittany Lee, reported that she is an esthetician with 10 years’ experience. She
moved to the City of Holladay from Santa Monica, California about six months ago after closing
down a storefront there due to COVID-19. She would now like to change how her business
operates and do it on a smaller scale. She confirmed that she is a State licensed esthetician. With
regard to business hours, she would like to limit her practice to three to four clients per day. The
possibility of increasing hours was discussed.

Commissioner Howard Layton wanted to ensure that adequate parking is provided. He considered
that as important as the business hours. Ms. Lee stated that she has a two-car garage in addition
to her driveway so there will be plenty of space for parking. She noted that she sees one client at
a time.

Vice-Chair Chris Layton opened the public hearing.

Jerry Williams gave his address as 3954 South Alberly Way. With regard to parking, he stated
that in the course of the day he is frequently gone. He called other property owners in the
neighborhood and all agreed that the proposed business is a good thing. They also appreciate that
Ms. Lee is a good neighbor.

There were no further public comments.

Commissioner Ricks moved to close the public hearing. Commissioner Lloyd seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Commission discussed the potential of limiting the applicant to five clients per week.
Commissioner Ricks commented that Ms. Lee has been very conservative in terms of the number
of clients she will see and suggested that the Commission respect the fact that she is running a
business and give her more latitude. Ms. Lee indicated that she was not interested in expanding
the business hours further.

Commissioner Banks moved that the Planning Commission approve the application for a home
occupation for Earth and Ether located at 3957 South Alberly Way based on the following:

Findings:

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –05/04/2021

                                                 6
       1.     A Home Occupation with customers is an allowed use for this location subject to
              mitigation conditions.

       2.     The proposed business’s operations would expectedly be of low-impact nature -
              all procedures are proposed to occur within the applicant’s home.

       3.     The Property owner has space sufficient to provide off-street parking on their
              oversized driveway (see aerial imagery of the Property).

       4.     It is not anticipated that traffic to/from the site will be a problem due to the
              probable clientele count notwithstanding the Property is positioned at the end of
              a public right-of-way cul-de-sac.

       5.     There are no expressly anticipated outside employees associated with the
              contemplated business operation (which will serve to not diminish available
              clientele parking area provision).

       6.     The use provides a service to the community.

Requirements:
      1.     The Property’s existing off-street parking [driveway] area shall be kept open and
             available during business hours for patronage use (to discourage on-street client
             parking).

       2.     A Business License shall be procured by the Applicant for the use and shall be
              maintained in active status while the business is in operation.

       3.     The CUP and Business License are subject to review and revocation upon finding
              of non-compliance

       4.     Provided clientele services shall be limited to a maximum of five (5) persons per
              week.

       5.     Days and hours of operation are and shall be, limited to Mondays from 10:00
              a.m. to 12:00 p.m. leaving room for one guest, Thursday and Friday from 10:00
              a.m. to 5:00 p.m. allowing up to three guests, Sundays from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.
              allowing for one guest, and only one guest at a time for all of those dates.

       6.     All customer parking shall be on-site and cars will be kept off the street.

Commissioner Ricks seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Howard Layton-
Aye, Commissioner Lloyd-Aye, Commissioner Banks-Aye, Commissioner Ricks-Aye, Vice-
Chair Chris Layton-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –05/04/2021

                                               7
4.      Residential Subdivision – “Lincoln Park” Concept and Preliminary – 2251 East
        Lincoln Lane (R-2-10 Zone).
Mr. Teerlink presented the staff report and stated that the application has been reviewed by the
Technical Review Committee (“TRC”) over the last several weeks in an effort to present an
application that is ready for concept and preliminary approval. The property is zoned R-2-10,
which is duplex zoning. The property has enough backyard space to split the lot in two for an
additional single-family home. In the R-2-10 zone, a twin home can be built on 10,000 square feet
but a single-family home is not allowed on a 5,000 square-foot lot. The density ratio is different
in the zone and requires a minimum of 6,250 square feet for a single-family home. The applicant
prepared a concept subdivision plan that shows the arrangement of the properties. The lane will
also be used as a public utility easement to access gas, power, and sewer for the flag lot in the rear.

The TRC reviewed the request for compliance with health, safety, and engineering for on-site
stormwater retention, access for fire, and dedication. The TRC recommended that conceptual and
preliminary approvals be granted. Staff was confident that the Planning Commission can delegate
final approval to the TRC if desired.

In response to a question raised, Mr. Teerlink stated that on the west side, the setbacks are taken
to the property line with a proposed easement across the property. The Fire Department will
require a width of 20 feet there. In terms of Public Works and Engineering, the driveways are
proposed to abut the property line. Commissioner Howard Layton asked if there was anything in
the process that would encourage or mandate an area between the driveway and the neighbor to
the south.

The applicant, Ben Norman from City Point Homes stated that there will be a six-foot-high fence
installed there. The current fence is chain link with privacy slats. Their intent was to update it.
The front home will be remodeled and the detached garage removed with a new one attached to
allow for access. The permanent home in the front was approved previously. He stated that the
proposed fence will be a barrier fence rather than chain link. He did not object to it being a
condition of approval.

Vice-Chair Chris Layton opened the public hearing. There were no public comments.

Commissioner Banks moved to close the public hearing. Commissioner Lloyd seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

Commissioner Lloyd suggested that the fence be enhanced to improve privacy and curb appeal on
the west side. She also felt strongly about requiring a high curb along the driveway to help with
runoff. Mr. Teerlink commented that an enhancement can be added under the preliminary approval
by specifying a type or element to direct drainage toward Lincoln Lane rather than toward the
property lines. That gives the City Engineer something to look for and the applicant options.
Mr. Teerlink explained that conceptual and preliminary approval was being considered tonight and
should be made in two separate motions.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –05/04/2021

                                                  8
Commissioner Ricks moved to approve the Conceptual Subdivision Plan for property located at
2251 East Lincoln Lane subject to the following:

Findings:
      1.      The requirements for conceptual subdivision have been substantially completed.

       2.     Each of the lots shall comply with the minimum width (50 ft) and area (6,250 sq
              ft) for single-family home development in the R-2-10 zone.

       3.     The development complies with the General Plan

Requirement:
      1.     Submit the required area and use table per the Concept Plan checklist.

Commissioner Howard Layton seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Howard
Layton-Aye, Commissioner Lloyd-Aye, Commissioner Banks-Aye, Commissioner Ricks-Aye,
Vice-Chair Chris Layton-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

Commissioner Ricks moved to approve the Preliminary Subdivision Plan with Final Plat
approval to be delegated to the TRC or staff, subject to the following:

Findings:
      1.      The requirements for the preliminary subdivision have been substantially
              completed.

       2.     Stormwater detention areas and public improvements have been reviewed by the
              City Engineer.

       3.     Fire access has been approved by the UFA.

       4.     Vehicular access and utility easements to the rear is established

Requirements:
      1.     Obtain and submit all utility connection letters prior to Final Plat submittal to
             the TRC.

       2.     Post-development Bonding requirements as determined by the City Engineer.

       3.     Replace or enhance the fence on the west side.

       4.     Add an element to divert stormwater to Lincoln Lane.

Commissioner Lloyd seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Howard Layton-
Aye, Commissioner Lloyd-Aye, Commissioner Banks-Aye, Commissioner Ricks-Aye, Vice-
Chair Chris Layton-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –05/04/2021

                                              9
5.      Residential Subdivision – “Bermondsey Place” Concept – 4545 South thru 4551 South
        Highland Drive (R-2-10 Zone).
Mr. Teerlink presented the staff report and stated that the application involves the conceptual
review of the subdivision of a twin home development. The applicant is working with the existing
zone for a development to be serviced off a private driveway. It is proposed to run up the middle
of the property. The TRC reviewed the request at the concept level, which involves the carrying
capacity of all three properties combined in order to yield four twin homes. Each twin home
structure will be on 10,000 square feet with a property line delineating ownership down the middle
of the structure. A common space area is proposed along Highland Drive. The Fire Department
had reviewed the request in terms of access. The construction drawings were also reviewed by the
City Engineer. The applicant also provided Utility Service Letters for power, water, gas, and sewer
for eight units on the subject property.

The applicant, Ashley Atkinson from Sequoia Development, stated that there will be a lot of green
space around the units with private backyards planned for each home. In the front along Highland
Drive, there is a canal ditch that will be rerouted and opened onto Highland Drive with a nice
landscape/streetscape in front of a solid fence. A gated entrance was also proposed.

Vice-Chair Chris Layton opened the public hearing. There were no public comments.

Vice-Chair Chris Layton moved to close the public hearing. Commissioner Banks seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

Vice-Chair Chris Layton commented that this is a very appropriately laid out site with the right
density. He felt that it will fit well into the neighborhood. He looked forward to seeing the project
going forward.

Commissioner Banks recommended that the Planning Commission approve the Bermondsey
Place Subdivision Concept Plan located at 4545 South through 4551 South Highland Drive
subject to the following:

Findings:
      1.       The requirements for conceptual subdivision have been substantially completed.

       2.      The proposed layout of lots complies with density and minimum dimensions;
               width (35 ft) and area (5,000 sq ft) for attached two-family development in the R-
               2-10 zone.

       3.      The development complies with the General Plan.

Requirement:
      1.     Utility service letters to be submitted to the TRC with accompanying Preliminary
             level construction drawings.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –05/04/2021

                                                 10
Commissioner Ricks seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Howard Layton-
Aye, Commissioner Lloyd-Aye, Commissioner Banks-Aye, Commissioner Ricks-Aye, Vice-
Chair Chris Layton-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

ACTION
6.    Approval of Minutes – 4/6/21.
The minutes of April 6, 2021, were reviewed.

Commissioner Banks moved to approve the minutes of the Tuesday, April 6, 2021, Planning
Commission Meeting. Commissioner Ricks seconded the motion. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

ADJOURN
Commissioner Howard Layton moved to adjourn. Commissioner Lloyd seconded the motion.
The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 7:32 p.m.



I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the City
of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held Tuesday, May 4, 2021.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary



Minutes Approved: July 13th 2021




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –05/04/2021

                                               11
