                         MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
                          PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                  Tuesday, March 16, 2021
                                         6:00 p.m.
                           Meeting Conducted via Electronic Means

ATTENDANCE:

Planning Commission Members:                        City Staff:
Jan Bradshaw, Chair                                 Jonathan Teerlink, Planning Manager
Martin Banks                                        Stephanie Carlson, City Recorder
Chris Layton                                        Brad Christopherson, City Attorney
Howard Layton
Alyssa Lloyd
Ann Mackin
Marianne Ricks

WORK SESSION
Chair Jan Bradshaw called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m. The agenda items were reviewed and
discussed.

Planning Manager, Jonathan Teerlink, reported on the dog boarding use and stated that an existing
retail salon is requesting an ancillary use, which is conditional, for overnight boarding. The C-1
and C-2 zones designate the land use as allowable but with conditions. The Planning Commission
is the land use authority and conditions can be applied as needed or required to mitigate potential
negative impacts. One public comment was received by staff via email. In response to a question
raised, Mr. Teerlink stated that the site will be monitored by remote cameras after hours.

Commissioner Banks commented that the boarding is shown in the back of the building and
appears to be a small space. He asked if there are industry standards that dictate what kind of
space per animal is appropriate. Mr. Teerlink was not aware of any space requirements. The
applicant indicated that he can accommodate up to 10 dogs overnight with five to begin with.

Commissioner Lloyd recalled that with the previous Dogtopia request, sound barriers and other
accommodations were required. Mr. Teerlink stated that those types of conditions can be imposed
if deemed warranted by the Commission. Commissioner Lloyd felt that anytime there are multiple
dogs kept overnight there is the potential for a significant amount of noise. Commissioner Ricks
suggested adding verbiage that the use be reviewed upon complaint. She would not want the
applicant to go the expense if there are no complaints. Commissioner Lloyd disagreed and
preferred to be proactive rather than reactive.

The Kershaw Office Building request was next addressed. Mr. Teerlink stated that the applicant
remitted a new set of civil plans that addressed comments raised previously by the Commission.
The action tonight involves a preliminary site plan that requires civil and development site work


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –03/16/2021

                                                1
for an office building in the Neighborhood Commercial Zone, which was granted as a rezone about
one year ago. Any new building in the Neighborhood Commercial Zone will have detailed design
and landscaping and requires review and approval from the Planning Commission. For the civil
site work, staff was comfortable recommending preliminary site plan approval and for final
approval to be deferred to staff.

Mr. Teerlink stated that with regard to design, there are two options for an applicant. One involves
selecting a material that is on the list for the Neighborhood Commercial Zone or materials. The
other option was to choose a style or design that is acceptable to the Planning Commission.
Commissioner Chris Layton commented that an architect should not be impacted simply because
the choice of materials in the City requirements are not up to speed. He stated that there are
excellent metal materials that are sophisticated, modern, stylish, and contemporary. His
understanding was that what was provided is an example of what they want the building to look
like and is not a rendering of the actual building.

Mr. Teerlink explained that the Commission will be approving the design and some elevations
were provided in the packet. The proposed building materials were reviewed and discussed.
Commissioner Chris Layton thought it was fair for the Commission to want to see samples and
renderings of the finished product.

The Royal Holladay Hills Phase 2 preliminary final plat was next presented. Mr. Teerlink
explained that as with any subdivision, there are three steps for approval consisting of concept,
preliminary, and final. Royal Holladay Hills went through a concept subdivision plat last year and
the concept for Blocks A through L were approved. Earlier this year and late last year they
recorded Phase 1, which was a focused plat consisting of Blocks C, B, and D. The applicant had
since decided to plat the entire 56 acres according to the Site Development Master Plan (“SDMP”).

Comments were received from City Engineer, Jared Kemp, that the applicant’s engineer responded
to. The majority of the comments had been addressed. There was a request that when individual
sites come back through the subdivision plat for critical condominium plats, that dedication areas
be clarified. Mr. Teerlink reported that Block D was platted in March of 2020 and the applicant
came back for site plan approval, which requires another level of review showing the location of
the building, what the sidewalks will look like, and the access points. Block D will be seen again
when the building gets more vertical and is placed where ownership will take place.

Commissioner Lloyd moved to adjourn the Work Session. Commissioner Banks seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

CONVENE ELECTRONIC MEETING – Public Welcome and Chair Opening Statement.
Chair Jan Bradshaw called the Regular Meeting to order at 6:01 p.m.

Chair Bradshaw read the Commission Statement in addition to a statement regarding an Executive
Order issued by Governor Herbert suspending the enforcement of provisions of Utah Code 52-4-
202 and 52-4-207. Due to the infectious nature of the COVID-19, the Planning Commission of



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –03/16/2021

                                                 2
the City of Holladay will hold their regularly scheduled meeting by electronic means, with no
physical location.

PUBLIC HEARING
1.      Conditional Use – Dog Boarding/Kennel “All the Raige Dog Salon: - 4000 South 2700
        East (C-1 Zone). Review an Application from Trevin Moore for a Dog Boarding
        Permit at this Existing Business as Per Ordinance §13.08.040. File #21-2-03.
Planning Manager, Jonathan Teerlink presented the staff report and stated that the request is a
conditional use for retail space. The Planning Commission in this case is the approving body for
the application. He explained that dog boarding kennels are allowed uses in the C-1 and C-2 zones.
Conditions can be applied to mitigate negative impacts. An addendum to the staff report was
submitted with one emailed public comment from a nearby neighbor.

The applicant, Trevin Moore, stated that they are expanding the business, which is currently a
grooming salon. They would like to include additional services including daycare, retail, a self-
dog wash, and boarding. He provided plans showing the location of the kenneling area. They will
start with a capacity of five animals with room for 10 over time. He noted that they will be moving
to an adjacent location.

Commissioner Lloyd asked if any enhancements will be made to the new space to mitigate noise.
Mr. Moore stated that they will specifically be addressing that issue with their adjacent neighbor
and putting up soundproofing along the entire shared wall. Commissioner Lloyd expressed
concern about the neighbors behind the use as well. Mr. Moore explained that the kenneling will
take place on the north side of the building, which is on the backside of the plaza. With regard to
the tenants of the apartments to the west, they will do what they can to mitigate barking recognizing
that it could be an issue. Staff will be on site until about 6:00 p.m. A camera system will be
installed to monitor the animals after hours.

Commissioner Chris Layton asked if the dogs will be taken outside. Mr. Moore stated that to
eliminate the need to take the dogs outside, they built an indoor daycare area with a play area
inside. There will be a grassy area that allows moisture to pass through to a flushing system. The
non-porous material will remain on top. The solid waste will be disposed of in a commercial
dumpster on the northeast corner of the parking lot. The dumpster will be sealed and locked at all
times, which should help eliminate any odors. The waste will be enclosed in a bag and then placed
inside the dumpster. In response to a question raised, Mr. Teerlink stated that if smell becomes a
nuisance as determined by the Code Enforcement Officer, the matter will be remanded back to the
Planning Commission.

Chair Bradshaw opened the public hearing. There were no public comments.

Commissioner Chris Layton was pleased that Mr. Moore’s business is in the neighborhood and
stated that many people use and need his services throughout the year.

Commissioner Ricks was comfortable with what is proposed but clarified that approval is subject
to review upon complaint.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –03/16/2021

                                                 3
Commissioner Lloyd suggested that additional conditions be added to address soundproofing and
the disposal of waste. Efforts should be made to minimize the ramifications of waste on neighbors.
She was pleased that the business is in the City of Holladay and wanted to make sure that it is
successful and that the neighbors are happy.

Commissioner Banks asked how the number of kennels was arrived at. Mr. Moore stated that it
was based on experience. They wanted to be able to provide as much room as possible for their
guests. More small kennels could have been accommodated but it would not have been as
desirable. The kennels are roughly five feet wide and six feet deep. Mr. Moore indicated that
there have been no complaints about odor. They have done soundproofing in their current location
to control barking issues. The same will be done at the new facility. Any complaints about noise
have been from their commercial neighbors.

Commissioner Howard Layton asked who would determine what is adequate soundproofing.
Commissioner Lloyd did not think it was necessary to be specific but stated that it is incumbent
upon the applicant to address it adequately to control noise. Mr. Teerlink stated that the
Commission could ask that a permit be pulled for an inspection of the soundproofing at no cost to
the applicant.

Chair Bradshaw closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Howard Layton moved to recommend approval of the conditional use regarding
All the Raige Dog Salon submitted by Trevin Moore, located at 4000 South 2700 East subject to
the following:

Conditions:
       1.      Submittal of a remodel permit and approved to verify space sanitation and
               monitoring/observation efforts described in the narrative.

       2.      Submittal to the City of any required licenses from outside agencies (health,
               sanitation, etc.) in conjunction with obtaining a Holladay business license.

       3.      No drop off/deliveries before 6:00am or after10:00pm.

       4.      Maximum of 10 overnight boarding

       5.      The use approval is subject to review, revocation, or modification upon
               noncompliance with maintaining a low impact operation as outlined in the
               application narrative, and/or non-compliance with Section 13.08.040.

       6.      Soundproofing shall be adequate to mitigate adjacent noise to adjacent tenants.

       7.      A no-fee courtesy permit shall be required with soundproofing to be verified by
               the Building Department.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –03/16/2021

                                                4
Commissioner Banks seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Chris Layton-Aye,
Commissioner Ricks-Aye, Commissioner Mackin-Aye, Commissioner Lloyd-Aye,
Commissioner Howard Layton-Aye, Commissioner Banks-Aye, Chair Bradshaw-Aye. The
motion passed unanimously.

ACTION ITEMS
2.      “Kershaw Office Building” – Preliminary/Final Site Plan – 5305 South Highland
        Drive (NC Zone).
Mr. Teerlink reported that the above matter is an administrative procedural item with the Planning
Commission being the land use authority for site plans in the Neighborhood Commercial Zone.
Previously, the site was rezoned from Public to Neighborhood Commercial (“NC”) in favor of an
office building that was proposed on the southernmost end of the site. The Planning Commission
issued conditional approval for a concept site plan in April 2020. At that time, several items were
noted by the Planning Commission that were required to be reviewed by staff and readdressed by
the Planning Commission upon submittal of the preliminary site plan. The applicant made those
corrections and submitted civil drawings for an office building in the NC zone. Staff reviewed the
proposed site plan in relation to the concept site plan and civil requirements from the City
Engineer. An addendum was made to the staff report addressing comments received. He
explained that Neighborhood Commercial allows for a retail use near residential and design is one
of the key elements. Traditional materials are expected, however, the list is not exhaustive.

Mr. Teerlink explained that one of the staff report elements addresses construction materials. The
Code specifies that if the Planning Commission finds that the material is in harmony with the
overall design, architecture, and theme of the project, it can be allowed. Another issue involved
the dedication of 5290 South. It was the presumption that 5290 South is a public road. The
applicant approached Salt Lake County who verified that it was never intended to be public. He
explained that an easement that has been perpetually used across the property to access the homes
further to the east can remain in place and no dedication is required. However, dedication of
Highland Drive is required with improvements to be relocated. The applicant has reviewed the
relocation improvements. Highland Drive has full improvements, however, due in part to a
widening project, the applicant will be required to relocate the sidewalk to allow for a turn lane on
Highland Drive. The site plan includes those improvements and should be reviewed and approved
as such. The applicant emailed images to update the Commission on what is proposed. It was
clarified that the preliminary site plan includes the design elements.

The applicant, Kasey Kershaw, was present and gave his address as 4929 South Cottonwood Lane.

Commissioner Chris Layton expressed concern with the images provided of a building that does
not look much like the building design shown on the elevations. He also referenced the metal
panels and stated that there is a wide array of quality, sophistication, and aesthetic levels. He
hoped to have more specifics on the metal panel such as the colors. He stated that there is a lot of
information that is lacking with respect to how the building will look other than the elevations.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –03/16/2021

                                                 5
Mr. Kershaw stated that he had not yet decided on the exact materials but the look, feel, and color
was reflected on the rendering provided. He plans to run his business from the building for years
to come and wants it to be done properly. He intends to use very high-quality materials. Chair
Bradshaw stated that normally the Commission is provided with a design board showing the
materials to be used. She commented that it is difficult for the Commission to approve a design if
they do not know what materials are to be used.

Mr. Kershaw was informed at the time of preliminary approval that it was suggested but not
required that they get feedback on the design. He was open to receiving feedback but it did not
seem to be mandatory. Mr. Teerlink stated that notes were made of the Technical Review
Committee’s (“TRC”) first review of the project where the suggestion was made that the Design
Review Board (“DRB”) review the request. It is not required but is recommended. In the Code,
however, the design of a building can be approved by the Planning Commission based on a set of
materials and a strong architectural theme. He noted that the Planning Commission is the sole
approving body for design. He stressed that the DRB has no purview over the NC zone.

Chair Bradshaw stated that strong feelings were expressed during the Work Session that the
Commission would like to see detail on the building materials. Renderings of potential building
materials were described. Mr. Kershaw stated that his intent was to replicate the look at feel of
the building at the Gallivan Center. Commissioner Chris Layton stated that the challenge is that
there are very inexpensive systems that are poorly contrived that could also be considered a metal
panel system. He asked that the Commission be provided with more specific materials.

Mr. Kershaw stated that his intent is not to have a building that looks like another. He wanted to
do a unique version with two stories. He stated that what makes a difference is the landscaping.
He noted that he intends to invest in the landscaping and make it attractive.

Commissioner Chris Layton applauded Mr. Kershaw for his efforts to make this a viable project
but stated that if the Commission is supposed to approve the design of the building they need to
see specifics. Mr. Kershaw did not have specifics on the exact materials but gave an idea of what
the landscaping will look like. The intent of the main level was proposed to be concrete with a tie-
in to the planter boxes. The second level will be a similar dark color to the building in Sugarhouse
and the Gallivan Center. The renderings addressed at the Work Session were displayed.

Commissioner Ricks described various options. One was to approve the preliminary site plan and
ask that a sample board be made available. The applicant would then come back to the Planning
Commission to present the actual samples and materials. Another option was to continue the
matter to allow the applicant time to prepare the materials board at which time they will grant
preliminary approval with final approval deferred to staff. She was comfortable with either option
as long as they are clear that they wish to see the buildings and more complete materials. Chair
Bradshaw suggested that preliminary approval be granted tonight with a materials board to be
provided at the time of final approval.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –03/16/2021

                                                 6
Commissioner Mackin moved to approve the preliminary site plan for the IDI Real Estate Law
Office at 5305 Highland Drive in the Neighborhood Commercial (“NC”) Zone subject to the
following:

Conditions:
       1.      5290 South has been verified as a private road and there will be no dedication
               required. The dedication of Highland Drive will require the relocation of a
               sidewalk.

       2.      Final site plan approval will come back to the Planning Commission with the
               design board materials and renderings.

Commissioner Lloyd seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Chris Layton-Aye,
Commissioner Ricks-Aye, Commissioner Mackin-Aye, Commissioner Lloyd-Aye,
Commissioner Howard Layton-Aye, Commissioner Banks-Aye, Chair Bradshaw-Aye. The
motion passed unanimously.

Mr. Kershaw asked if there were any objections to him clearing some of the trees on the site. Chair
Bradshaw stated that that typically comes with the Building Permit. Mr. Teerlink suggested that
he apply for a Grading Permit subject to preliminary site plan approval. He stated that the removal
of trees is subject to the Landscaping Plan approved by the Planning Commission tonight.

3.      “Royal Holladay Hills, Phase 2” – Preliminary/Final Plat – 4835 South Highland
        Drive – (R-M/U Zone, SDMP). Review of the Second and Final Subdivision Plat
        Phase of Site Development to Include the Remaining Lots E thru L as Per Ordinance
        §13.08.030.
Mr. Teerlink reported that the Planning Commission is the land use authority for the above
administrative procedural approval. Conceptual approval was granted for Lots A through L for
Royal Holladay Hills Subdivision Plat in accordance with the 2007 SDMP. Last year, the applicant
came before the Planning Commission for review and approval of the Phase 1 Subdivision, which
included Blocks, B, C, and D. The intent was to come back periodically to the Planning
Commission with subsequent phases to approve the remaining blocks for the 57-acre site. The
applicant was now requesting full approval of Lots A through L. Staff reviewed the civil site
development for the road construction and utility work to service the area. The Planning
Commission was provided with a Dropbox link to the civil drawings. The City Engineer did not
object to the Planning Commission granting the preliminary site plan and plat tonight and
delegating final subdivision plat to staff with one condition. It was noted the dedication of
curvatures on the extreme corners of the site. The City Engineer would prefer that rather than have
such a sharp dedication, that the radius camfer be included in subsequent subdivision plats. Staff
recommended approval with final plat delegated to staff.

The applicant was represented by Kathy Olson, Woodbury Corporation’s Director of
Development. She gave her address as 2733 East Parleys Way, Suite 300. Kris Longson gave his
address as 4954 Fairview Drive in Holladay. Mr. Longson stated that the materials provided lay
out the blocks in accordance with the SDMP and the overall plat. What was presented lays out the


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –03/16/2021

                                                7
rest of the site in accordance with the lots that were planned in the SDMP for the overall plat. As
they develop each block, they can be further subdivided.

Commissioner Ricks recalled that previously Block A was a parking lot and there was concern
about it being on such a prominent corner. Mr. Longson stated that no design was done for any of
the other blocks. The only thing they have designed to date with buildings is Block D. Block A
is in the same open zone, which has specific allowed uses. Whatever is proposed will come back
to the Planning Commission for specific site plan approvals. The area that surrounds Block A was
required in an agreement between the property owner and Macy’s to keep the area open so that
Macy’s could be seen from the street. That situation no longer exists and the space no longer has
to be a parking lot.

Commissioner Ricks moved to approve the Preliminary Plat for Royal Holladay Hills Phase 2
at 4835 South Highland Drive subject to the following:

Findings:
      1.       Finalized block layout and road network comply in size and dimensions as per
               original conceptual approvals.

       2.      Protection area for Big Cottonwood creek complies with original 2006 stream
               setback exception approval.

       3.      The City TRC finds that the preliminary plat requirements are sufficiently and
               substantially met and comply with the submission requirements for a subdivision
               within the SDMP and the RM-U Zone.

Conditions:
       1.      Make appropriate formatting, grammatical, and addressing changes to the final
               plats as per the TRC review. These changes include items such as inclusion of
               labeling, and corrections to some civil storm drainage and road design comments
               as per subsequent discussions with the developer team;

               a.     All improvements are private.

               b.     Road cross-section width from the face of curb to face of curb at 36 feet.
                      The design approved in the SDMP is 38 feet. City Planning to confirm
                      36-foot wide road is acceptable.

               c.     Road crown is in a travel lane, not centered between opposing traffic
                      lanes.

               d.     Sheet C100: Add phase line between 1 and 2 and label.

               e.     Sheet C322: Minimum roadway slope allowed is 0.50%.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –03/16/2021

                                                8
               f.      Sheet U325: Storm drain cover looks too shallow when compared to curb
                       elevation (not crown).

               g.      Sheet U325: Storm drain ends. Will this be extended? Call out cap for the
                       temporary condition?

               h.      Fire Marshall to review hydrant spacing.

               i.      On sheets that refer to drawings in Phase 1, add ‘’PHASE 1”.

       2.      Final approval shall be delegated to staff.

Commissioner Mackin seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Chris Layton-
Aye, Commissioner Ricks-Aye, Commissioner Mackin-Aye, Commissioner Lloyd-Aye,
Commissioner Howard Layton-Aye, Commissioner Banks-Aye, Chair Bradshaw-Aye. The
motion passed unanimously.

4.     Approval of Minutes – 2/9/2021.
Commissioner Ricks moved to approve the minutes of February 9, 2021, with the corrections as
noted. Commissioner Mackin seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Chris
Layton-Aye, Commissioner Ricks-Aye, Commissioner Mackin-Aye, Commissioner Lloyd-Aye,
Commissioner Howard Layton-Abstained, Commissioner Banks-Aye, Chair Bradshaw-Aye.
The motion passed unanimously with one abstention.

DISCUSSION
5.      Meeting Procedures – Potential Meeting Adjustments in Anticipation of a Return to
        In-Person Meetings with a City Hall Anchor Point.
Mr. Teerlink indicated that the City Council asked him to query the Planning Commission on a
potential plan to return to in-person meetings. Mayor Dahle proposed that within the next one to
two months that an anchor point be established at City Hall. If that occurs, at least two members
of the Planning Commission would need to attend at the anchor location. The remaining Planning
Commission Members could still participate via Zoom. The room was being equipped with a new
camera system that will record meetings and broadcast them live. The Mayor invited feedback
from the Commission as to when they would feel comfortable returning to in-person meetings.

City Recorder, Stephanie Carlson, stated that the City Council is amenable to resuming in-person
meetings beginning the first meeting in May. It does, however, depend on what happens after
April 10. Chair Bradshaw stated that because of the change on April 10 they may have to hold the
second April meeting in an anchor location rather than wait until May. City Attorney, Brad
Christopherson, reported that the Legislature passed a statute that rescinded the mask mandate. It
was veto-proof and removed that authority from the governor. As of April 10, the mask mandate
across the state will be lifted. The current thinking is that meetings after April 10 will need to have
an anchor location. Most cities are opting to broadcast meetings via Zoom or live stream going
forward to allow for greater participation from the public.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –03/16/2021

                                                  9
Commissioner Lloyd was comfortable attending in-person meetings starting late April. Her
preference was to begin in May. Commissioner Ricks was comfortable meeting on April 20 in
person since she will be fully vaccinated. Commissioner Mackin was to be fully vaccinated in late
March but preferred to wait until May to resume in-person meetings. Commissioner Chris Layton
did not object to meeting in-person immediately as he could wear face coverings and be safely
distanced. Commissioner Banks preferred to wait until May to begin in-person meetings.
Commissioner Howard Layton was prepared to resume in-person meetings immediately. Chair
Bradshaw stated that she will be fully vaccinated by April 20 and was prepared to resume in-person
meetings. In all, four members of the Planning Commission were prepared to meet at the anchor
location in April, if necessary.

The April 6 meeting was to be held via Zoom. On April 20, Commissioners Ricks, Howard
Layton, Chris Layton, and Chair Bradshaw were to meet at the anchor location. Commissioners
Lloyd, Mackin, and Banks were expected to join the in-person meetings in May.

ADJOURN
Commissioner Howard Layton moved to adjourn. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 7:30 p.m.



I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the City
of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held Tuesday, March 16, 2021.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary



Minutes Approved: April 6th 2021




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting –03/16/2021

                                               10
