                         MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
                          PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                  Tuesday, July 21, 2020
                                       6:30 p.m.
                          Meeting Conducted via Electronic Means

ATTENDANCE:

Planning Commission Members:                        City Staff:
Jim Carter, Acting Chair                            Jonathan Teerlink, City Planner
Jan Bradshaw                                        Robert Hobbs, Senior City Planner
Troy Holbrook                                       Stephanie Carlson, City Recorder
Alyssa Lloyd

WORK SESSION
In the absence of Chair Ricks, Jim Carter assumed the Chair called the work meeting to order at
approximately 6:10 p.m. The agenda items were reviewed and discussed.

With regard to the General Plan Amendment, City Planner, Jonathan Teerlink reported that at the
last meeting a desire was expressed to ensure that those within the boundaries are on board. The
applicant has come back with a list providing evidence of this. The Commission also asked that
the neighbors in the area be noticed, which was not done based on the advice of legal counsel. The
applicant, however, was asked to reach out to the neighbors individually. The public hearing was
continued.

Chair Carter did not consider the Kentucky Avenue area to be likely to redevelop in the timeframe
of the General Plan. He stated that he does not typically support General Plan Amendments since
often they are proposed to be a more intense use. Commissioner Bradshaw agreed with the
residents and supported removing the designation in the General Plan. Commissioner Lloyd was
concerned about setting a precedent going forward.

Commissioner Holbrook commented that as the Village Center has developed there have been
efforts to creep into the residential neighborhood. He commented that if they do not identify what
is appropriate, developers do not know the parameters. He suggested that the boundaries be clearly
defined.

Setbacks were discussed specific to the Tolcate Cove Subdivision. The possibility of a no-build
line was discussed that would be similar to a setback but more restrictive. There was also concern
expressed about the three entrances. It was suggested that the developer utilize one driveway.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to adjourn the work meeting. Commissioner Holbrook
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Meeting adjourned at approximately 6:28 p.m.

CONVENE ELECTRONIC MEETING – Public Welcome and Chair Opening Statement.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/21/2020
                                                1
In the absence of Chair Ricks, Jim Carter assumed the Chair and called the meeting to order at
approximately 6:30 p.m. The Commission statement was read as well as a statement describing
the reasoning for conducting virtual meetings without an anchor location.

CONTINUED
1.      General Plan Amendment – Future Land Use Map 2.3, MDR-S to LDR-S.
City Planner, Jonathan Teerlink presented the staff report and stated that the matter was continued
from the last meeting at the direction of the Planning Commission. They were interested in
receiving additional comments from the property owners within the amendment area. The public
hearing remained open. Additional written comments were provided in the Commission packet.

Chair Carter explained that the General Plan Amendment is not a rezoning but would change the
City’s Future Land Use Map to show the area as LDR-S rather than MDR-S.

The applicant, Holly Richards, acknowledged the Planning Commission’s dedication and
commitment to the City. She also thanked the 15 applicants from the 22 properties for their
confidence in allowing her to speak on their behalf. She explained that the application was to
remove the listed properties from the MDR-S District and place them in the LDR-S District. Prior
to 2016, the lots were in the Low-Density Residential District. They should remain there just like
the R-1-10 properties surrounding the subject area. She stated that the neighborhood does not fit
the purpose of the MDR-S District as described in the General Plan. She urged the Commission
to protect the residents from potential higher density.

Chair Carter opened the public hearing.

Steve Doxey reported that he submitted documents over the past several weeks, including one
entitled “Justification for Amendment to the General Plan” that sets forth his reasoning. Another
document was a letter from him and his wife to the Planning Commission in an effort to clarify a
few points. He noted that at staff’s suggestion, Holly Richards, obtained signatures from all of the
applicants. The 16 co-applicants own 16 parcels in the neighborhood and signed the document
clarifying that they are aware of what is happening. The goal of the neighbors is to not have their
neighborhood be a focused location for growth and densities of 16 units per acre. It is a single-
family neighborhood and there are established development patterns. Mr. Doxey pointed out that
virtually every other property in the MDR-S District City-wide is already a multi-family housing
project. Staff indicated that the requirement for moderate-income housing has already been met
and the residents do not feel they should be the target for additional uses for that purpose.

Ron Hilton commented that the effort was motivated by his application last year for a rezone. He
was not in favor of what is proposed and thinks there is a need for medium-density to provide a
transition from the high density in the Village to the low-density in the surrounding area. He was
not in favor of being included on the list of residents who support what is proposed. Mr. Hilton
commented that a more appropriate change would be to place the boundary down the middle of
Kentucky Avenue. He asked that his property be removed from the area to be amended.

Greg Hancock stated that he lives directly behind Ron and Melissa Hilton and knows that the focus
is on the south side of Kentucky. Mr. Hancock lives on the north side of Kentucky and the
neighbors on either side of him would prefer that the properties behind them on the north side of



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/21/2020
                                                 2
Kentucky Avenue not become medium density with three-story condominiums looming over their
backyards. His preference was to also focus on the north side of Kentucky Avenue.

Mr. Doxey stated that the compromise proposed by Mr. Hancock would not do much for the street.
He differed with Mr. Hancock on the character of the properties on both sides of the street and
stated that there are one-half acre properties on the north side of the street with established homes.
He stated that living across the street from a large apartment complex would be the same as living
next to one. Mr. Hilton agreed that it is problematic that the General Plan specifies RM zoning for
the Medium-Density District. He suggested that there be a more gradual transition

Mrs. Richards commented that the boundaries were chosen because they were all zoned R-1-10
and it made sense to include them in the LDR-S. She recognized that Mr. Hilton was not in favor
of the amendment but stated that his property is zoned R-1-10 and fits within the parameters of the
request.

Commissioner Bradshaw asked about the possible removal of some duplexes and tri-plexes on
Kentucky Avenue from the amendment area. Mrs. Richards’ understanding was that they did not
need to be removed. She explained that the duplexes are in the HV Zone and were to be included
in the LDR-S area because they are zoned R-1-10, which kept them within the parameters of what
was proposed.

There were no further public comments.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to close the public hearing on the General Plan Amendment.
Commissioner Holbrook seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Commission.

Chair Carter reported that since the last meeting he had been working with staff on updates to the
General Plan. He explained that a General Plan Map is typically a Future Land Use Map that
distinguishes between areas where changes are invited or anticipated and areas that are not. He
stated that in essence it is an invitation for future change. Chair Carter stated that typically the
most troublesome areas are along the boundaries. He did not consider the subject area to be a
place where the City is looking for or would like to encourage redevelopment. He suggested that
the City take a serious look at the boundaries of the Holladay Village Center recognizing that there
needs to be a certain critical mass for it to succeed. Commissioner Bradshaw agreed and
understood Mr. Hilton’s perspective but state that he is part of the R-1-10 and needs to be included.

Commissioner Holbrook appreciated Mr. Hilton’s comments and clarified that he is not seeking a
multi-family project, however, as a City they need to identify medium and low-density with
something in between. He supported forwarding a favorable recommendation to the City Council
that the neighborhood revert back to low-density in support of a majority of the residents.

Commissioner Lloyd commented that she grew up on Kentucky Avenue and respected the wishes
of the residents.

Chair Carter supported the proposal since it seemed very unlikely that during the life of the General
Plan that this area can appropriately redevelop. He suggested that for the time being it remain
Low-Density Residential.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/21/2020
                                                  3
Commissioner Bradshaw moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council on
the General Plan Amendment-Future Land Use Map 2.3 as proposed by Clark and Holly
Richards who represent a large portion of the area residents. Commissioner Holbrook seconded
the motion. Vote on motion: Troy Holbrook-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Chair
Jim Carter-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
2.      “Butternut Estates” Subdivision – Concept and Preliminary Plan – 4411 South
        Butternut Road – (R-1-8 Zone).
Mr. Teerlink presented the staff report and stated that the applicant has prepared a concept and
preliminary plat in conjunction with the rezone application submitted previously. The City
Council was primarily concerned about was the location of the access to the third lot. In order to
ensure safety, they followed the Planning Commission’s recommendation to require Lot 3 to
access where the previous driveway was located for the existing home. There are two properties
with both homes to be removed. The lots will be greater than the required 8,000 square feet. Off-
site improvements will require the installation of curb, gutter, and sidewalk along Butternut Road.
Staff found the conceptual subdivision to comply with the R-1-8 zone in terms of lot size and
width. For the preliminary level plan and construction review, the Engineering Department looked
at the off-site improvements and made a recommendation for curb, gutter, and sidewalk as well as
catch basins for the new drainage pattern that will be introduced on the corner. Staff recommended
approval of the Conceptual and Preliminary Plan subject to the findings set forth in the staff report.

The applicant, Nick Mingo was present to answer questions.

Commissioner Bradshaw expressed her support and stated that it will enhance the area.

Chair Carter opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. It was noted that
comments were submitted via email in advance of the meeting.

Commissioner Holbrook moved to close the public hearing. Commissioner Bradshaw seconded
the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to approve the Conceptual and Preliminary Subdivision Plan
and Plat for the Butternut Estates Residential Subdivision located at 4411 South Butternut Road
subject to the following:

Findings:
       1.      Are in accordance with the intent, standards, and criteria specified in the
               Holladay City general plan, title 13 of the Holladay zoning, and all applicable
               ordinances;
        2.     Conform to City Council requirement of lot 3 having driveway access from 4470
               South;
        3.     Create no financial hardship to the City; and
        4.     Create no environmental consequence that will adversely impact adjacent
               properties and the health, safety, or welfare of the inhabitants of the City.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/21/2020
                                                  4
Approval of the final plat should be deferred to the Technical Review Committee (“TRC”) for
approval. Commissioner Lloyd seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Troy Holbrook-Aye, Jan
Bradshaw-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Chair Jim Carter-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

3.      “5420 South Cottonwood Lane” Subdivision – PUD – 5420 South Cottonwood Lane
        (R-1-43 Zone).
Mr. Teerlink presented the staff report and stated that the Conceptual Subdivision was approved
for the property in May. Some of the lot lines and building pads were rearranged to preserve some
of the large tree stands and building pads. As a result, the applicant is proposing a Conditional
Use Permit for a Planned Unit Development (“PUD”). He explained that PUDs do not provide
flexibility for density but allow for the accommodation of natural features on the property that
would otherwise be hindered by such things as setbacks.

The applicant, Steve Hopkins, commented that there has been a lot of concern about a community
pool. He made it clear that they are trying to preserve the features that exist on the property without
impacting anyone outside of the property. He reported that only Lot 2 will have a pool and it will
be private. There will also be a gym that will be private. The project is being proposed as a PUD
to split things up as proposed and not to increase the density of the existing zone. He stressed that
they are not proposing a community swimming pool.

Commissioner Bradshaw suggested that the driveway be shared to be more congruent.
Mr. Hopkins stated that there is no functional way to get the driveway to the rear lot which is Lot
1. It was proposed that the home on Lot 3 be placed slightly forward from the typical setback to
preserve the rockworks that are in the pond currently. They intended to utilize what they have to
the extent possible rather than start over. The intent was to also reduce the amount of paving. In
response to a comment made by Commissioner Bradshaw, Mr. Hopkins stated that they hope to
avoid removing the older trees. The Fire Department agreed to allow them to narrow the pavement
to 16 feet from 20 feet in areas where there are large trees both along Cottonwood Lane and along
the driveway for Lot 1..

Commissioner Holbrook asked if it would be possible to enter the driveway from Lot 1 and go to
the right. He also asked for clarification regarding what is existing and what is proposed. There
appeared to be an entrance onto Lots 1, 2, and 3. Mr. Hopkins stated that the existing entrance is
into Lot 3. It was proposed that the entrance into Lot 1 would be new as well as the one into the
brick area for Lot 2, where the existing home is located. Other alternatives could be explored but
they did not make financial sense and require too much paving. For the developer, it works better
to treat them as three separate lots.

Chair Carter opened the public hearing.

David DiFrancesco identified himself as the neighbor to the rear. He was opposed to the proposed
development as it will increase the density, creates a subdivision, and will impact his views. He
recognized Mr. Hopkins’ desire to preserve what he can but Mr. DiFrancesco did not want to see
a neighbor eating breakfast directly over his back fence.

Byron Smith, an 18-year resident, gave his address as 2285 Walker Lane. He is a neighbor to the
south of the subject property and shares a common fence line. Mr. Smith had never met
Mr. Hopkins and did not consider what is proposed to be in character with the surrounding area.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/21/2020
                                                  5
What exists now is a large home on the property. He expressed concern with noise. The applicant
claims that the pool and pool house will remain part of the home on Lot 2, however, the proposal
specifies that one of the reasons for what is proposed is for it to be shared by the other residents of
the PUD. Mr. Smith next commented on fire containment issues and was concerned that they are
at significant risk, particularly with Lot 1 by narrowing the emergency access road. This increases
the risk to the neighboring homes. Mr. Smith stated that they have hundreds of trees on their
property as well. He also believed there was a precedent issue by encouraging other developers to
purchase legacy homes in the area and converting them to PUDs. He expressed his strong
objection and indicated that he also submitted a letter to the Planning Commission.

Chair Carter commented that one of the concerns expressed was that the area has several beautiful
legacy homes on very large pieces of property that are very valuable. When the City was looking
at the zoning in the area, they decided on very large lot zoning to work toward preserving that type
of character in the area. He explained that one-acre zoning allows someone to convert a three-acre
lot into three one-acre parcels.

In response to a question raised, Mr. Teerlink explained that for a traditional subdivision, if they
are not considering flexible setbacks, Lot 3 would most likely be pushed further to the west. He
explained that front yard setbacks have to be averaged based on the streetscape, however, with
one-acre properties the setback is standardized at 40 feet. A 40-foot front yard setback would be
applied to Lots 2 and 3. On a flag lot that is serviced by a private driveway, the setbacks must
mirror the yards that are around it. The intent when deep lot developments were allowed was for
the lot to be developed in mid-block sections or individual backyards. It was noted that the
placement of the homes is key. They will have to further explore what yards would be applied in
this case. Setback issues were discussed. Mr. Teerlink explained that without the PUD the rear
yard setback against Mr. DiFrancesco’s property would be 35 to 40 feet. He stated that a PUD
would allow for conditions to be applied as it is an approved use.

Commissioner Bradshaw asked how far back Mr. DiFrancesco’s home is from the lot line and if a
home could be built there if they went that exact distance in. That did not appear to be the case
and did not seem to be an issue with Lot 3. Commissioner Bradshaw was interested in knowing
the setbacks of the homes to the south and west to determine if they can impose the same setbacks
within a PUD equal to what they have proposed. The desire would be to not place a home closer
to the boundary than they already are. Commissioner Holbrook stated that the result may be to
shrink the footprint of the home. He questioned whether there will be requirements to modify
existing structures to make Lot 3 work?

Commissioner Bradshaw suggested there be a shared driveway with one entrance.
Mr. DiFrancesco agreed with Commissioner Bradshaw and stated his home and others have a
shared access and a shared mailbox. He clarified that his access is off of Walker Lane. There is
a gate on 5340 South but it is not functional. It was intended for use as an emergency access. He
commented that the proposed project is odd and he did not want it to negatively impact the current
residents. He hoped it would be adjusted to work for everyone. He estimated that the distance
from his back patio to the fence is approximately 75 feet. Mr. Teerlink reported that standard rear
yard setback requirements for a lot of at least one acre in size are 41 feet. With a PUD, however,
that a different setback can be allowed or required.

There were no further public comments.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/21/2020
                                                  6
Commissioner Bradshaw moved to close the public hearing. Commissioner Lloyd seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

Chair Carter asked about the status of the approval of the project and reported that conceptual
subdivision approval was granted on June 2, 2020. Mr. Teerlink explained that that approval
carries with it three lots. His recollection was that the lot lines on the concept plan were drawn
around the house.

Chair Carter explained that if the structure of Lot 1 is closer to the west line than it would be in a
conventional subdivision, conditions could be imposed to mitigate the impact of it being closer.
Commissioner Lloyd doubted it could be mitigated since this is a special area. She was vehemently
opposed to relaxing any of the minimum setbacks. If the building envelope has to move, it should
move toward the larger house and not toward the neighbor. Commissioner Bradshaw agreed.
Commissioner Lloyd was unwilling to reduce any of the minimum setbacks on any side of the
property even to preserve large trees. She stated that she positioned her own home to preserve
trees and over the past three years she has lost two. Construction, asphalt, and regrading on the
property will compromise the trees and there is no guarantee that they will not die in the next few
years as a result. She was not willing to gamble on the long-term positioning of a home toward
the neighbors.

Procedural issues were discussed. Mr. Teerlink reported that a motion to deny a Conditional Use
Permit for a PUD must have significant findings since it is presumed under the permit that the
issues for concern can be mitigated by conditions. Commissioner Lloyd favored approval of the
PUD with conditions pertaining to moving structures back from property lines. Given the high
bar of rejecting the project, at a minimum they need to protect the surrounding neighbors.

The building envelope was shown, which would eliminate a turnaround for the Fire Department
and require a long and narrow home. Moving the home back would be less of an imposition on
the neighbors. Commissioner Lloyd commented that once the property is divided into three lots,
each with different setbacks, the neighbors on all sides will be negatively impacted.

Setback and access issues were discussed. Mr. Teerlink described how side yard setbacks are
determined. Concern was expressed with Lot 1. Commissioner Holbrook commented on the
emergency access and stated that changing the setback changes the building envelope, which also
changes the accessibility. He thought that the neighbors would prefer a narrower lane that would
serve only the residents. Possible options were discussed including building a smaller home on
Lot 1. Commissioners Bradshaw and Lloyd commented that the fire turnaround needs to be
worked out by the applicant.

Commissioner Holbrook moved to approve the Conditional Use Permit for the“5420 South
Cottonwood Lane” Subdivision subject to the summary and Technical Review Committee
analysis and the requirement that the rear yard setback of Lot 1 maintain the existing westside
minimum setback of 41 feet. Commissioner Bradshaw seconded the motion. Vote on motion:
Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Chair Jim Carter-Aye. The motion
passed unanimously.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/21/2020
                                                  7
4.       “Terry Acres” Subdivision – Concept and Preliminary Plan – 1758 East Holladay
         Boulevard – (R-1-10 Zone).
Senior City Planner, Robert Hobbs presented the staff report and stated that the current iteration
of the subdivision plat does not include a PUD. He reported that the City of Holladay requires
platting for all land divisions. In the case of a simple split, a plat is required. He explained that a
plat is a check listed item and if it meets the standards of the Code, it would be difficult to deny in
good standing. Staff found the request to substantially comply with the acceptable limits in terms
of relevant zoning and subdivision ordinance standards. Mr. Hobbs stated that the access to the
property, specifically an easement arrangement was of concern. Areas of concern were identified.
He explained that the applicant maintains that they have solved the problem but he had not yet
seen any evidence to support that claim.

Mr. Hobbs commented that the applicant’s neighborhood meeting was ostensibly held in August
2018. Since then, there has been communication between parties but a neighborhood meeting with
a wider scope had not been held. There was some question as to whether another needs to be held.
The proposed findings and conditions of approval outlined in the staff report were referenced.

The applicant, Tony Terry stated that concerning the easement, the neighbor to the east
recommended that they pursue a shared easement. His home sits on the boundary line and sharing
the easement gives him an extra 10 feet of setback. The reason the easement moves back to the
original easement is because there are two large trees he did not want to have to remove. He
reported that the property was built in 1919 by a grandson of Brigham Young who was the architect
on the Salt Lake Temple. Mr. Terry intended to subdivide the property and sell it as two lots.

Chair Carter opened the public hearing.

Mark Thomas, a 20-year resident, identified himself as a neighbor. He thought it made sense to
subdivide the property but had concerns. He stated that a title report has been obtained and recalled
that the developer was required to obtain easement agreements from the various parties.
Mr. Thomas stated that there are times when he cannot get in or out of his property because of
problems with the easement. Parking is also a serious problems at times. He suggested that the
easements be examined carefully. He conducted a title report and found that he has three
easements on his property. Mr. Thomas suggested they determine where the liability lies and who
maintains it. The first step should be to look at the existing easements, which has not been done.
He stated that there is a serious easement problem and development of the property will have
implications. In addition, the developer was asked to work with all of the partners and propose an
easement that works for everyone. He stated that there has been very little communication.
Mr. Thomas concluded that the application is incomplete, not in compliance, and should not be
approved in its current state.

Chair Carter agreed and stated that the applicant will need to demonstrate to the Fire Marshal that
he has legal access. Mr. Thomas’ preference was to wait for more information to be submitted.

Jeff Hollingworth identified himself as the legal counsel for Mark Thomas. He stated that
Mr. Thomas indicated that there are several easements of record. There are rights-of-way and
when he met with Sutherland Title earlier in the day they prepared a rough plot. He and
Mr. Thomas want to be collaborative and believe that the solution in terms of an easement and



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/21/2020
                                                  8
right-of-way document needs to be done. He suggested that a new document be submitted that
includes all of the stakeholders.

There were no further public comments.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to close the public hearing. The motion was seconded by
Commissioner Holbrook seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Commission.

Mr. Terry reported that he approached his civil engineer and asked him to modify the drawings to
eliminate the shared driveway. If the neighbors cannot work with him he plans to eliminate the
easement in order to move forward. Procedural issues and possible options were discussed.

Chair Carter commented that the access issue remains the responsibility of Mr. Terry to resolve.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to approve the conceptual preliminary plan for the Terry Acres
residential subdivision located at 1758 Holladay Boulevard subject to the following:

Findings:
      1.       The proposal meets; land use, density and lot dimension requirements of a single-
               family residential development within a/the R-1-10 Zone;

       2.      Development construction details have been review by the TRC and found
               compliant with minimum site improvement standards;

       3.      Utilities for a newly added residence can be adequately served from existing
               infrastructure in Holladay Blvd.;

       4.      That City Engineering has reviewed the plat and provided requirements to
               correct/revise plat drawings prior to/as part of preliminary plat submittal; and

       5.      The City is aware of, and has communicated to, the Applicant’s engineer the need
               to assure that a/the preexisting easement being made associated with the
               subdivision that lies on to its east on a property owned by Stalbsberb is able to
               accommodate shared access/use by lots in the plat as well as the properties
               already entitled to use the same. Also, Staff recommends that a shared
               maintenance agreement be orchestrated between all parties intending to use the
               shared drive protected and established by the easement.

Conditions:
       1.   The applicant’s engineer shall make any and all corrections/revisions to the
            concept plat [labeled as a preliminary] as demarcated by the TRC via notes on Plat
            drawings dated Dec. 19, 2019, submitted to and on file with the City;

       2.     The applicant’s engineer shall make any and all extant plan corrections (and
              imbed the same in preliminary plat drawings) as required by the City Engineer,
              including:



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/21/2020
                                                9
               a.     The applicant shall remove the connection to the existing storm drain
                      catch basin;

               b.     The applicant’s engineer shall design a/the 100-year flow route in
                      overland form to Holladay Boulevard;

               c.     The       applicant’s        engineer      shall       provide      other
                      corrections/revisions/clarifications as demarcated [4/14/2020 “redlines”]
                      on submitted plans by the City’s engineer;

       3.     The applicant/developer shall [re]convene a neighborhood meetings with property
              owners within 500’ (H.C.C. §13.03.020.B.) by August 30, 2020, to review the
              project’s nature and scope with attendees. Provide to City Staff a copy of the
              resultant meeting agenda, roster, and minutes. Applicant work with Holladay TRC
              Staff members to pursue and record a final plat to return to the PC within one
              year of this approval; and

       4.     Provide a copy of the access easement instrument currently recorded on/against
              Parcel 2204207061 [owner of record: Stalbsberb Properties LLC] to City Staff for
              review prior to, or in conjunction with, submittal of a preliminary plat application.
              (May or may not be needed.)

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to amend the motion to eliminate condition number three.
Commissioner Lloyd seconded the amended motion. Vote on motion: Troy Holbrook-Aye,
Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Chair Jim Carter-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

ACTION ITEMS
5.      “Tolcate Cove” Subdivision – Preliminary Plan/Plat – 5867 South Tolcate Lane (R-1-
        43 Zone).
Mr. Teerlink presented the staff report and stated that the applicant, Kyle Denos was ready for
preliminary approval a few months earlier. The Planning Commission decided to continue the
item to resolve outstanding Code compliance issues. As a result, many of the compliance issues
had been remedied. The current plan was ready for approval with a request to defer the final plat
review to staff. A condition of approval was recommended to obtain Salt Lake County Health
Department septic drain requirements.

The applicant, Kyle Denos thanked the Planning Commission and reported that he has been
working with the Salt Lake County Health Department and the engineer was preparing a proposal
for the leach field.

Commissioner Holbrook moved to approve the conceptual and preliminary subdivision plat for
property located at 5867 Tolcate Lane with final plat approval deferred to the TRC. Approval
was subject to the following:

Findings:
      1.       Are in accordance with the intent, standards, and criteria specified in the
               Holladay City general plan, Title 13 of the Holladay zoning, and all applicable
               ordinances;

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/21/2020
                                                10
       2.      The plans comply with conceptual approvals;

       3.      Create no financial hardship to the City;

       4.      Create no environmental consequence that will adversely impact adjacent
               properties and the health, safety, or welfare of the inhabitants of the City; and

       5.      The additional building lot provides housing opportunities while protecting
               natural features of the property.

Condition:
       1.      Prior to Final plat submittal: full septic and drain field design approval(s) are
               provided the City from the Salt Lake County Health Department.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Bradshaw. Vote on motion: Troy Holbrook-Aye,
Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Chair Jim Carter-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

6.    Approval of Minutes – 6/02/20, 06/16/20.
The minutes of June 2, 2020, were reviewed and modified.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to approve the minutes of Tuesday, June 2, 2020, with the
changes added by Commissioner Holbrook and Community Development Director, Paul Allred.
The motion was seconded by Commissioner Holbrook. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

The minutes of June 16, 2020, were reviewed and modified.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to approve the minutes of Tuesday, June 16, 2020, with the
changes and additions provided by Commissioner Holbrook and Mr. Allred. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Lloyd. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

DISCUSSION
7.     Presentation of Updated Text Amendments to Chapter 2: Land Use, City of Holladay
       General Plan.
Chair Carter reported that last Fall there was a public hearing on Chapter 2. Concerns raised at
the meeting primarily involved changing the thrust of the General Plan. He reviewed the draft
with the proposed changes and made edits. The intent was to clarify that the City values its stable
neighborhoods. He offered to provide the draft document to the Commission Members to review.

8.    ADJOURN
Commissioner Bradshaw moved to adjourn. The motion seconded by Commissioner Holbrook.
The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 8:50 p.m.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/21/2020
                                                11
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the City
of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held Tuesday, July 21, 2020.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary

Minutes Approved: October 6th 2020




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 07/21/2020
                                               12
