                         MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
                          PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                  Tuesday, February 18, 2020
                                          6:30 p.m.
                                  Holladay Municipal Center
                                    4580 South 2300 East

ATTENDANCE:

Planning Commission Members:                         City Staff:
Marianne Ricks, Chair                                Robert Hobbs, City Planner
Chris Layton
Jan Bradshaw
Troy Holbrook

WORK SESSION
The Work Session was called to order 6:30 p.m.

City Planner, Robert Hobbs, reviewed the agenda items. Agenda item 1 involved the proposed
development of professional office space. The applicant was requesting that the Commission
consider whether the building could be placed closer than normally would be allowed to 3900
South reducing the setback from 20 feet to 10 feet. The City Engineer did not have concerns with
the proposed design. The landscaping is customary with trees having been added to the design
and street lights. It was mentioned the applicant can provide conceptual drawings. There was a
discussion regarding the setback of 10 feet off of 3900 South and the entry and exit from the
property. There was some confusion about the plans that were submitted. Commissioner
Holbrook commented on the building layout and his safety concerns being addressed. It was noted
that the approach on the south off 2000 East is set too close to the intersection.

It was noted that the meeting minutes of 6/4/19 and 12/3/19 were not included in the packet. As a
result, the Commission would only consider the minutes of 3/19/19 and 4/30/19.

The Work Meeting adjourned at 6:52 p.m.

CONVENE REGULAR MEETING – Public Welcome and Chair Opening Statement.
Chair Marianne Ricks called the Regular Meeting to order at approximately 7:00 p.m. and read
the Commission statement.

PUBLIC HEARING
1.      Ludlow Dentistry – Conceptual/Preliminary Site Plan – 2006 thru 2020 East 3900
        South.
City Planner, Robert Hobbs presented the staff report and stated that the request is for a site plan
review and approval of Ludlow Dentistry. The City Council recently rezoned the property to
professional office (P-O) to accommodate the current project. The applicant’s proposal would be
10 feet closer to 3900 South than would typically be allowed. The Commission has the authority


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 02/18/2020

                                                 1
to allow it if they so choose. Staff reviewed the application and determined that it is in compliance
with the Code.

Mr. Hobbs reported that the applicant’s curb approach is close to 2000 East and will have to be
moved in accordance with Title 14. Any approval would need to be predicated on accomplishing
compliance with Title 14. The Commission also needs to consider whether the applicant can move
the building to the north to buffer the residential property to the south or alternatively comply with
the Code. The Commission was provided with a copy of both proposals.

Mr. Hobbs stated that comments from the applicant in the staff report include a Justification
Statement, an Introduction, and a photo of the property.

Commissioner Holbrook asked if shifting the building by an additional 10 feet would result in the
proposal being even more out of compliance than it currently is. Mr. Hobbs responded that it
depends on how the applicant realigns the service drive or changes the size. Mr. Hobbs stated that
the parking is based on professional office spaces. There was discussion regarding compliance
with Title 14 and how that would take place.

The applicant, Adam Watts, gave his address as 2221 South 2000 East and informed the
Commission that he would try to maintain the drive out in its current location even if the building
is pushed further north. The request for the egress was to push it two feet to the south, which is
possible because of a five-foot landscape buffer. He noted that it would meet the egress
requirement and still maintain the required landscaping setbacks.

Mr. Watts felt that by moving it 10 feet it would provide a better buffer from the closest residence
and better visibility from 3900 South. The building is currently about 40 feet from the residential
property line. There was a discussion about the zoning history of an adjacent property. Mr. Watts
commented that having the egress on the south side allows for maximized parking under the City
Code. Chair Ricks expressed safety concerns with the current proposed configuration pertaining
to traffic. There was discussion about the sewer and water connections.

Chair Ricks opened the public hearing.

Tatyana Golub, resides to the south of the property at 3921 South 2000 East. She was concerned
because both of her bedrooms face north and are only four feet from the wall. She believes that
the entrance on 3900 South is much safer because people stop at the stop light.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Bradshaw commented on the height of the single-story building. Commissioner
Layton stated that the height is 40 feet. There was discussion about the height of the fencing in a
residential zone and that the proposal for a six-foot fence is in compliance with the Code. It was
mentioned that the proposal is somewhat unique given the configuration of the property.

Chair Ricks commented that 10 feet on the sides is appropriate. She was inclined to approve the
project conceptually and ask that the applicant to come back with better drawings to help guide


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 02/18/2020

                                                  2
the development of the Black Diamond property in the future. Another comment was made about
safety concerns with the 10-foot setback. Commissioner Layton stressed the importance of
complying with the zoning that is currently in place.

Mr. Watts reported that he plans to install signage advising traffic of non-entry. The Commission
agreed that Plan B is not acceptable as-is. There was discussion about what should be approved
tonight and what should be brought back for additional review. The Commission Members were
comfortable with Plan A.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to approve the conceptual and preliminary site plan for the
Ludlow Site Plan located 2006 and 2020 East 3900 South for Plan A subject to the following:

Findings:
      1.      The site has been rezoned to P-O, especially to facilitate office uses – specifically
              with a dental office being proposed for development on the property;

       2.     The concept site improvement/layout plan A and associated landscape plan
              complies with relevant zoning standards that appertain to the same, or, will
              comply contingent upon actions being taken by the developer (see conditions
              below);

       3.     The queuing and circulation plan provide customary ingress/egress with flow
              through the property;

       4.     The proposed use will not add expectedly an undue burden to public
              infrastructure nor introduce nuisance or hazardous conditions to the property,
              its surrounds, or the public; and,

       5.     Utility and emergency services are available to the property;

       6.     Plan B provides equivalency to Plan A save respecting setback conformance and
              a minor amount of land coverage; and

       7.     The Plans provide buffering to/for the residential property(ies) south and
              southeast of the property.

Conditions:
       1.     Applicant/project shall comply with the PC approved site plan “B” as selected by
              the Commission;
       2.     Applicant shall re-design the approved Plan to move the egress approach on 2000
              East to comply with § 14.12.110.A;
       3.     Approval by the City Engineer of compliance with Title 14 on the egress off of
              2000 East; and
       4.     Defer final approval to staff.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 02/18/2020

                                                3
Commissioner Layton seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Chris Layton-Aye, Troy Holbrook-
Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

ACTION ITEMS
2.     Consideration of Ordinance 13.66, Holladay Crossroads Zone (HCR).
Chair Ricks clarified that the above matter is not a public hearing. She commented on the language
regarding bicycle parking and stated that it was discussed that bicycle parking has not been
previously required in other zones. There was discussion regarding how much bicycle parking
should be provided and the potential to increase the amount at some point in the future.

Spencer Timmons gave his address as 4472 South Albright Drive and commented that bicyclists
want their bicycles to be parked in the front or side of a building in the line of sight. He did not
think that requiring a specific number of bicycle stalls based on the number of parking stalls would
be the proper way to regulate bicycle parking.

Chris Ensign suggested the Commission use language that there “should” be bicycle parking but
not address the number of stalls required. Commissioner Layton agreed and liked the use of “shall
have” language without providing a specific number of required stalls. It was suggested that the
Commission include an additional level of detail. Mr. Hobbs suggested that the applicants propose
the number of required bicycle spaces.

It was suggested that the specific required number of bicycle stalls be removed and instead state
that development “shall include adequate bicycle parking” and, “Bicycle racks shall be
permanently secured to a non-permeable surface. Racks (or spaces containing a bike rack) shall
be located within close proximity to the main entrance of the building(s) that they serve.”

There was discussion that Holladay is not ready to require a specific bicycle to automobile parking
ratio. It was suggested that a specific number of parking stalls be required for certain businesses
but not for others and that bicycle parking alternatives be considered.

The Commission next discussed a chart showing allowed uses. Those shaded in blue were
Alcoholic Beverage Retail Sales establishments. There was discussion regarding the minimum
separation distance from residences. Commissioner Ricks asked about charter schools and assisted
living facilities and suggested they be removed from the allowed use table.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to recommend approval to the City Council of the HCR Zone
edits proposed by staff in Chapter 13.66 with the following concerns to be further reviewed by
the City Council:
        1.    The bicycle parking language and how specific the regulatory language needs to
              be;

       2.      The minimum separation between residences and alcoholic beverage sales
               establishments; and

       3.      The adjustments needed to parking ratios.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 02/18/2020

                                                 4
Commissioner Layton seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Troy
Holbrook-Aye, Chris Layton-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye.    The motion passed
unanimously.

Chair Ricks stated that there would be further public hearings with the City Council on the above
issues.

3.    Approval of Minutes – 3/19/19, 4/30/19, 6/4/19, and 12/3/19.
The minutes were reviewed and modified.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to approve the Holladay City Planning Commission Meeting
minutes of March 19, 2019, with the changes provided by Chair Ricks. Commissioner Holbrook
seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Chris Layton-Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-
Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to approve the minutes of the City of Holladay Planning
Commission of April 30, 2019, as presented. Commissioner Holbrook seconded the motion.
Vote on motion: Chris Layton-Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Chair Marianne
Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

Approval of the minutes of June 4, 2019, and December 3, 2019, was tabled to a future meeting.

ADJOURN
Commissioner Holbrook moved to adjourn. Commissioner Bradshaw seconded the motion.
The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 8:21 p.m.


I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate and complete record of the City of
Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held Tuesday, February 18, 2020.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary


Minutes Approved:     April 7th 2020




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 02/18/2020

                                                5
