                        MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
                         PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                  Tuesday, May 19, 2020
                                        6:30 p.m.
                          Meeting Conducted via Electronic Means

ATTENDANCE:

Planning Commission Members:                        City Staff:
Marianne Ricks, Chair                               Paul Allred, Community Development Director
Jim Carter                                          Jonathan Teerlink, City Planner
Troy Holbrook                                       Stephanie Carlson, City Recorder
Chris Layton
Alyssa Lloyd
Ann Mackin

CONVENE ELECTRONIC MEETING – Public Welcome and Chair Opening Statement.
Chair Marianne Ricks called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m. and read the
Commission statement.

1.     Weyburn Retreat – Planned Unit Development and Preliminary Subdivision Plat –
       1306 East Spring Lane (RM Zone).
Community Development Director, Paul Allred presented the staff report and stated that at the
last meeting, the Commission asked that the following be addressed:

       1.      The two guest stalls on Tobermory Lane be moved into the Weyburn site.

       2.      Add a continuous sidewalk along Tobermory up to Spring Lane.

       3.      Keep Tobermory Lane as proposed at the last meeting, which is four feet wider
               than currently built. The applicant proposed it at a width of 22 feet including the
               curb. There would be 20 feet of flat drivable surface and two feet of drivable curb
               on the west side.

       4.      The applicant was asked to report back on the ability to move the utilities at the
               corner of Tobermory Way and Spring Lane.

Mr. Allred reported that the developer, Jeff Kruckenberg, proposed a new 15-foot turn radius
into the site from Spring Lane because he was unsure of the ability to move the utilities. Staff
recommended approval based on the fact that staff feels the project meets the test of a
conditional use and the developer has adequately addressed the issues. Possible conditions of
approval were discussed.

Jeff Kruckenberg from Alan Kruckenberg Construction thanked staff and the Commission and
indicated that since the last meeting he took into account the Commissioners’ suggestions and
recommendations. The site plan showed significant modifications to address the concerns raised.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/19/2020

                                                1
All of the eight required parking stalls were moved to be located within the Weyburn Retreat
Subdivision.

With regard to the pedestrian access, Mr. Kruckenberg indicated that there is still a sidewalk
from the intersection of Weyburn Lane and Tobermory Way traveling north to Spring Lane. To
provide full pedestrian access for the residents of Tobermory, he proposed a new solution that
ties in access from Oban to Weyburn, which will provide mid-block pedestrian access. He
reported that there is only eight feet between the top back of curb and Lot 16. He recommended
there be landscaping to buffer the corner of that home.

In terms of the road widening, he had not received a response from Rocky Mountain Power or
Comcast. He planned to work with the Tobermory HOA to enter into a Shared Maintenance
Agreement for the portion of Tobermory Way from the intersection of Weyburn to Spring Lane.

Mr. Allred confirmed that the remaining outstanding items had been addressed. Concerning
fencing, Mr. Kruckenberg stated that a six-foot vinyl fence is shown behind every unit to provide
privacy. The patios will be fenced with everything behind them left open. The area behind the
retaining walls will be landscaped. He did not intend to place a fence on top of the two existing
retaining walls.

With respect to the project sign, Mr. Kruckenberg stated that with the widening of Tobermory
Way, the sign near the front of the project will need to be relocated. He also intends to place a
PUD sign near the rear of Lot 1 and the front of Lot 16. Concerning lighting, his intent was to
minimize light trespass. Currently, light shines into the rear of some of the homes.
Mr. Kruckenberg intends to rectify that situation. Each of the garages will have coach lights on a
photocell to provide light throughout the community from dusk to dawn. Mr. Allred suggested
that LED lighting be required that is warm white lighting between 2,500 and 3,500 on the Kelvin
scale. He considered the photocell and downlighting on patios to be critical. Mr. Kruckenberg
reported that any architecture submitted to the City for building permit will be stamped by a
licensed Architect and Structural Engineer.

In response to a question raised, Mr. Kruckenberg stated that three “will serve” letters were
submitted to the City with the final being from Salt Lake City Water. Upon conditional use and
preliminary plat approval, the City will be able to issue a letter recommending that Salt Lake
City Water begin conducting fire flow testing and final approval to service the subdivision.

Jim Carter commented that the proposed design solutions address the substance of the concerns
raised at the last meeting. He was pleased to see all eight parking stalls located within the
development. He liked the option of allowing pedestrian access through Mr. Kruckenberg’s
project to get to the sidewalk. Given the site constraints, he was satisfied with the proposed
solution.

Ann Mackin asked about the sidewalk and if it was continuous. Chris Layton remarked that if
the Commission believes that continuous pedestrian access from Spring Lane to Tobermory is
critical to the approval, the proposed plan is not a great solution. In terms of having a strip of
landscaping to the east of Unit 16, he was not sure the beautification was worth not having a


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/19/2020

                                                2
sidewalk on the side of the road. He did not believe the issue of pedestrian access had been
resolved well but was not certain it was a condition of approval.

Troy Holbrook agreed and commented that the connecting sidewalk is being done through guest
parking in Tobermory and placing it in another area of guest parking appears to work but in
reality, does not. Possible solutions were discussed. With regard to the radius, he deferred to
staff to decide whether a 15 foot radius will resolve the issues with the turn. He did not object to
the utilities remaining where they are as long as the radius is opened up to get traffic off of
Spring Lane.

Alyssa Lloyd stated that given the restrictions of the lots, she considered the proposed solution to
be adequate.

Chair Ricks agreed that the sidewalk needs to be continuous and did not think that the sidewalk
as proposed is safe for pedestrians. Alyssa Lloyd did not feel it makes the situation any more
dangerous than it currently is as no sidewalk exists. Chair Ricks preferred to see the sidewalk on
the westside of Tobermory be continuous and the drivable road at 22 feet with a 25-foot radius.
She suggested the Commission request the 25-foot width, which will be safer and improve traffic
circulation.

Mr. Allred clarified that Public Works Director, Tosh Kano recommended 25 feet but recognized
the placement of the utilities may preclude that. He commented that 15 feet may be adequate
since it is an improvement over what currently exists.

The possibility of burying the utilities was discussed. Mr. Allred stated that the utility
companies do not like to place vaults in the ground since it is difficult for their workers to repair.
Of the two options, placing the utilities underground in a vault would be more expensive and
difficult and less likely to be approved by the utility company. The determination to be made
was whether 15 feet is an improvement over what exists given the additional traffic that will be
generated.

Mr. Allred explained that if the project is approved, the area from 1300 East to Tobermory will
be red curbed to prohibit parking there. By making it a no parking area and posting no parking
signs, safety will be greatly enhanced. In addition, the wider turn radius will prevent motorists
from having to make a full stop to turn into the project. Chair Ricks was inclined to do what was
recommended by Mr. Kano and believed it provides the best opportunity for success.

Jim Carter clarified that a 25-foot turn radius would be ideal, however, the question was who
should pay for it. He asked what additional impacts the project will create for which it is fair to
ask the developer to mitigate. Given the site and existing constraints, he was comfortable with
the proposed solution. He did not want to make a disproportionate request of the developer.

Chair Ricks commented that the proposed development will result in increased traffic and
change the dynamic of the road. She considered a 25 foot radius to be reasonable.

Mr. Kruckenberg addressed the sidewalk and stated that at the last meeting, Commissioner
Holbrook suggested marrying the two subdivisions. He considered the sidewalk to be a great

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/19/2020

                                                  3
way to do that. He is providing a solution to a pre-existing problem and creating pedestrian
access from Tobermory on Oban that will serve all of the Tobermory residents. He considered
this to be a good way to comply with the request of the Planning Commission, provide
pedestrian access, not focus all of the pedestrian traffic onto one location, and provide a
landscaping buffer to Lot 16. He commented that it is very difficult for the new project to
remedy the existing problem. Mr. Kruckenberg wants to work with the Planning Commission
and has provided good solutions that comply with the ordinance. He was frustrated by being
required to bear the cost of repairing the infrastructure that was created for Tobermory residents.

Mr. Kruckenberg commented that the traffic study did not recommend widening the road, adding
a sidewalk, or increasing the radius from Spring Lane onto Tobermory Way. He pointed out that
he has done all three. He asked the Commission to recommend approval of the request.

Chair Ricks was not comfortable approving a request that does not include a wider road, a
continuous sidewalk, and a 25-foot turn radius. Chris Layton was concerned that that might be
overreaching. He explained that Mr. Kruckenberg has responded to all of the concerns and
feedback expressed and many skilled professionals have agreed with his solutions.
Commissioner Layton was inclined to approve the project as currently designed. He believed
Mr. Kruckenberg has met the requirements and has been very patient.

Chair Ricks referred to the purpose of PUDs in the ordinance. One is the stabilization and
preservation of the existing or planned land uses in abutting areas and surrounding residential
neighborhoods. Another is to provide safe and convenient vehicle and pedestrian connections
between adjacent uses. Chris Layton commented that the applicant has done all of those things.

Commissioner Carter moved to approve the Conditional Use Permit for Weyburn Retreat
subject to the following:

Conditions:

       1.       A Shared Maintenance Agreement shall be entered into between the HOAs of
                both projects.

       2.       All exterior lighting shall be downlit and night sky compliant.

       3.       The Salt Lake City water provider issue a will serve letter.

       4.       Professional designers shall be employed for architecture and landscaping.

       5.       The new drawings presented at this meeting shall be adopted.

       6.       There shall be a 15-foot radius cut around the box.

TRC Findings:

       1.     The use is consistent with the city’s general plan and the zone in which it is
              located.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/19/2020

                                                 4
       2.     The use is compatible with the land use character in the immediate area.

       3.     Provides a more affordable housing alternative to single-family development in a
              time of dramatic housing shortages locally and regionally.

       4.     Enhances property values in the area as it replaces underutilized institutional
              use, contrasts with older development to the east, and dovetails with existing
              similarly zoned recent development immediately to the south.

       5.     Will result in minimal traffic impact on (no through traffic) on adjacent
              residential neighborhoods.

       6.     Will have minimal impact on adjacent public streets, 1300 E and Spring Lane.

       7.     The PUD as proposed complies with the allowance for this amount and type of
              development in the R-M zone. No more than 16 total dwellings; 8 twin-homes
              will be allowed.

       8.     The height of the dwellings complies with the R-M zone. Height will not exceed
              30 feet as defined by City ordinance.

       9.     The buildings are no more than two stories abutting Tobermory.

       10.    Buildings meet or exceed the minimum 20-foot setback for development on
              corner properties from both Spring Lane and 1300 East.

       11.    Improves pedestrian access.

       12.    Preserves vegetation and open space and minimizes impact on the slopes and
              will add new tree canopy to the community.

       13.    Vehicular access to the site (ingress/egress plan) is in line with the
              recommendations of the City’s professional transportation consultant, Dr. Joe
              Perrin, (Traffic study on file) regarding capacity and safety including:

               a.     Tobermory Lane as proposed by the applicant will be widened by 2 feet
                      for each travel lane; (see attached graphic). This will provide a total of
                      22 feet of right-of-way width with 20 feet drivable instead of 16 feet
                      currently. (See attached graphic).

               b.     Adding a stripe to the middle of Tobermory lane as recommended by
                      Dr. Perrin.

               c.     Installation of a four-foot-wide sidewalk from Weyburn Lane to Spring
                      Lane for use of all residents of both Tobermory Ridge and Weyburn


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/19/2020

                                                5
                      with the applicant granting access across private property for the
                      general public to use and enjoy. (See attached graphic).

       14.    The architecture (See attached color graphics) is attractive and in character with
              other PUDs in Holladay.

In response to a question about the radius, Commissioner Layton explained that currently, the
radius is 15 feet from Spring Lane and Tobermory Way. A 25-foot radius would broaden the
shape of the arc, which would extend across the utilities. He commented that 25 feet is a very
broad turning radius for a small street. By comparison, it was noted that the radius into Weyburn
is 28 feet. Sidewalk continuity and safety issues were discussed.

Commissioner Layton seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Ann Mackin-Nay, Troy
Holbrook-Nay, Chris Layton-Aye, Jim Carter-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-
Nay. The motion failed 3-to-3.

Troy Holbrook commented that the 15-foot radius is not ideal but significantly better than what
exists currently. He was concerned about the positioning of a continuous sidewalk and proposed
that it be on the west side of Tobermory to align with what exists north of Weyburn Lane.

Chris Layton was bothered that the Commissioners have become the project site planners. He
stressed the importance of the Commission giving feedback but not doing the job of the applicant
and his design team. To him, it seemed overreaching. Jim Carter agreed. He considered
offering alternatives to be more valuable. Chair Ricks did not intend to be overreaching but
wanted to ensure safety. It was her opinion that the traffic study in the current environment has
inconsistencies.

Ann Mackin considered it problematic for the applicant to have to deal with a road with issues.
She was sensitive to the fact that he is being forced to rectify long-standing issues. She thought
it was reasonable to ask for a sidewalk that does not meander through the parking spaces and did
not consider it to be a burden on the applicant. Commissioner Carter thought the focus should be
on who should pay for the fix. He did not think it was fair to ask the applicant to bear the cost.

Chris Layton agreed that the sidewalk should be located on the west side of Tobermory but was
opposed to imposing that on Mr. Kruckenberg. In response to the comissioner’s discussion, the
applicant agreed to move the sidewalk to the west side of Tobermory so it is continuous from
Spring Lane to the boundary of the Tobermory development.

Commissioner Carter moved to approve the Conditional Use Permit for Weyburn Retreat
subject to the following:

Conditions:
       1.      The sidewalk shall be constructed on the west side of Tobermory Way.

       2.      A Shared Maintenance Agreement shall be entered into between the HOAs of
               both projects.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/19/2020

                                                6
       3.      All exterior lighting shall be downlit and night sky compliant.

       4.      The Salt Lake City water provider issue a will serve letter.

       5.      Professional designers shall be employed for architecture and landscaping.

       6.      The new drawings presented at this meeting shall be adopted.

       7.      There shall be a 15-foot turn radius cut around the utility box.

TRC Findings:
      1.      The use is consistent with the city’s general plan and the zone in which it is
              located.

       2.      The use is compatible with the land use character in the immediate area.

       3.      Provides a more affordable housing alternative to single-family development in
               a time of dramatic housing shortages locally and regionally.

       4.      Enhances property values in the area as it replaces underutilized institutional
               use, contrasts with older development to the east, and dovetails with existing
               similarly zoned recent development immediately to the south.

       5.      Will result in minimal traffic impact on (no through traffic) on adjacent
               residential neighborhoods.

       6.      Will have minimal impact on adjacent public streets, 1300 E and Spring Lane.

       7.      The PUD as proposed complies with the allowance for this amount and type of
               development in the R-M zone. No more than 16 total dwellings; 8 twin-homes
               will be allowed.

       8.      The height of the dwellings complies with the R-M zone. Height will not exceed
               30 feet as defined by City ordinance.

       9.      The buildings are no more than two stories abutting Tobermory.

       10.     Buildings meet or exceed the minimum 20-foot setback for development on
               corner properties from both Spring Lane and 1300 East.

       11.     Improves pedestrian access.

       12.     Preserves vegetation and open space and minimizes impact on the slopes and
               will add new tree canopy to the community.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/19/2020

                                                7
       13.     Vehicular access to the site (ingress/egress plan) is in line with the
               recommendations of the City’s professional transportation consultant, Dr. Joe
               Perrin, (Traffic study on file) regarding capacity and safety including:

              a.      Tobermory Lane as proposed by the applicant will be widened by 2 feet
                      for each travel lane; (see attached graphic). This will provide a total of
                      22 feet of right-of-way width with 20 feet drivable instead of 16 feet
                      currently. (See attached graphic).

               b.     Adding a stripe to the middle of Tobermory lane as recommended by
                      Dr. Perrin.

               c.     Installation of a four-foot-wide sidewalk from Weyburn Lane to Spring
                      Lane for use of all residents of both Tobermory Ridge and Weyburn
                      with the applicant granting access across private property for the
                      general public to use and enjoy. (See attached graphic).

       14.     The architecture (See attached color graphics) is attractive and in character
               with other PUD’s in Holladay.

Commissioner Lloyd seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Chris Layton-Nay, Jim Carter-
Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, Ann Mackin-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Nay.
The motion carried 4-to-2.

Commissioner Carter moved to approve the preliminary plat for the Weyburn Retreat
Subdivision with the changes shown on the most recent rendering to include the following:

       1.      The 15-foot radius turn radius around the utility box

       2.      The widening shall be shown on the plat.

       3.      Location of a sidewalk on the west side of Tobermory to connect the Weyburn
               and Tobermory projects.

Conditions:
       1.      The sidewalk shall be constructed on the west side of Tobermory Way.

       2.      A Shared Maintenance Agreement shall be entered into between the HOAs of
               both projects.

       3.      All exterior lighting shall be downlit and night sky compliant.

       4.      The Salt Lake City water provider issue a will serve letter.

       5.      Professional designers shall be employed for architecture and landscaping.

       6.      The new drawings presented at this meeting shall be adopted.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/19/2020

                                                8
       7.      There shall be a 15-foot radius cut around the box.

       8.      Ensure that the preliminary plat dovetails with the conditional use approval and
               conditions.

TRC Findings:
      1.      The use is consistent with the city’s general plan and the zone in which it is
              located.

       2.      The use is compatible with the land use character in the immediate area.

       3.      Provides a more affordable housing alternative to single-family development in
               a time of dramatic housing shortages locally and regionally.

       4.      Enhances property values in the area as it replaces underutilized institutional
               use, contrasts with older development to the east, and dovetails with existing
               similarly zoned recent development immediately to the south.

       5.      Will result in minimal traffic impact on (no through traffic) on adjacent
               residential neighborhoods.

       6.      Will have minimal impact on adjacent public streets, 1300 E and Spring Lane.

       7.      The PUD as proposed complies with the allowance for this amount and type of
               development in the R-M zone. No more than 16 total dwellings; 8 twin-homes
               will be allowed.

       8.      The height of the dwellings complies with the R-M zone. Height will not exceed
               30 feet as defined by City ordinance.

       9.      The buildings are no more than two stories abutting Tobermory.

       10.     Buildings meet or exceed the minimum 20-foot setback for development on
               corner properties from both Spring Lane and 1300 East.

       11.     Improves pedestrian access.

       12.     Preserves vegetation and open space and minimizes impact on the slopes and
               will add new tree canopy to the community.

       13.     Vehicular access to the site (ingress/egress plan) is appropriate regarding
               capacity and safety including:

               a.     Tobermory Lane as proposed by the applicant will be widened by 2 feet
                      for each travel lane; (see attached graphic). This will provide a total of


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/19/2020

                                                9
                      22 feet of right-of-way width with 20 feet drivable instead of 16 feet
                      currently. (See attached graphic).

               b.     Adding a stripe to the middle of Tobermory lane as recommended by
                      Dr. Perrin – the City’s professional transportation consultant.

               c.     Installation of a four-foot-wide sidewalk from Weyburn Lane to Spring
                      Lane for use of all residents of both Tobermory Ridge and Weyburn
                      with the applicant granting access across private property for the
                      general public to use and enjoy. (See attached graphic).

       14.     The architecture (See attached color graphics) is attractive and in character
               with other PUD’s in Holladay.

Commissioner Mackin seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Troy Holbrook-Aye, Chris
Layton-Aye, Jim Carter-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Ann Mackin-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Nay.
The motion passed 5-to-1.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
2.     “Tolcate Cove” Mixed-Use Retail/Residential – Conceptual and Preliminary – 5867
       South Tolcate Lane (R-1-43 Zone).
Mr. Allred presented the staff report and stated that the request is for a two-lot subdivision on
property located at 5867 South Tolcate Lane. The location of the subject property was
described. The applicant is requesting to subdivide the property from one lot into two. The lots
both face on Tolcate and no street dedication is required. Both lots meet the minimum lot size
requirement and meet all City requirements.

Mr. Allred reported that the applicants have not submitted sufficient information to receive a
preliminary plat approval. After taking public input, staff recommended approval of the
conceptual plat only.

The applicant, John Thomas apologized for not having the preliminary plat ready. He reported
that two neighborhood meetings were conducted before the application was submitted. The
neighbors vehemently opposed the first submission so the applicants revised the drawing and
held a second meeting where there was strong support. They plan to develop immediately and
demolish the existing workshop on the property.

Chair Ricks opened the public hearing.

Comments were received via email from Craig Broussard, a neighbor who was concerned about
construction equipment on the site. He asked that it be removed as soon as possible and before
final approval is granted. Mr. Broussard had longstanding concerns with the site being used
commercially. Mr. Allred suggested that any motion be subject to there being no commercial
use on the property. He reported that numerous complaints had been received by staff. Timing
issues were addressed with regard to commercial use ceasing on the property.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/19/2020

                                               10
Mr. Thomas stated that heavy equipment is needed on the property to do landscaping and other
site work. Chair Ricks stated that it is an eyesore and complaints have been received. Chris
Layton asked why the property owners parking their own vehicles on the site differs from others
doing the same thing. Mr. Allred stated that the two situations are different. A person storing an
RV on their private property is legal if done correctly. In this case, there have been construction
vehicles coming and going from the site as well as construction materials and dust emanating
from the property. The site has been used as a commercial property rather than residential. A
long list of violations has been noted by staff and there has been no dissent on the part of the
applicant.

Mr. Thomas reported that they are building another home nearby and have used the property for
staging. They are in the process of developing and selling both properties as residential. Chair
Ricks informed Mr. Thomas that the activity taking place is not allowed on a residential lot.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Lloyd moved to grant subdivision concept approval for property located at 5867
Tolcate Lane contingent upon:

       1.      The removal of commercial equipment not currently being used on the lot.

       2.      The applicants shall resolve Code violations that have been noticed by June 9,
               2020.

The above conditions were to be resolved within two weeks. Commissioner Mackin seconded
the motion. Vote on motion: Troy Holbrook-Aye, Chris Layton-Aye, Jim Carter-Aye, Ann
Mackin-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

3.      “The Apollo” Mixed-Use Retail/Residential – Conceptual Site Plan and
        Architectural Design – 2265 East Murray Holladay Road (HV).
City Planner, Jonathan Teerlink presented the staff report and stated that a recommendation was
received from the Design Review Board (“DRB”) with several iterations presented. An
architectural and conceptual layout and use reviews were to take place tonight. The seven
driveways that currently exist will be reduced to two approaches, which will greatly improve
safety. Ground floor retail is required on the 1.41-acre site. Residential is proposed on the upper
levels. The Technical Review Committee (“TRC”) reviewed the site plan for safety access, use,
and architecture and were comfortable with the site layout and density.

Mr. Teerlink reported that 295 notices were mailed out and pointed out that any project in the
Village is heavily noticed. Chair Ricks suggested that the public hearing remain open beyond
tonight to allow the public more time to submit comments.

The applicant, Chris Ensign was present with Nate Brockbank and their Project Architect. He
explained that the proposed project will provide additional shopping opportunities within the
Village. The majority of the parking will be beneath the building for residents and employees.
27 residences are proposed on the second and third floors. A neighborhood meeting was held
and Mr. Ensign personally sent out over 250 mailers. The primary concerns expressed were with

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/19/2020

                                                11
the height and scale of the project, the impact on views, and parking. Mr. Ensign stated that a
public art component will be presented at a future date. Concerning the billboard, they will not
renew the lease and it will be removed as soon as possible.

Chair Ricks opened the public hearing.

Autumn Bushman gave her address as 2270 East Murray Holladay Road and asked about
parking, infrastructure, and traffic associated with the project. Mr. Ensign stated that the back of
the property includes an easement. Two access points that go to Murray Holladay Road were
identified. A 30-foot easement runs along the back of the parcel that provides access to Holladay
Village Sections A and B. He clarified that it is an access easement and not a parking easement.
The area previously used for parking will not be available in the future.

Teresa Jacobs, a Holladay Villas resident, stated that she is Ms. Bushman’s neighbor in the four-
plex closest to the brick wall and the existing retail shops. If the access is moved to the center,
the circulation will be tighter. Once the parking in the easement is lost, she asked where
residents can park. She also asked if the residents could purchase a portion of the parcel for
parking. Every home has one space but nearly half of the residents have a second vehicle.
Parking issues were discussed.

Jo Gonzales gave her address as 2270 East Murray Holladay Road and echoed the two previous
comments. She serves on the HOA Board and a few years ago they had to move the dumpster
from the back of their lot because the weight of the truck destroyed the driveway. Over the past
few years, they repaved the driveway and moved the dumpster near the entrance. In the corner,
circulation is tight and she was worried about garbage truck access. Ms. Gonzales was also
concerned about parking as she and her husband each have one vehicle.

Those who did not receive notice of tonight’s meeting were encouraged to contact staff.

Mr. Ensign reported that there are 1,000 parking stalls available in the Holladay Village that are
empty at night. He expected there to be ample parking available for visitors.

A resident of Holladay Village B reiterated her concerns about parking. She realized it is not the
applicant’s responsibility to resolve the parking issue but pointed out that she and her husband
also each have one car with only one parking stall. She stated that parking will likely be an
ongoing concern for many residents.

Ms. Gonzales commented on the sidewalk and potential access. Chair Ricks’ understanding was
that there will only be access on the far ends. Mr. Ensign commented that he has no intention of
restricting pedestrian access.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing remained open through preliminary
approval.

Potential locations for public art were discussed as well as ways to promote it in the community.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/19/2020

                                                12
Parking issues were discussed. Mr. Ensign stated that they tried to provide as many stalls as
possible for the retail experience. The underground parking will be via FOB access only for
residents and retail employees. The intent was to dedicate parking beneath the building and keep
as many as possible above ground. Another gate will be provided for residential only parking
that will accommodate most of the east portion of the underground stalls. Mr. Ensign described
a project he developed where 70% of the parking was tandem stalls. While he was concerned at
the time, they worked well in the end. To ensure that there is enough parking, they plan to
provide more parking than is required.

Ann Mackin asked for feedback from staff on what is working in the Village in terms of parking.
Mr. Allred stated that the angled stalls have been popular and work well. He uses parallel stalls
frequently and finds them easy to use and frequently open. Angled stalls require more right-of-
way width.

Mr. Allred explained that the difficulty with this location is that Murray Holladay Road is the
most traveled road in the City. As a result, parallel parking can be problematic. It does,
however, naturally slow down traffic.

Commissioner Lloyd moved to approve the Conceptual Site Plan and Building Design for The
Apollo at 2240-2254 East Murray Holladay Road. The public hearing was left open through
preliminary approval based on the following:

Findings:
       1.      The building location and architecture has been approved.

       2.      Site development details are compatible with the vision and standards of the
               Holladay Village.

       3.      Subject to the project being serviced by all life safety utilities and further
               examination and discussion on the proposed parking plan.

       4.      Safe, predictable traffic patterns are proposed.

The following areas to be highlighted at preliminary plat review:

       1.      Programming for tandem stalls.

       2.      Dedication of Murray Holladay Road.

       3.      Public amenity – consider art installation on the blank wall behind the
               billboard.

       4.      Clarified plan for the design of off-street stalls.

       5.      Public art installation to be determined later.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/19/2020

                                                 13
Commissioner Carter seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Ann Mackin-Aye, Troy
Holbrook-Aye, Chris Layton-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Jim Carter-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-
Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

ACTION ITEMS
4.    Approval of Minutes – 4/7/20.
The minutes were not available for review.

Commissioner Mackin moved to table approval of the April 7, 2020 meeting minutes to June
2, 2020. The motion was not seconded. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

5.     ADJOURN
Commissioner Mackin moved to adjourn. The motion was not seconded. The motion passed
with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 9:45 p.m.


I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the City
of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held Tuesday, May 19, 2020.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary



Minutes Approved:     07/07/2020




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/19/2020

                                               14
