                         MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
                          PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                  Tuesday, February 4, 2020
                                          7:00 p.m.
                                  Holladay Municipal Center
                                    4580 South 2300 East

ATTENDANCE:

Planning Commission Members:                        City Staff:
Marianne Ricks, Chair                               Jonathan Teerlink, City Planner
Chris Layton                                        Robert Hobbs, City Planner
Alyssa Lloyd
Ann Mackin

WORK SESSION
The Work Session was called to order 6:30 p.m.            The agenda items were reviewed and
discussed. City Planner, Jonathan Teerlink, stated that it may not be necessary to continue the
public hearing depending on how many are present. Based on the numerous comments received
on the Holladay Crossroads item, staff prepared a final draft for review by the Commission.

The Commission next addressed the Preliminary Plat for the Holladay Highlands Number 5
Planned Unit Development (“PUD”). Chair Ricks recalled that there were trash collection issues
previously that were never resolved. Mr. Teerlink explained that staff addressed the issue as best
they could and contacted Wasatch Front Recycling who indicated that their truck can not access
the area and turn around. There is a paved access road, however, the property owner stores a
boat in the turnaround. The garbage trucks can only access roads that will support their weight.
The proposal was to construct a road to allow better access for garbage trucks. It was noted that
regardless of concerns about garbage pick-up, there are still issues pertaining to maintaining
emergency access.

The Commission previously requested that staff study these concerns and attempt to resolve the
outstanding issues. A comment was made that the Commission should encourage the applicant
to review the concerns about access. Mr. Teerlink stated that the applicant previously went
above and beyond in meeting the conditions of approval.

Commissioner Lloyd moved to adjourn. Commissioner Mackin seconded the motion. The
motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Meeting adjourned at 6:56 p.m.

CONVENE REGULAR MEETING – Public Welcome and Chair Opening Statement.
Chair Marianne Ricks called the Regular Meeting to order at approximately 7:00 p.m. and read
the Commission statement.

PUBLIC HEARING

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/2020

                                                1
1.     Continued – Consideration of Ordinance 13.66, Holladay Crossroads Zone (HCR).
Chair Ricks opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

City Planner, Robert Hobbs, presented the staff report and reminded the Commission that some
edits were discussed previously. Staff prepared written responses to the edits proposed by the
Commission Members. The modifications were reviewed page-by-page.

Setback issues were discussed. The determination was made to establish the front setback at 20
feet. Chris Layton suggested setting a minimum front setback of 15 feet and a maximum of 25
feet to give developers flexibility. With regard to landscaping and interior parking lot planters, it
was recommended that they be provided at intervals not to exceed 90 feet. Landscaping and
planter dimensions and details were discussed.

The Commission next discussed structures for bicycle parking. The Commission asked staff to
include language addressing how bicycle racks are to be attached to structures. It was
determined that there should be one bicycle rack for every 10 required parking spaces. It was
requested that language on curb and driveway standards include a reference for compliance with
other Holladay Code chapters addressing the topic. It was suggested that the yellow and blue
highlighting be removed in the next version for review.

It was suggested that conditions be added to address the permitting of establishments that serve
alcohol, especially with respect to proximity to residential neighborhoods. It was determined
that single event permits for serving alcohol would be allowed without City Council approval. It
was noted that seasonal sales, such as Christmas tree lots, were addressed in the regulations.

Commissioner Ricks asked if any non-residential PUD exists in Holladay. It was requested that
more information be provided. Mr. Hobbs reported that public educational facilities are not
allowed by Code. Commissioner Ricks suggested removing “Charter Schools” from the section.
Commissioner Ricks disagreed with allowing assisted living facilities in commercial zones. It
was noted that motor vehicle and motorcycle sales/rental establishments are currently permitted
in the Code in commercial zones, however, the Commission directed staff to remove that use
from the Code. The Commission asked staff to incorporate the changes and return with an
updated version.

ACTION ITEMS

2.     Holladay Highlands No. 5 PUD – Preliminary Plat – 5425 South 2900 East (R-1-10).
Chair Ricks stated that the Commission was familiar with the project and had been provided with
a copy of the staff report. The applicant was not present to address the Commission.

Commissioner Mackin moved to take the agenda items out of order and next address item 3,
approval of the minutes prior to discussing the remaining agenda items. Commissioner Lloyd
seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Chris Layton-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Ann Mackin-Aye,
Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/2020

                                                 2
The Commission next addressed approval of the minutes after which they discussed the agenda
as printed.

The applicant, Analise Wilson, identified herself as the owner of the property at 5425 South
2900 East. Chair Ricks commented that during the public hearing there was concern raised
about trash pickup and the ability of garbage trucks to turn around. Ms. Wilson explained that
there is a private lane. What they are doing is adding a shared driveway. It was clarified that a
fire access already exists. Chair Ricks expressed concern for Hillsden residents who will have to
tolerate trash cans in front of their homes. She acknowledged that it is a problem and asked Ms.
Wilson to be sensitive to the neighbors. A previous condition was imposed to address concerns
about trash cans on the street and directing the applicant to work with the neighbors to reach a
resolution. With regard to issues with mailboxes, Mr. Teerlink reported that mailboxes were pre-
empted by the federal government. In was an ongoing problem elsewhere in the City as well.

Ms. Wilson reported that they conducted the studies that were requested as part of the conceptual
approval. A detailed map was obtained showing the fault lines and setbacks. Both will be noted
on the final plat. Chair Ricks informed the applicant that the recommendations set forth in the
GeoStrata Report must be adhered to.

Commissioner Lloyd moved to recommend approval of the preliminary PUD Plat amending a
portion of the Holladay Highlands #2, Holladay Highlands No. 5, previously titled “The
Upper Place” at 5424 South 2900 East and defer final plat approval to staff. Approval was
subject to the following:

Findings:
      1.      The plan provides for three single-family lots each measuring greater than the
              minimum 10,000 square feet, meeting the R-1-10 lot size requirements.

       2.     The new additional lots can be serviced by all utilities.

       3.     The Natural Hazard Study and Summary of Fault Mitigation Measures have
              been reviewed and accepted by staff.

Conditions:
        1.     A fault study shall be conducted as per Holladay Ord. 13.75.060.

        2.     All slopes greater the 30% may not be counted toward the minimum required
               area of Lot 3.

        3.     All utility service letters shall be submitted.

        4.     Staff shall renotice the matter and invite more public comment at the time of
               preliminary approval.

        5.     The placement of mailboxes shall be studied further in coordination with Public
               Works Director, Tosh Kano, and Wasatch Front Recycling to see if there are


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/2020

                                                  3
               some solutions to help mitigate the impact of 16 to 20 garbage cans at the end
               of the street.

        6.     The state of 2900 East shall be studied as a private road to ensure that the
               service is adequate and meets the standards.

        7.     Special emphasis shall be placed on the GeoStrata report provided in the
               summary on page 7.

Commissioner Layton seconded the motion. Vote on motion. Ann Mackin-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-
Aye, Chris Layton-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

3.     Approval of Minutes – 1/14/19, 3/19/19, 4/30/19, 6/4/19, 11/19/19, 12/10/19, and
       1/7/20.
The minutes of January 14, 2019, were reviewed and modified. Mr. Teerlink reported that the
minutes had not previously been prepared.

Commissioner Mackin moved to approve the minutes of January 14, 2019, as modified.
Commissioner Lloyd seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Ann Mackin-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-
Aye, Chris Layton-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

The minutes of March 19, 2019, were reviewed and discussed.

Because the minutes of March 19, April 30 and June 4 were not in the packets, the determination
was made to continue approval to a future meeting.

The minutes of November 19, 2019, were reviewed and modified.

Commissioner Lloyd moved to approve the minutes of November 19, 2019. Commissioner
Layton seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Ann Mackin-Aye, Chris Layton-Aye, Alyssa
Lloyd-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

The minutes of December 10, 2019, were reviewed.

Commissioner Mackin moved to approve the meeting minutes of the Planning Commission of
December 10, 2019, as presented with modifications from Troy Holbrook. Commissioner
Lloyd seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Chris Layton-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Ann
Mackin-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

The minutes of January 7, 2020, were reviewed and modified.

Commissioner Lloyd moved to approve the meeting minutes of January 7, 2020, as modified.
Commissioner Mackin seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Chris
Layton-Aye, Ann Mackin-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/2020

                                                4
ADJOURN
Commissioner Mackin moved to adjourn. Commissioner Lloyd seconded the motion. The
motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 8:55 p.m.


I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate and complete record of the City
of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held Tuesday, February 4, 2020.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary


Minutes Approved: April 7th 2020




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 02/04/2020

                                                5
