                          MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
                           PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                Tuesday, September 15, 2020
                                         6:30 p.m.
                           Meeting Conducted via Electronic Means

ATTENDANCE:

Planning Commission Members:                          City Staff:
Jan Bradshaw                                          Paul Allred, Community Development Director
Marianne Ricks                                        Todd Godfrey, City Attorney
Troy Holbrook                                         Stephanie Carlson, City Recorder
Chris Layton
Howard Layton
Alyssa Lloyd
Ann Mackin

WORK SESSION
Chair Jan Bradshaw called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m.

Chair Bradshaw was pleased to have Chris Layton serving as Vice-Chair and thanked Marianne
Ricks and Ann Mackin for their previous service as Chair and Vice-Chair. Chair Bradshaw
reported that she and Chris Layton will be meeting with the City Manager and legal counsel each
Monday before Regular Planning Commission Meetings. They will work diligently to study and
understand the issues before them at each meeting and provide additional information as needed.
She asked that each Commission Member come to meetings prepared having read through the
materials provided in advance. She challenged the Commission Members to get to know the
process and be prepared in advance to make motions. For tonight’s meeting, she reached out to
Marianne Ricks and Troy Holbrook. She also asked Community Development Director, Paul
Allred to prepare a script to familiarize them with the process.

Chair Bradshaw reminded the Commission Members that they are the face of the community and
the first group most citizens and applicants interact with. She wanted them to understand what a
fair land use public process is and what it looks like from both sides. She stressed that the Planning
Commission regulates land use but does not control it.

The agenda items were reviewed and discussed. There were two administrative applications on
the agenda, which means that decisions are based on applicants meeting the ordinance
requirements. Procedural issues were discussed.

Mr. Allred reported on the Hope Ranch Subdivision, which is a deep lot subdivision that is
sometimes referred to as a landlocked subdivision. The proposal was for a home behind a home
on Wander just a short distance north of 4500 South. It is a super conforming property in that it
has plenty of land and does not need to be rezoned. The property is zoned R-1-10 with a home in
the front. The applicant is requesting to build a home in the back.



                                          City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 09/15/2020

                                                  1
The Technical Review Committee (“TRC”) reviewed the proposal where concerns were raised
regarding privacy, the size of the road, and construction. Staff was still looking at whether full
curb, gutter, and sidewalk will be required. Mr. Allred noted that sidewalks in the City are
inconsistent and part of what makes the City of Holladay unique. He explained that the applicants
will have to retain an area where dirt is being cut, which has caused frustration among the
neighbors. The staff report, however, specifies that it is not a violation of the Code.

Mr. Allred reported that there is an overhang on the home and a Code modification may be needed
to allow for a longer driveway to allow for emergency access. The TRC recommended approval
subject to findings and conditions set forth in the staff report.

Mr. Allred reported that it is necessary to resolve the current property line dispute before moving
forward to the preliminary approval stage. City Attorney, Todd Godfrey explained that when
reviewing subdivisions after the approval has been granted but before the plat is recorded, the
applicant is required to present a title report that proves ownership. These types of situations are
resolved early in the process to avoid issues later on.

Chris Layton asked if the road is excluded from the area calculation for both lots. Mr. Allred
explained that in a subdivision where there is a home behind a home it does not because the
driveway does not count against the front lot. Regardless due to the size of the lot, the applicants
in this case will not have a problem with non-conformity.

Chris Layton’s concern conceptually was that they meet all of the zone requirements. Mr. Allred
confirmed that both lots conform to the minimum and stated that in cases like this a front lot often
already has a driveway going to a garage either behind, to the side, or attached to the home. Since
it precedes subsequent lots behind it , the property owner is not penalized for having a driveway
that any lot fronting on any street has. They only count the area of the driveway or lane against
any lot between the front and back lots. Chris Layton disagreed with the premise since the area of
the lot could be increased and balance it better than they are proposing conceptually.

In response to a question raised by Ann Mackin, it was clarified that access to the back lot is
provided on the north property line. Mr. Allred stated that the applicants have already begun to
cut the road in, which some of the neighbors are not happy about, however, they are not prohibited
from doing retaining and cutting on the site.

In response to a question raised by Marianne Ricks, Mr. Allred confirmed that the road/easement
can abut the property line. Staff can require curb and gutter if it is contiguous on one side or both.
However, if there is no curb and gutter nearby, the property owner can ask for a waiver or make a
payment in lieu where the cost of future curb and gutter is paid in advance with the understanding
that it will be installed in the future by the City. Another option would be to enter into a Deferral
or Extension Agreement where the property owner agrees at some point in the future to install it
at the request of the City.

The Cottonwood Lane PUD was next addressed. Mr. Allred stated that it is a preliminary plat.
The proposed PUD Conditional Use was approved while a wider side yard was required for Lot
1. Staff was satisfied with the submittals to this point. He explained that the PUD approval
included a specific drawing that met the setback requirement for Lot 1. There were no other
conditions imposed on the project other than the drawing being amended to show the 40-foot

                                          City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 09/15/2020

                                                  2
setback. Since then, a family member who wants to build on the property to the north moved the
building pad close to the street. Staff informed them that they need to adhere to what was approved
at the PUD stage or seek an amendment. Mr. Allred had spoken to the applicant who preferred to
move the home up but was not sure how to proceed. The applicant’s preference was to get approval
tonight but Mr. Allred suggested that it be continued.

Mr. Allred explained that the reason the applicant wants to move the home closer to the street is
that the neighbors to the north prefer it. There is an extensive pond and irrigation system on this
Lot (3) and pushing the building to the back as approved, will push into some of the rocks. Staff
recommended approval unless the applicant decides to continue the matter.

Chair Bradshaw noted that the City Attorney will likely be present at most Planning Commission
Meetings going forward and she and Vice-Chair Chris Layton will meet with him before each
meeting.

Commissioner Lloyd moved to close the work session. Commissioner Mackin seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Work Session adjourned at approximately 6:30 p.m.

CONVENE ELECTRONIC MEETING – Public Welcome and Chair Opening Statement.
Chair Jan Bradshaw called the Regular Meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m.

Chair Bradshaw read the Commission statement in addition to a statement regarding the
emergency conditions that exist due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the reason for holding remote
meetings.

PUBLIC HEARING
1.       Hope Ranch Subdivision – Conceptual Plan – 4411 South Wander Lane – (R-1-10
         Zone).
Community Development Director, Paul Allred presented the staff report and stated that this is an
administrative item. He explained that if it complies with the ordinance, the Planning Commission
is obligated to grant approval. The subject property is a deep lot subdivision that involves the
simple division of one property into two. The property is zoned R-1-10, which requires a minimum
lot size of 10,000 square feet. What is proposed is 32,000 square feet for two lots. No rezone was
required nor a request to increase the natural density that already exists on the property. Staff’s
concerns included a property line issue that will need to be dealt with at the preliminary plat stage.
Consideration will also be given to whether curb, gutter, and sidewalk are needed. Staff
recommended approval subject to the findings and conditions set forth in the staff report.

The applicant, Alexandra Wade, stated that they would like to split the lot and allow a home to be
built on a lot that conforms better with the area. She noted that the surrounding lots are
substantially smaller than what is proposed. She reported that they have planted over 30 trees on
the property.

Howard Layton asked Mrs. Wade what she can do to accommodate the concerns of the neighbors.
She stated that the views of the neighbors vary. Some are extremely supportive while those with


                                          City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 09/15/2020

                                                  3
concerns will hopefully be happy with the outcome as long as they adhere to the restrictions
imposed. Mrs. Wade reported that a neighborhood meeting was held on August 6, 2020.

Chair Bradshaw opened the public hearing. Written comments submitted were made part of the
record.

Kara Houck gave her address as 4382 South Camille Street and stated that her property is located
behind the subject property. She was concerned about the driveway that was constructed before
approval was granted. She questioned whether it meets all of the ordinance requirements.

Ryan Oldroyd gave his address as 4385 South 2490 East and stated that he owns the northeastern
most property next to the proposed subdivision. He agreed with Ms. Houck and purchased his
property nine months earlier with the expectation that they would have privacy. What is proposed
will likely result in a driveway near their back window. Mr. Oldroyd wanted to ensure that the
property line is correct.

With regard to the driveway, Mr. Allred stated that they will not know if the requirements have
been met until they get to the preliminary stage. He explained that the driveway can be close to
the property line. In terms of width, the City requires 20 feet unless the Unified Fire Authority
(“UFA”) grants a Code modification. This can be done with justification.

Nikki Card gave her address as 4395 Wander Lane and was concerned about where the driveway
is being placed. She stated that the applicants are parking in the driveway, which is higher than
her lot. She stated that her privacy is at risk.

Mr. Allred reiterated that no construction, demolition, or remodeling can be done without permits
from the City, however, retaining and moving dirt is permitted. He stated that currently, the
applicants do not appear to violate any law.

Commissioner Lloyd asked about the grade difference between the subject property and the
neighboring property and if fill dirt was brought in. Mr. Allred’s understanding was that they are
manipulating grades that already exist and that not fill was brought in.

Julia Klein gave her address 4390 South Camille Street stated that Nikki Card witnessed fill and
gravel being brought to the site construct the alleged landscaping path.

Mrs. Card stated that there has been a significant amount of grading taking place on the site and
gravel and/or road base was brought in. She estimated the Wade property to be approximately five
feet higher than hers. Her recollection was that the property was that high originally. They did
some grading to bring it down and then added gravel/road base, which was of concern to her as it
caused her home to shake. She noted that the proposed entrance is on the retaining wall that the
existing fence sits on. She stated that the retaining wall has cracked more and they have brought
in road base for which she wondered if a permit was necessary.

Chris Layton stated that several of the written and verbal comments reference privacy.
Mr. Allred’s understanding was that the applicants had not changed the grade to the extent
necessary to require a permit. He also wanted to ensure that the retaining wall is engineered and
repaired. In terms of privacy, the height of a fence or wall is based on the grade that existed prior

                                         City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 09/15/2020

                                                 4
to manipulation. To go higher than six feet in a side or rear yard requires the permission of the
abutting property owners. Even if fill material is brought in, an applicant would be limited in terms
of what they can do based on the ordinance. They would not be allowed to construct a taller home
if fill were bought in because the height of a home is measured from the grade that existed before
fill material was brought in.

There were no further public comments. Chair Bradshaw closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Ricks moved that the Planning Commission approve the conceptual subdivision
plan for the Hope Ranch Subdivision at 4411 South Wander Lane as recommended in the staff
report subject to the following:

Findings:
      1.       The plans are in accordance with the intent, standards, and criteria specified in
               the Holladay City General Plan, Title 13 of the Holladay zoning ordinance, and
               all applicable ordinances;

       2.      The subdivision as proposed creates no financial hardship to the City; and

       3.      It creates no environmental consequence that will adversely impact the health,
               safety, or welfare of residents.

Conditions:
       1.      Prior to returning to the Planning Commission for Preliminary Plan Review,
               submit to the TRC the following:

               i.      All utility connection service letters;

               ii.     A detailed Grading Plan of the drive access, i.e. retaining wall, overall
                       emergency access clearances, and the concern with the overhang of the
                       existing house as the driveway to the rear lot must also have a minimum
                       height clearance of 13.5 feet; and

             iii.  Any property line disputes would need to be resolved at that stage.
Commissioner Howard Layton seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Ann Mackin-Aye, Alyssa
Lloyd-Aye, Marianne Ricks-Aye, Howard Layton-Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, Chris Layton-Aye,
Chair Jan Bradshaw-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

Mr. Allred clarified that this is the only stage of the review process where public notice is sent out.
Those interested were encouraged to monitor the City’s website for further information and action
on the request.

ACTION ITEM
2.       “5420 South Cottonwood Lane PUD” – Preliminary/Final Subdivision – 5420 South
         Cottonwood Lane – (R-1-43 Zone).
Mr. Allred presented the staff report and stated that the request involves preliminary plat review
of a three-lot PUD approved in July for the 5420 South Cottonwood Lane PUD. The PUD involved
the subdivision of nearly five acres of property into three lots. A restriction was placed on Lot 1

                                          City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 09/15/2020

                                                  5
requiring at least a 40-foot setback from the south and west property lines. Staff recommended
approval based on the findings and conditions set forth in the staff report. The amended staff
report referenced an issue regarding the proposed setback for Lot 3 as it relates to Cottonwood
Lane.

Mr. Allred stated that the applicant likely would prefer to get approval tonight and follow the
setback that is required from the PUD drawing. He would then come back to the Planning
Commission with a request to amend the setback for the northernmost lot at a future date based on
discussions they have had with the proposed property owner of Lot 3 and property owners to the
north of the subdivision. Procedural issues were discussed.

The applicant, Steve Hopkins, described the issue regarding where the home is to be placed on the
lot. He was optimistic that they can fit it into the conceptual approval but if not they will come
back and seek a change.

Commissioner Holbrook moved to approve the Preliminary Subdivision Plat for the 5420 South
Cottonwood Lane PUD as recommended in the staff report subject to the following:

Findings:
      1.       The use is consistent with the City’s General Plan and the zone in which it is
               located.
       2.      The use is compatible with the land use character in the immediate area.
       3.      Provides new single-family development opportunities within the estates area.
       4.      Compatible with existing neighborhood character custom homes on large,
               wooded lots.
       5.      Will result in very minimal traffic impact on Cottonwood Lane.
       6.      The PUD as proposed complies with the allowance for this amount and type of
               development in the R-1-43 zone.
       7.      Proposed grouping (setback flexibility) of structures in order to preserve wooded
               area result in the sharing of amenities and open space areas are characteristic
               elements of a PUD.

Conditions:
     1.        The westernmost setback for Lot #1 shall be not less than 40 feet from the western
               property line.
      2.       Tree canopy protection as indicated on the approved site plan.
      3.       All other building pads and lot line required as indicated on the approved site
               plan.
      4.       Delegate final plat approval to the TRC.
      5.       The resolution of minor corrections and revisions per TRC to the applicant.

Commissioner Lloyd seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Ann Mackin-Aye, Alyssa Lloyd-
Aye, Marianne Ricks-Aye, Howard Layton-Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, Chris Layton-Aye, Chair
Jan Bradshaw-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.




                                        City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 09/15/2020

                                                6
DISCUSSION ITEMS
3.    General Plan – Continued Review of Draft Update Amendments and Updates to
      Chapter 2: Land Use.
The Commission continued their review of Chapter 2 beginning on page 13, item 2.

Mr. Allred addressed the Mixed-Use Retail (MU-NR) designation and commented that the intent
was to not introduce additional retail and restaurant on Murray Holladay Road between the Mall
and the Village.

With regard to verbiage pertaining to the Professional Office-Commercial (PO-C) District,
Mr. Allred stated that the Planning Commission and City Council have created the new zone as a
tool to differentiate between office uses that are zoned RM and those that have been rezoned to
Professional Office. He explained that it was confusing to have RM zoning that could be either
office or residential. The zone was a carryover from Salt Lake County when the City incorporated.
The City has made a conscious decision to have property owners choose which they would like to
be in. Office owners will be encouraged to go with the PO zone unless they strenuously object
and prefer to redevelop as RM.

Howard Layton commented that multi-family sites are much more valuable than any kind of
professional office or retail, which was not the case 15 to 20 years ago. Currently, the value is two
to four times greater for a multi-family site than a commercial use site.

Commissioner Lloyd suggested that they provide opportunities for those areas, particularly in the
current COVID-19 climate. She commented that office buildings may not remain office buildings
or be as lucrative or as desirable as they have been historically. The item was flagged for further
review by the Council. Chris Layton agreed and believed there is a greater need for housing now
and in the foreseeable future than office space. Marianne Ricks was concerned that RM was added
as one of the suggested zones.

Commissioner Ricks was concerned about the potential to add RM to the Professional Office-
Commercial. She was, however, not opposed to adding Neighborhood Commercial (NC), which
is a small commercial node within a residential area. The comment was made that these areas are
areas of the City where professional uses are already established.

Mr. Allred urged the Commission to remember that the language is tied to the future land use map
and each of the districts has already been established there. He stated that it does not likely extend
into the areas they are concerned about. There was not a consensus among the Commission on the
Professional Office-Commercial (PO-C). Mr. Allred explained that the purpose of the update is
so that the City can comply with SB-34. Last year, the City made a promise to the State to update
Chapter 2 as well as the Housing Plan before the end of the year.

With regard to the Holladay Crossroads Zone, Mr. Allred reported that after a substantial waiting
period, the City Council agreed to hear the issue the following Thursday night and decide how to
move forward. Potential language to be added to page 14 was discussed.

Proposed additions to the Millrock/Old Mill Village Commercial Area were reviewed. Mr. Allred
explained that the vacant land consists of a one-acre parcel on the border with Cottonwood Heights

                                          City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 09/15/2020

                                                  7
below the Intermountain Christian School. An office building was approved on the site four or
five years earlier that never came to fruition. The consensus of the Commission was to strike the
proposed language.

The proposed additional verbiage to the section entitled “Highland Drive – Linking Disparate Land
Uses along a Busy Street” was presented. It was suggested that verbiage be added related to
Segment C, which is the Holladay Crossroads Area.

Additions to the Knudsen’s Corner section were presented. Verbiage from “an update… to the
end of the paragraph was to be stricken.
Proposed changes to the Implementation Measures section were reviewed. The decision was made
to strike the words “in location” from the second bullet point. Item eight was to be reworked by
staff.

Mr. Allred suggested that they include all of the changes and that the Planning Commission
conduct another public hearing at the next meeting based on the new changes.

4.     Accessory Dwelling Units – (“ADUs”) – Review of Draft Amendments.

5.     Waterways Protection – Review of Draft Amendments.

ADJOURN
Commissioner Mackin moved to adjourn. Commissioner Ricks seconded the motion. The
motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 8:31 p.m.


I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the City
of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held Tuesday, September 15, 2020.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary



Minutes Approved:     November 10th 2020




                                        City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 09/15/2020

                                               8
