                         MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
                          PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                    Tuesday, June 2, 2020
                                         6:30 p.m.
                           Meeting Conducted via Electronic Means

ATTENDANCE:

Planning Commission Members:                         City Staff:
Marianne Ricks, Chair                                Paul Allred, Community Development Director
Jan Bradshaw                                         Stephanie Carlson, City Recorder
Troy Holbrook                                        Robert Hobbs, Senior City Planner
Chris Layton
Alyssa Lloyd
Ann Mackin

CONVENE ELECTRONIC MEETING – Public Welcome and Chair Opening Statement.
Chair Marianne Ricks called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m. and read the
Commission statement.

PUBLIC HEARINGS

1.     “5420 Cottonwood Lane Subdivision” – Conceptual Plan – 5420 South Cottonwood
       Lane (R-1-43 Zone).
Community Development Director, Paul Allred presented the staff report and stated that the
request is for a three-lot subdivision. There is an existing home on the property where the
applicant, Steve Hopkins, currently resides. The applicant’s team has submitted the information
required for a conceptual subdivision. Proper notice was sent of tonight’s meeting and some public
comment was received. Mr. Allred explained that no rezone was involved with the request simply
being to split four acres of property into three one-acre parcels. Eventually, the intent was to
pursue a Planned Unit Development (“PUD”).

In response to a question raised, Mr. Allred stated that the current proposal is for each home to
have a separate entrance. Each home has over 100 feet of street frontage. Because Cottonwood
Lane is rustic, there is no curb, gutter, or sidewalk. The two new lots proposed will be located on
either side of the existing home. The property is heavily wooded and generally flat. There is also
a large water feature on the property that will have to be amended for the north lot to work. The
Technical Review Committee (“TRC”) reviewed the request and recommended approval of the
Conceptual Plan. Staff recommended approval based on the finding set forth in the staff report.

Chris Layton asked about the side yard setbacks in the R-1-43 zone. Mr. Allred stated that to be
compliant, a side yard would need to be 25% of the total lot width. There is also an impervious
surface area issue. A PUD would allow for flexibility for all three of the lots although there is
plenty of land available.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 06/02/2020

                                                1
Steve Hopkins, applicant and property owner, reported that he are trying to work within the rules
that have been established for single family home development. The required neighborhood
meeting was held and he received two phone calls prior to the meeting. One neighbor did not like
the idea of losing trees and was concerned with how the proposal would affect them. Mr. Hopkins
stated that there a few hundred trees on the site and they do not intend to take many of them out.
The neighbor specifically asked about the trees in front of the wall and the access. Mr. Hopkins
agreed to make the entrance narrower than 20 feet if allowed by the City. Access onto Cottonwood
Lane was also of concern and possible solutions were discussed. Mr. Hopkins spoke with another
neighbor about the one lot in the rear of the property and how it might affect her property.

Jan Bradshaw asked how close the new homes will be to the backdoor neighbors. Mr. Hopkins
stated that no plan had been submitted but the intent of the PUD is to draw development closer to
the middle of the property. Unique features of the existing home were discussed.

Chair Ricks opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Mr. Allred explained that if the applicant is granted conceptual approval tonight, they will move
into the detailed stage of the Conditional Use Permit for the PUD which requires a second public
hearing and neighborhood meeting to be held.

Commissioner Mackin moved to approve the conceptual subdivision plan for Steve Hopkins for
property located at 5420 South Cottonwood Lane based on the following:

Finding:
      1.       The submittal complies with City requirements for conceptual subdivision.

Commissioner Bradshaw seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Chris
Layton-Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, Ann Mackin-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-
Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

Commissioner Lloyd moved to amend the agenda to move the review of the meeting minutes
forward. Commissioner Mackin seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Alyssa Lloyd-Aye,
Chris Layton-Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, Ann Mackin-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Chair Marianne
Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.

The minutes were next reviewed and approved after which the agenda items were addressed as
printed.

2.     Residential Site Plan – Construction Near Upper Canal – 2802 East Valley View (R-
       1-1 Zone).

Chair Ricks reported that the above request was heard previously at which time the City Engineer
was asked to work with the applicant. A compromise had since been reached. Senior City Planner,


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 06/02/2020

                                                2
Robert Hobbs reported that in addition to the conditions listed in the staff report, the City’s
Building Inspector was asked to inspect the structure to ensure that all conditions were met.

The applicant, Clayton Runnebohm, gave his address as 2602 East Valley View Avenue. Before
submitting their exception request, they met with their neighbor who they had a disagreement with
over the first iteration of the shed. They have since reached an agreement. He had not received
any negative feedback on the proposed new plan.

Chair Ricks opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
closed.

Chair Ricks acknowledged that the building is very close to the canal and asked if the City should
have something in writing from the applicant indicating that he will assume liability in the event
of flooding. Mr. Hobbs stated that the City Engineer tried to incorporate that into the suggested
condition number three set forth in the staff report. Chair Ricks wanted to make sure that potential
liability to the City is addressed.

Commissioner Lloyd moved to approve the Special Exception to the Waterway Protection
Standards for the Runnebohm Attached Garden Shed located at 2802 East Valley View Avenue
subject to the following:

u:
       1.     Applicants/project shall comply with Property setback requirements and buildable
              area restrictions associated with City R-1-10 zoning in addition to providing such
              offset from Upper Canal as required by the Commission.

       2.     Applicants shall protect the Upper Canal from debris infiltration during the
              construction/emplacement of their shed by emplacing plywood sheets, arranged
              side to side/abutting all the length of the Upper Canal where it abuts their Property
              adjacent to the area being proposed for the shed.

       3.     Applicants shall sign a Certification of Protection (of existing irrigation and storm
              drain facilities) form prior to installing the shed.

       4.     The four proposed footings for the shed pad be placed at least 30” (inches) below
              the adjacent ground surface (for protection against frost, etc.).

       5.     The shed shall be built in conformance to the narrative provided to the City
              Engineer.
       6.     The City’s Building Inspector shall be required at the time of completion to make
              sure that the building meets all City standards, as discussed.

Findings:




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 06/02/2020

                                                 3
       1.      The proposed use and development will be in harmony with the general and
               specific purposes for which this title was enacted and for which the regulations
               of the district were established.

       2.      The proposed use and development will not substantially diminish or impair the
               value of the property within the neighborhood in which it is located.

       3.      The proposed use and development will not have a material adverse effect upon
               the character of the area or the public health, safety, and general welfare.

       4.      The proposed special exception will be constructed, arranged, and operated so as
               to be compatible with the use and development of neighboring property in
               accordance with the applicable district regulations.

       5.      The proposed use and development will not result in the destruction, loss, or
               damage of natural, scenic, or historic features of significant importance.

       6.      The proposed use and development will not cause material air, water, soil, or
               noise pollution or other types of pollution.

       7.      The proposed use and development complies with all additional standards
               imposed on it pursuant to Section 13.08.150 of this chapter.

Commissioner Mackin seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Chris Layton-
Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, Ann Mackin-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye.
The motion passed unanimously.

3.      Conditional Use Permit – Home Occupation – 4254 South Lynne Lane (R-1-10 Zone).
Mr. Allred presented the staff report and stated that home occupations that have customers coming
to the home are required to obtain Planning Commission approval. The applicant, Ivana Jourdon
is a massage therapist and would like to do massage therapy in her home between the hours of
9:00 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. and perhaps in the evening. Staff received one phone call from someone
with questions but no objections. Staff recommended approval with changes to the conditions set
forth in the staff report.

Ms. Jourdon clarified that she would see only one client at a time. She agreed to limit herself to a
maximum of four clients per day between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. She would also
like to perhaps be able to see clients one evening per week from 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Her goal
was to work when her children are in school. Ms. Jourdon confirmed that a neighborhood meeting
was held but there was no one in attendance. She had spoken to her neighbors who asked about
parking. She stated that they have a large driveway that will accommodate her clients.

Chair Ricks opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
closed.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 06/02/2020

                                                 4
Commissioner Lloyd moved to approve the application for a home occupation for Jourdon
Massage and Wellness Coaching located at 4254 South Lynne Lane subject to the following:

Findings:
      1.      A Home Occupation with customers is a conditionally allowed for this location.

       2.     No other Home Occupations are on file as being in operation with ¼ mile of this
              location.

       3.     Business operations are low-impact and all operations shall occur within the
              home.

       4.     The property owner intends to provide off-street parking.

       5.     It is not anticipated that traffic will be a problem due to the small-scale nature of
              the use.

       6.     There are no outside employees proposed or allowed with the use which will
              reduce the need for parking.

       7.     The use provides a desirable service to the community.

Conditions:
       1.     Off-street parking areas shall be maintained as available during business hours
              - no street parking allowed.

       2.     Operational permits and licensure are subject to review and revocation upon
              finding of non-compliance.

       3.     There shall be no more than one client at a time and no outside employees.

       4.     Hours of operation shall be limited to Monday through Saturday, 9:00 a.m. to
              9:00 p.m.

Commissioner Mackin seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Chris Layton-
Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, Ann Mackin-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye.
The motion passed unanimously.


ACTION ITEMS
4.    Approval of Minutes – 4/7/20 and 4/21/20.
The minutes of April 7, 2020, were reviewed and modified.

Commissioner Holbrook moved to approve the minutes of Tuesday, April 7, 2020, as amended.
Commissioner Layton seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Alyssa Lloyd-Abstained, Chris


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 06/02/2020

                                                5
Layton-Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, Ann Mackin-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-
Aye. The motion passed unanimously with one abstention.

The minutes of April 21, 2020, were reviewed and modified.

Commissioner Bradshaw moved to approve the minutes of Tuesday, April 21, 2020, as amended.
Commissioner Lloyd seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Alyssa Lloyd-Aye, Chris Layton-
Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, Ann Mackin-Aye, Jan Bradshaw-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye.
The motion passed unanimously.

DISCUSSION ITEMS
5.      Pending Ordinance Amendments and Hearing Scheduling.
Mr. Allred reported that staff asked the Council to declare a moratorium to address multiple
requests for retaining walls. The matter was set up for a public hearing in two weeks. Two
applications were received with more expected to come forward. The second issue pertained to
the Holladay Village minimum standards. Other proposed language will enforce the use of the
block face standard in calculating front setback in residential area, which involves two homes on
either side of the property in question. In all, four public hearings were scheduled for June 16.
Timing issues were discussed.

Mr. Allred reported that the City Council accepted the recommendations of the Holladay@20
Capital Improvement Committee. Assistant City Manager, Holly Smith managed the Citizens
Committee who looked at the City’s outstanding capital improvements. Over the last year, the
committee came up with excellent recommendations that were forwarded to the Council.

Commissioner Mackin reported that she met the Planning Director for the City of Millcreek who
had the highest praise for Mr. Allred. Mr. Allred appreciated the acknowledgment and stated that
they have a very good relationship with Millcreek, Murray, and Cottonwood Heights.

Chair Ricks commended staff for their excellent work.

6.    ADJOURN
Commissioner Mackin moved to adjourn. Commissioner Bradshaw seconded the motion. The
motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 8:00 p.m.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 06/02/2020

                                               6
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the City
of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held Tuesday, June 2, 2020.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary



Minutes Approved:     07/21/2020




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 06/02/2020

                                               7
