                        MINUTES OF THE CITY OF HOLLADAY
                         PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING

                                  Tuesday, May 05, 2020
                                        6:30 p.m.
                          Meeting Conducted via Electronic Means

ATTENDANCE:

Planning Commission Members:                        City Staff:
Marianne Ricks, Chair                               Paul Allred, Community Development Director
Jim Carter                                          Jonathan Teerlink, City Planner
Troy Holbrook                                       Stephanie Carlson, City Recorder
Chris Layton
Ann Mackin

CONVENE ELECTRONIC MEETING – Public Welcome and Chair Opening Statement.
Chair Marianne Ricks called the meeting to order at approximately 6:45 p.m. and read the
Commission statement.

PUBLIC HEARINGS
1.      Weyburn Retreat – Preliminary, Planned Unit Development – 1306 East Spring
        Lane (Residential Multi-Family Zone).
Materials provided to the Commission since the last meeting were identified. Jeff Kruckenberg
from Alan Kruckenberg Construction reported that he submitted a detailed written presentation
to staff and the Commission for their review. He looked forward to working with the residents
of the Tobermory Ridge Subdivision, City staff, and the Planning Commission to create a well
thought out and well-conceived Planned Unit Development (“PUD”). After the April 21
Planning Commission Meeting, the site plan was modified with the most significant issue being
the widening of the existing Tobermory Way lane. This change provided 20 feet of flat asphalt
driveway instead of 16 feet. A four-foot sidewalk was also added from the intersection of Spring
Lane and Tobermory Way to the intersection of Tobermory Way and Weyburn Lane. The
proposed enhancements will create a more accessible drive approach for residents.

Mr. Kruckenberg indicated that they have maintained some of the existing landscaping to the
east of the existing driveway. The width will be determined in the future and will be plus or
minus one foot. He considered this to be a good compromise for the safety of all of the residents
of the combined Tobermory and Weyburn Lane subdivisions. Seven guest parking stalls were
also provided at three locations within the Weyburn Retreat Subdivision. There are also two
near the approved turnaround, three adjoining the amenity, and two to the west of the existing
Tobermory Way driveway and south of the Weyburn Lane driveway. The two parallel parking
stalls will be well south of the traffic interaction between the two subdivisions. The primary
ingress/egress traffic is well to the north at the intersection of Spring Lane and Tobermory Way.
He pointed out that the net increase in traffic during peak hours is expected to be 1.3%.

Mr. Kruckenberg summarized the following modifications made to the civil engineering
drawings:


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/05/2020
                                                1
   •   The widening of Tobermory Way;
   •   Painting of the center stripe;
   •   The addition of sidewalk to the west of Tobermory; and
   •   The reduction of one parallel parking stall near Spring Lane.

Chris Layton commented that at the last meeting they discussed the ability to widen the road to
the west. It was determined to be difficult due to existing utilities. Mr. Kruckenberg had been in
communication with Rocky Mountain Power and Comcast and both were researching the two
pedestals to the west of the existing Tobermory Way driveway.

Chair Ricks was waiting to see the changes made that were discussed at the last meeting
including the elimination of parking on the west side of Tobermory Way, the sidewalk to be
constructed, and the road widened. Mr. Kruckenberg referenced the road cross-section of the
modified Tobermory Way with an overall width of 22 feet and a flat drive width of 20 feet. The
limiting factor on the west side was described. He explained that he cannot randomly move the
Rocky Mountain Power pedestals. Asphalt was added on the east side to create a 20-foot wide
flat driving surface that is four feet wider than is currently available. The right side of the
drawing shows a six-inch curb wall that will be necessary to contain the change in grade between
the bottom of the fence of the existing patios in the Sandpiper development and the modified
Tobermory Way.

Mr. Kruckenberg was waiting to hear back on whether the utilities can be moved. His
understanding was that the utilities were in place to serve the Tobermory Ridge Subdivision.
Chair Ricks did think it was incumbent upon the developer to fix the problems that currently
exist. She commented that the road should have been wider at the time the project was
developed. Her concern was taking an existing problem and not resolving it.

The site plan was displayed and Mr. Kruckenberg explained that the two parallel parking stalls to
the west of the existing Tobermory Ridge are part of the required number per the PUD
ordinance, which requires eight. Currently, there are seven. Traffic circulation in relation to the
proposed parking was discussed. Commissioner Mackin commented that often in these types of
developments, there is a parking stall in front of the garages for guests.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Layton, Mr. Kruckenberg explained that the
distance between Units 1 and 16 and the existing retaining wall is 30 feet. Adding an additional
guest parking stall onto the end of that street would add 18 feet and place it 12 feet from the
existing retaining with a grade change of approximately 15 feet. Since the previous iteration, the
development shifted to the west to accommodate the widening of Tobermory Ridge and the
inclusion of the sidewalk. He questioned whether the guest parking stalls will be heavily used.

Commissioner Holbrook addressed safety issues with the sidewalk and the potential to continue
the sidewalk along the west side of the lane. Mr. Kruckenberg was sensitive to the safety issue
and stated that rebuilding the entire Tobermory Ridge access for a substandard development puts
an onus on the developer. Possible options were discussed.

Chair Ricks opened the public hearing.



City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/05/2020
                                                2
Kristine Goddard gave her address as 5061 South Oban Way in Tobermory Ridge. She
addressed the parking spaces in question. She questioned how guests will park in the Weyburn
Retreat Subdivision. She found the parking situation very confusing. She disagreed with Mr.
Kruckenberg about the guest parking not being used based on their guest parking situation. She
described difficulties they have had keeping residents out of the guest parking stalls. The design
as shown does not provide for driveways in front of the residences. She also considered the
location of the stalls to be difficult in terms of flow. Ms. Goddard commented that at the last
meeting the intent was for the sidewalk to go all the way back to her property.

Burt Willie from the law firm of Smith Knowles, was present representing the Tobermory Ridge
HOA. He drafted a new agreement that was provided to the Commission. The HOA is
concerned about a major change in use and an increasing number of units. He submitted a letter
including the issues addressed at the last meeting. Mr. Willie pointed out that currently, the
HOA has an obligation to maintain Tobermory Way. The HOA asked that the developer be
required to restore all of the landscaping, fencing, etc. that exists. Going forward, the HOA
would like the maintenance costs to be shared.

City Planner, Jonathan Teerlink clarified that the corner side yard setback is 20 feet rather than
the 15 feet reported earlier.

Doug Beck gave his address as 1511 East Tobermory Way and was concerned about the two
guest parking stalls addressed previously. He found it difficult to envision how that will work.
At the last meeting, Mr. Kruckenberg stated that he had no intention of making any change or
reduction to the east side of Tobermory Way, where there is only 3’3” from the top of the cement
curb to the fence. However, in actuality, he is going all the way to the fence. He asked what has
changed. Mr. Beck referenced the western units in Tobermory Ridge that were built on the hill
on 1300 East and stated that they have gone down 55 feet more. He saw no reason to shift
development further to the west.

Mr. Kruckenberg reiterated that their proposal does not include building the roadway directly
against the fence to the east. There is a landscaped buffer there with a curb wall to prevent cars
from impacting the existing fence. There will be approximately 18 inches from the curb to the
existing fence. Community Development Director, Paul Allred reported that when Tobermory
was built there was a four-foot buffer.

Diana Tyson, who resides at 1319 East Tobermory Way, echoed the comments made by Mr.
Beck and Ms. Goddard.

Peggy Schultz-Beck gave her address as 1311 East Tobermory Way and stated that she has
served on the HOA board since 2015. The proposed road would butt up against the fence. The
Tobermory Way residents want assurance that once construction is complete, remediation will
take place. Moving forward, if the fences are damaged or ruined on the opposite side, the
necessary repairs should be made by the Weyburn Retreat HOA. Ms. Schultz-Beck reported that
she measured 3’3” from the top of the curb on the east side to the fence rather than the four feet
claimed by Mr. Kruckenberg.
Mr. Allred stated that the Traffic Engineer and the staff report made it clear that what is proposed
can be accomplished by striping Tobermory Lane and eliminating parking on Spring Lane. The
developer offered to widen Tobermory Lane by a few feet to provide two 10-foot lanes. Staff’s

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/05/2020
                                                 3
primary concern was with right-hand turns into the project. He suggested allowing for more
space, pushing the buildings further to the west, and reducing the space between buildings on
both sides of the street from 10 feet to 8 feet. He stated that a width of nine feet is needed for a
parallel parking stall. His opinion was that it would be better to fit one on the end or in the
middle. Mr. Allred commended Mr. Kruckenberg for his efforts to widen the lane and include
the sidewalk.

Mr. Kruckenberg provided staff with an updated drawing, which was displayed. It was
completed earlier in the day and showed six guest parking stalls in the Weyburn Retreat
Subdivision, three adjoining the amenity, and three at the approved hammerhead turnaround. A
continuous sidewalk was also proposed along Tobermory Ridge.

Chris Layton did not think it would work to place the parallel parking stalls at the end and
suggested that the buildings be shifted an additional 10 feet to the west to fit an additional stall
next to the three they already have for a total of eight, which would meet the requirement.
Possible options were discussed.

Mr. Kruckenberg was willing to work with staff and the Planning Commission and wondered at
what point it becomes an unreasonable burden to address the existing Tobermory Way, which is
a non-exclusive easement. He stated that the Planning Commission can waive some
requirements of the Conditional Use Permit and the PUD requirements. He stated that perhaps
some of the guest parking could be located on Spring Lane. Troy Holbrook stated that the
priority is keeping the guest parking within the development. Commissioner Mackin agreed.

Adam Haver commented that there are still two parallel stalls. He also considered the sidewalk
going all the way down to be a benefit.

Peggy Shultz-Beck suggested there be one stall between each of the homes. She indicated that
they do not have funds in the HOA for a large new development expense.

Bart Dickerson, who resides at 1315 East Tobermory Way, suggested that if there is contention
about widening Tobermory Way that they go back to using the existing entrance that was
designed for the property.

Doug Beck pointed out that if Mr. Kruckenberg was not building the 16 units, they would not be
discussing moving the utilities. Secondly, all will benefit from the extended sidewalk and not
just the residents of Tobermory.

Kristine Goddard asked that they determine whether additional parking can be placed at the end
of the development. There are currently six proposed while eight are required. She pointed out
that Mr. Kruckenberg technically should not place the guest parking stalls along Tobermory
Way. She asked that more thought and study be put into the parking options.

Adam Haver asked if the City can give an allowance for six parking stalls only.
There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Chris Layton agreed with Mr. Kruckenberg that the utilities are in the current location to serve
Tobermory. He felt that to date Mr. Kruckenberg has made a lot of concessions and incurred

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/05/2020
                                                 4
significant cost. He noted that the residents of Tobermory have not offered to help
Mr. Kruckenberg cover the costs, which will ultimately benefit them and improve safety. He
suggested the costs be divided between the Tobermory and Weyburn Retreat projects. He
considered that to be fair and the best possible solution. Commissioner Layton saw no reason to
go to the expense of moving utilities that are specifically intended to serve the Tobermory
development.

Chair Ricks commented on the conditions that were part of the last approval. She was hesitant to
move ahead until they have been addressed. She did not feel it was the job of the Planning
Commission to solve the problem for the builder.

Chris Layton commented that the Commission has suggested very simple ways for the developer
to improve the project and meet the requirements. The concerns have been identified and
Mr. Kruckenberg can address them.

Jim Carter agreed with Commissioner Layton and stated that the City has pushed the developer
as far as they reasonably can in terms of reconfiguring a non-exclusive easement to reduce
impacts on his project and the residents of Tobermory Ridge. The only remaining issues were
whether there are options to obtain two additional parking spaces on the site. He also did not
believe the cost should be borne only by the developer. He stated that there is room on the site to
accommodate two parking stalls.

Ann Mackin was concerned that the project is imposing on the larger community.
Commissioner Carter would not be in favor of any sort of mandatory payment to move the
utilities but if he was a resident, he would be interested in being offered the opportunity to
participate. Commissioner Mackin did not support moving forward because they are creating an
intersection that is already burdened. Commissioner Carter agreed that they should not support
the request if an unsafe situation is created. He saw no evidence, however, that that was the case.

Mr. Allred pointed out that the traffic study conducted by Dr. Joe Perrin did not identify
significant safety issues. The expectation was that Weyburn Retreat will add a 40% load to
Tobermory. In addition, widening and striping the road will be beneficial. Dr. Perrin’s primary
concern was to not provide access off of the existing ingress/egress through the church. He
considered that to be dangerous as well as allowing parking on Spring Lane. Mr. Allred’s
opinion differed. He believed that having no parking on Spring Lane alone will help with traffic
visibility.

Mr. Allred reported that Dr. Perrin did not recommend that the opening be widened. That was
something staff considered to be advisable but not something Mr. Kruckenberg could be forced
to do.

Troy Holbrook considered the onsite parking to be important because they are already dealing
with parking issues outside of the project. He was concerned that if not resolved, the problem
will flow outside of the project and impact other residents. He was unsure of the impact of
moving the utilities. He commented, however, that Mr. Kruckenberg had done a very good job
of moving further to the east but it did not resolve the right turn in. Commissioner Holbrook
believed that now was the time to resolve the matter rather than push the impact onto Spring
Lane.

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/05/2020
                                                5
Chair Ricks reported that she lives very close to this intersection and agreed that it is busy. She
was not comfortable with two cars going in and out and suggested the problem be resolved
before allowing further development. She did not consider it to be an issue of cost and felt it was
imperative that the road be widened and a sidewalk constructed. She stood behind the conditions
set forth at the last meeting that the road be widened to 22 feet and that adequate parking be
provided for the new development. She was not sure that even the eight stalls required will be
enough. She also thought it was unreasonable to expect the residents of Tobermory will help pay
to move the utilities since they are not requiring the change.

Potential motion language and conditions were discussed. Mr. Allred explained that the PUD
ordinance allows the Planning Commission to modify certain parts of the ordinance. While the
Planning Commission could reduce the number of parking stalls, he did not recommend it. He
suggested the full eight spaces be required and believed there was available space to do so.
Procedural issues were discussed as well as potential conditions.

Commissioners Holbrook, Mackin, and Carter were in favor of tabling the matter with
conditions. Chair Ricks did not support continuing the matter. She suggested the road be
widened to 22 feet and the utilities moved. Commissioner Layton was in the minority and was in
favor of approving the request with conditions.

Chair Ricks moved to continue the request for a Conditional Use Permit for Weyburn Retreat
PUD located at 1306 Spring Lane. The following information was sought:

       1.      Provide adequate parking on site.

       2.      Provide information on the continuance of the sidewalk design.

       3.      Provide specifics of a Shared Maintenance Agreement.

       4.      Provide additional information on the moving of utilities with the goal being to
               widen the road to 22 feet.

Commissioner Mackin seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Troy Holbrook-Aye, Ann
Mackin-Aye, Jim Carter-Aye, Chris Layton-Nay, Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion
passed 4-to-1.

2.     Cotton Bottom Inn, Preliminary Plan and Conditional Use – 6252 South Holladay
       Boulevard (LU).
Commissioner Layton was acting as the representative for the applicant in the above request. He
recused himself from the discussion and vote due to a conflict of interest.

Commissioner Mackin thanked Commissioner Layton for an email sent earlier in the week about
his perspective and why he was recusing himself.

Mr. Allred presented the staff report and thanked Chris Layton and his firm. He was comfortable
recommending approval of both the Conditional Use and Preliminary Site Plan with the
information provided. The proposal was determined to meet the requirements of the LU zone. It

City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/05/2020
                                                6
was noted that all uses in the zone are conditional. The property is already the site for a
restaurant. The intent was to refurbish the sign and additional motifs were added to the building.
Mr. Allred pointed out that there are no specific architectural requirements to be adhered to.

Staff’s primary concern was lighting, which has been resolved. Landscaping concerns were also
resolved. Ultimately, there was to be no net loss of trees. With regard to the sidewalk on 6200
South, the Request for Proposal (“RFP”) calls for park strip and sidewalk, however, because
there are utility boxes and landscaping, it was necessary to move the sidewalk off of the private
property and place it in the public right-of-way. A six-foot asphalt walk was proposed on 6200
South that will transition to a six-foot integrated sidewalk on Holladay Boulevard.

Mr. Allred received a call from a resident who initially had concerns that were unrelated to the
project. Mr. Allred described to the resident what is proposed on the site and explained that it
will have very little impact on her property. The resident felt there was too much going on in the
City. No other public comment was received.

Chair Ricks opened the public hearing.

Chris Layton, a lifelong Holladay resident, recognized the iconic nature of the building in
Holladay. For many, it has been a very meaningful part of their heritage. He was pleased that it
was being preserved and improved. Concerning sign restoration, Mr. Layton stated that they are
working with one of the best sign restorers in the area.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed with the consent of the
Planning Commission Members.

With regard to potential conditions, Mr. Allred’s primary concern pertained to the items listed on
the last page of the staff report. They deal with licensure through the State of Utah and hours of
operation. Mr. Layton stated that the biggest concern for the applicant, the business, and the
neighbors was that any outside lighting associated with outside dining or activities not extend
beyond 10:00 p.m. It was clarified that that would be separate from the interior bar areas.
Commissioner Mackin suggested they defer to the Utah Department of Alcohol Beverage
Control (“DABC”) concerning hours of operation.

Mr. Allred reminded the Commissioners that alcohol use and the restaurant as a whole are
conditional. They are considered to be approved by right but potential impacts still need to be
addressed. Commissioner Mackin did not want to encumber the establishment with onerous
rules and regulations that are outside what other businesses adhere to. She suggested they defer
to the State or County regulations.

Commissioner Carter referred to the DABC website and stated that bars and taverns may serve
alcohol from 10:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. Restaurants can serve from 11:30 a.m. to 12:00 midnight
and beer until 1:00 a.m. It was suggested that the restaurant dining patio be open until 10:00
p.m. Mr. Layton confirmed that the applicants will only be obtaining a full-service restaurant
liquor license. Mr. Allred suggested that no live music be allowed on the patio and any piped
music be at a very low level. Because there are nearby residences, staff had found live music to
be problematic with numerous complaints received from neighbors.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/05/2020
                                                7
Mr. Layton commented that there is live music at Tuscany until midnight on occasion. He
suggested they be fair to the Cotton Bottom as well. Commissioner Carter suggested the
possibility of limiting it to non-amplified music. Mr. Teerlink stated that there are currently
sound amplification ordinances in place between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
Mr. Layton indicated that his clients do not plan to have live music on the patio.

Commissioner Mackin moved to approve the Conditional Use Permit for the Cotton Bottom
Restaurant and Bar at 6252 South Holladay Boulevard subject to the following:

Findings:
       1.      The use complies with the LU zone.

       2.      The proposal will enhance the viability of the site and provide enhances sales
               and property tax benefits to the City.

       3.      The general public has asked for the city to retain this use for a number of
               years.

       4.      The use as proposed complies with the Request for Proposal issued by the City
               for this property.

       5.      The Cotton Bottom project as proposed complies with the specific requirement
               of Section 13.08 of the Holladay Code regarding conditional use as follows.

              a.     It is consistent with policies set forth in the city's general plan applicable
                     to the site where the conditional use will be located.

              b.     It is allowed by the zone regulations where the conditional use will be
                     located.

              c.     It is compatible with the character of the site, adjacent properties and
                     uses, and existing development within the vicinity of the site where the
                     use will be located.

              d.     It provides vehicular access to the site without materially degrading the
                     existing level of service of the abutting streets.

              e.     Has all driveways oriented to direct traffic to streets, major or local,
                     without impacting the safety, purpose, and character of these streets.

              f.     May have street-side parking for the proposed use, in areas of the site
                     that will not adversely impact the reasonable use of adjacent properties.

              g.     Will accommodate peak traffic to the site without impairing the use and
                     enjoyment of adjacent properties.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/05/2020
                                                8
              h.      It provides an internal circulation system designed to mitigate adverse
                      impacts on the adjacent property from motorized, nonmotorized, and
                      pedestrian traffic.

              i.      Will, upon PC imposed requirements have restricted hours of operation
                      of the proposed conditional use in relation to the hours of activity or
                      operation of other nearby uses to mitigate noise, light, odor, or other
                      nuisances that unreasonably impair the use and enjoyment of adjacent
                      properties.

              j.      Has or will have existing or proposed utility and public services will be
                      adequate to support the proposed use at normal service levels and is
                      designed in a manner to avoid adverse impacts on adjacent land uses,
                      public services, and utility resources.

              k.      Will have appropriate buffering, such as landscaping, setbacks, and
                      building location, to protect adjacent land uses from light, noise, and
                      visual impacts result.

Also, this use will not:

               a.      Contribute to a detrimental concentration of existing nonconforming or
                       conditional uses substantially similar to the use proposed within one-
                       fourth (1/4) mile of the exterior boundary of the subject property;

               b.      Result in loss of privacy, objectionable views of large parking or storage
                       areas; or views or sounds of loading and unloading areas; and

               c.      Encroach on or cause erosion of the bank of a river or stream, or direct
                       runoff into a river or stream without approval by the appropriate
                       stormwater authority.

Conditions:

       1.     The use must obtain all applicable licenses from the State of Utah DABC, the
              City of Holladay, Salt Lake County, and any other applicable entity which has
              jurisdiction over this use.

       2.     Hours of operation for outdoor use shall be limited to 10:00 p.m. as determined
              by the DABC and the City of Holladay.

       3.     Operation of the parking and patio areas shall be done in a manner to minimize
              overcrowding the parking areas, public streets, and negatively impacting
              surrounding residential property abutting restaurants and Knudsen Park.

       4.     Significant changes to the use must be approved by the City of Holladay zoning
              ordinance.


City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/05/2020
                                                9
       5.     The hours of operation for the internal use shall be as per the DABC hours of
              operation.

       6.     Keep the Cotton Bottom name and logo.

Commissioner Carter seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Ann Mackin-Aye, Jim Carter-
Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye. The motion passed unanimously. Chris
Layton did not participate in the vote.

Concerning the preliminary site plan approval, it was noted that the fencing was moved to final
site plan approval. Mr. Allred explained that Public Works Director, Tosh Kano reviewed the
preliminary site plan and had no objection to it. Staff’s primary concern with the site plan was
that the parking is minimal. As a result, there may be times when it will spill onto the road or
into the park.

Mr. Layton stated that the applicants plan to provide bike racks that will accommodate 16
bicycles. It was noted that in the games area will include various games such as ping pong,
shuffleboard, and chess.

Commissioner Carter moved to approve the preliminary site plan for Cotton Bottom based on
the following:

Findings:
      1.       The site plan complies with the requirements of the Holladay Zoning ordinance
               and with the approved checklists for this development with the exception of a
               few minor items that can be handled at staff level (TRC) after this approval.

Conditions:
       1.   Submittal and resolution by the applicant of minor remaining items identified by
            the TRC at staff level in preparation for final approval.

       2.     Delegate final site plan approval to the Technical Review Committee (“TRC”)
              but not until all preliminary site plan items are complete.

Commissioner Holbrook seconded the motion. Vote on motion:              Ann Mackin-Aye, Jim
Carter-Aye, Troy Holbrook-Aye, Chair Marianne Ricks-Aye.                 The motion passed
unanimously. Chris Layton did not participate in the vote.

3.     ADJOURN
Commissioner Mackin moved to adjourn. The motion was not seconded. The motion passed
with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at approximately 9:40 p.m.




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/05/2020
                                               10
I hereby certify that the foregoing represents a true, accurate, and complete record of the City
of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting held Tuesday, May 5, 2020.


Teri Forbes
Teri Forbes
T Forbes Group
Minutes Secretary



Minutes Approved:      06/16/2020




City of Holladay Planning Commission Meeting – 05/05/2020
                                               11
