Wasatch Front

REGIONAL
TRANSPORTATION
PLAN
2023-2050

APPROVAL
RESOLUTION
RESOLUTION OF THE WASATCH FRONT REGIONAL COUNCIL
APPROVING THE WASATCH FRONT
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023–2050

WHEREAS,

the Wasatch Front Regional Council is the officially
designated Metropolitan Planning Organization for the Salt
Lake City–West Valley City and Ogden–Layton Urbanized
Areas and, as such, has the responsibility for developing
transportation plans for both Areas, and

WHEREAS,

the Wasatch Front Regional Transportation Plan: 2023-2050
recommends improvements to the highway, transit, and
active transportation systems through the year 2050 for
both the Salt Lake City–West Valley City and Ogden–Layton
Urbanized Areas, and

WHEREAS,

the Salt Lake City–West Valley City and Ogden–Layton
Technical Advisory Committees, the Regional Growth
Committee, the Active Transportation Committee, the
Utah Department of Transportation, and the Utah Transit
Authority have been involved, along with a host of other
local and regional planning partners, stakeholders, and the
general public, in developing the Wasatch Front Regional
Transportation Plan: 2023-2050, and

WHEREAS,

the State Implementation Plan, which outlines how national
air quality standards will be attained, includes goals and
objectives for reducing air pollutant emissions from mobile
sources for the Wasatch Front Urban Areas, and

WHEREAS,

the Wasatch Front Regional Transportation Plan: 2023-2050
has been reviewed for conformity and consistency with the
State Implementation Plan and for its impact on regional air
quality, and

WHEREAS,

the Wasatch Front Regional Council has developed for the
Wasatch Front Regional Transportation Plan: 2023-2050 a
Financial Plan, and

WHEREAS,

the Wasatch Front Regional Transportation Plan: 20232050 addresses the requirements of the Infrastructure
Investment and Jobs Act and other applicable federal laws
and regulations, and

WHEREAS,

the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act allows illustrative projects to be identified for
informational purposes that would be included in the Wasatch Front Regional Transportation
Plan: 2023-2050 if additional funding becomes available, and

WHEREAS,

with regard to the Little Cottonwood Canyon Environmental Impact Statement, the Wasatch
Front Regional Council made the following statement of intent, that ‘WFRC supports prioritizing
of Phases 1 and 2 and implementation and evaluation of Phases 1 and 2 before advancing to
Phase 3’, and

WHEREAS,

the Wasatch Front Regional Transportation Plan: 2023-2050 has been extensively reviewed by
regional public officials, planners, engineers, and the general public, and

NOW THEREFORE LET IT BE RESOLVED, by the Wasatch Front Regional Council:
(1)

That the Wasatch Front Regional Council approves the Wasatch Front Regional
Transportation Plan: 2023-2050, and

(2)

That the Wasatch Front Regional Council finds that the Wasatch Front Regional
Transportation Plan: 2023-2050 includes a reasonable Financial Plan and addresses the
requirements identified in the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act and applicable federal
law and regulations, and

(3)

That, as documented in Air Quality Memorandum #41, the Wasatch Front Regional
Transportation Plan: 2023-2050 conforms to the applicable controls, goals, and budgets for
on-road mobile sources identified in the Utah State Implementation Plan for each of the air
quality non-attainment areas in the Wasatch Front Regional Council boundaries.

__________________________________________________________________________________
Mayor Dawn R. Ramsey, Chairperson
Wasatch Front Regional Council

__________________________________________________________________________________
Andrew S. Gruber, Executive Director
Wasatch Front Regional Council

Date: May 25, 2023

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | ii | Approval Resolution

AIR QUALITY
CONFORMITY
DETERMINATION
U.S. Department
Of Transportation

Federal Transit Administration
Region 8
1961 Stout Street,
Suite 13301
Denver, CO 80294-3007
303-362-2400

Federal Highway Administration
Utah Division
2520 West 4700 South,
Suite 9A
Salt Lake City, UT 84129
801-955-3500

May 31, 2023
In reply refer to: HDA-UT
Ms. Andrea Olson, Planning Director
Utah Department of Transportation
4501 South 2700 West
Salt Lake City, Utah 84119
Subject:

WFRC 2023-2050 Regional Transportation Plan and Air Quality Memorandum #41
Conformity Determination

Dear Ms. Olson:
The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (CAAA) require that transportation plans, programs, and
projects cannot create new National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) violations, increase the
frequency or severity of existing NAAQS violations or delay the attainment of the NAAQS. The Federal
Highway Administration (FHWA) and Federal Transit Administration (FTA) are required to make a
transportation conformity determination in non-attainment and maintenance areas as outlined in 40 CFR
93.104 and 23 CFR Part 450 and ensure consistency with the State Implementation Plan (SIP).
The Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) adopted the 2023-2050 Wasatch Front Regional
Transportation Plan and approved Air Quality Memorandum #41 on May 25, 2023, in its capacity as the
metropolitan planning organization (MPO) for the Salt Lake City/West Valley City and Ogden/Layton
urbanized areas. FHWA and FTA have concluded that the conformity analysis meets the conformity
regulations for the following non-attainment areas: Salt Lake County and Ogden City PM10; Salt Lake
PM2.5 (including Davis, Salt Lake, and portions of Weber, Box Elder, and Tooele Counties); Northern
Wasatch Front Ozone (including Salt Lake, Davis, and portions of Weber and Tooele Counties). This
conformity determination was made after interagency consultation, including concurrence from EPA
Region 8. This letter constitutes the joint FHWA and FTA conformity determination for the subject plan.
We appreciate the comprehensive and collaborative efforts of WFRC and UDOT and look forward to our
continued partnership. If you have any questions, please contact Peter Hadley, FTA, at (303) 362-2393, or
Jennifer Elsken, FHWA, at (801) 955-3528.
Sincerely,

Ivan Marrero, P.E.
Division Administrator
ecc:

Andrew Gruber, Jory Johner, Kip Billings - WFRC
Ben Huot, Jay Aguilar - UDOT
Autumn Hu, Alex Beim - UTA
Bryce Bird, Rick McKeague - UDAQ
Greg Lohrke - EPA Region 8
Cindy Terwilliger, Peter Hadley, Robyn Kullas - FTA Region 8
Brigitte Mandel, Jennifer Elsken - FHWA Utah Division

TABLE OF
CONTENTS
1

Technical Report Abstract

2

Executive Summary

22

Establish Goals

62

Enhancement in the
Preferred Scenario

72

Assess Fiscal
Considerations

91

28

Phase Projects

34

Present Impacts and
Benefits

Public Involvement Process

Explore External Forces &
Policies

45

Future Demographic &
Employment Projections

116

144

Implement the 2023-2050
RTP

149

49

Appendices

51

Glossary of terms

Our Preferred Scenario

Optimization in the
Preferred Scenario

150
153

Endnotes

TECHNICAL
REPORT
ABSTRACT
Title:

Wasatch Front Regional Transportation Plan: 2023-2050

Author:

Wasatch Front Regional Council

Adoption Date:

May 25, 2023

Sources of Copies:

Wasatch Front Regional Council
41 North Rio Grande Street, Suite 103
Salt Lake City, Utah, 84101

WFRC Website:

wfrc.org

Abstract:

The Wasatch Front Regional Transportation Plan:
2023-2050 (2023-2050 RTP) is the Salt Lake CityWest Valley City and Ogden-Layton Urbanized Areas’
fiscally constrained plan for roadway, transit, active
transportation, and other facility improvements to
meet projected travel demand over the next 28 years.
Developed in accordance with federal guidelines, the
2023-2050 RTP includes roadway, transit, and active
transportation facilities identified by region-wide
planners, engineers, elected and appointed officials,
various planning partner state agencies and committees,
stakeholder groups, special interest groups, and the
general public that would best serve the needs of the
Wasatch Front Region and its two Urbanized Areas.
The planning process and the steps used to develop
the 2023-2050 RTP are presented in this technical
report, along with an analysis and evaluation of external
forces and forward-thinking transportation policies
that contributed to the final recommendations. Social,
economic, and environmental impacts of the 2023-2050
RTP recommendations were examined, analyzed, and
documented. The 2023-2050 RTP also documents the
process used to select and phase needed transportation
projects. The fiscal aspects of the 2023-2050 RTP include
projected revenues over the next 28-year period to cover
the estimated costs of recommended priority roadway,
transit, and active transportation improvements.

Supporting
Documents:

Air Quality Memorandum Report Number 41

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 1 | Technical Report Abstract

EXECUTIVE
SUMMARY
The Wasatch Front Regional Transportation Plan: 2023-2050 (2023-2050
RTP) is where our Region’s future transportation system is born. The 20232050 RTP sets forth the 28-year strategy for regional-scale transportation
investments for all modes of transportation. The 2023-2050 RTP addresses:
»
»
»
»
»

Desired local and regional growth and infrastructure;
Maintenance of the existing transportation system;
Regional road system;
High-capacity transit opportunities; and
Active transportation networks.

Updated every four years, the RTP also lives within an anticipated budget.
Against these constraints, particular transportation projects are prioritized,
so we build the most important projects first. The 2023-2050 RTP planning
process is coordinated with statewide transportation partners to develop
common goals, planning time horizons, performance measures, and financial
assumptions, which collectively form Utah’s Unified Transportation Plan
(Unified Plan).
The Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) developed the 2023-2050 RTP
with residents, local governments, stakeholders, and partner agencies. The
2023-2050 RTP is informed by technical modeling and forecasting to help us
understand how it might achieve regional quality of life goals. This includes
ensuring that as we invest in transportation and that we meet important air
quality standards. Map 1 shows the planning boundary for WFRC.
A key aspect of the 2023-2050 RTP is that it was developed as part of a
vision to improve the quality of life along the Wasatch Front known as the
Wasatch Choice Vision. The 2023-2050 RTP is the transportation planning
component of the Wasatch Choice Vision. The 2023-2050 RTP details planned
transportation investments, the process used to collaboratively arrive at
those investments, the implications for our Region, and mechanisms to
implement the 2023-2050 RTP.

Wasatch Choice Vision: Our Shared Blueprint
The Wasatch Choice Vision is the shared planning framework for all the
communities in the WFRC Region that addresses transportation
investments, development patterns, and economic opportunities. The
Wasatch Choice Vision strategies and goals show how advancing
the Wasatch Choice Vision can enhance quality of life even

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 2 | Executive Summary

Map 1. WFRC Planning Area

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 3 | Executive Summary

as we grow. The Wasatch Choice Vision envisions
transportation investments and interrelated land and
economic development decisions that achieve desired
local and regional outcomes. The Wasatch Choice
Vision also provides recommendations and resources
to help stakeholders achieve those outcomes. The
2023-2050 RTP is the transportation component of the
Wasatch Choice Vision.
The Wasatch Choice Vision is built upon four key
strategies:
1

2
3
4

Provide transportation choices: help us have
real options in how we choose to get around
and increase the number of easily reached
destinations.
Support housing options: support housing
types and locations that we can both afford
and work best for our lives.
Preserve open space: preserve sufficient and
easily accessible open lands that provide us
with recreational opportunities.
Link economic development with
transportation and housing decisions: create
a synergy between these three key building
blocks.

These strategies are used to achieve the ten regional
goals adopted by WFRC, as listed in no particular order:
»
»
»
»
»
»
»
»
»
»

Livable and healthy communities;
Access to economic and educational
opportunities;
Manageable and reliable traffic conditions;
Quality transportation choices;
Safe, user-friendly streets;
Clean air;
Housing choices and affordable living
expenses;
Fiscally responsible communities and
infrastructure;
Sustainable environment, including water,
agricultural, and other natural resources; and
Ample parks, open spaces, and recreational
opportunities.

In light of these strategies and goals, the 2023-2050
RTP is considered within a broad perspective of how
transportation infrastructure can work with both land
and economic development decisions to maximize
overall quality of life. Key quality of life issues, such as
mobility, affordability, and air quality, are considered
through the lens of not just transportation decisions,
but also by how growth patterns should unfold.
For example, questions of where and what type of

homes and jobs are developed will in turn affect
how far people choose to travel, and the modes of
transportation they use - driving alone, carpooling,
ride hailing or sharing, taking the bus or train, biking,
walking, or a combination thereof. In turn, these
decisions impact air pollution emissions.
The Wasatch Choice Vision has been collaboratively
developed by cities, counties, community
organizations, transportation partners, businesses,
the public, and many others. These groups
participated in a process that explored future
scenarios that articulated the trade-offs associated
with different approaches to transportation and land
use investments. These trade-offs were evaluated in
each part of the Region, with stakeholders actively
engaged in the process to select the appropriate path
forward, which culminated in the Wasatch Choice
Vision. The 2023-2050 RTP’s planned investments
and recommended policies seek to aid our Region to
achieve the shared blueprint for growth.

The Wasatch Front’s Challenges
and Opportunities
Utah continues to experience rapid growth. This
amplifies the weight of the decisions we make
now and over the next few decades. The following
subsections describe a few of the key growthrelated issues confronting our Region that affect
the development of the 2023-2050 RTP and which
the 2023-2050 RTP seeks to positively impact. All of
these issues are affected by growth patterns and how
people and goods are transported.

Population and Employment
Increase
Utah has one of the fastest growing populations of
any state - the state’s population is an estimated
3.4 million now and, by 2050, it is expected to grow
to roughly five million. From 2010 to 2020, the
population of Utah increased at an annual rate of
1.7 percent, while the number of jobs in the state
increased far more quickly, at an annual rate of 2.6
percent over the same ten-year period. Figure 1 and
Maps 2 and 3 show how and where our population
and employment growth is anticipated to occur.
Utah’s growth will largely happen in the greater
Wasatch Front, where about 80 percent of our
state’s population is currently concentrated. Salt
Lake County will continue to be the largest county

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 4 | Executive Summary

in the state based on population. Geographically,
our area is composed of valleys that are constrained
by mountains and lakes, which heightens the
challenges associated with growth. How should our
transportation and land use systems work together to
accommodate growth?

Mobility
Between now and 2050, the population in the WFRC
planning area is expected to increase 32 percent,
from approximately 1.9 million to approximately 2.5
million. This additional population, as well as our
current population and visitors, will need to travel
to jobs, education, recreation, visit friends and
family, and other daily activities. It is the goal of the
Wasatch Choice Vision for this travel to be reliable,
manageable, accessible to destinations, multi-modal,
and safe. This projection suggests the need to build
more road capacity in order to lessen delays; however,
investments on roadways alone will not be sufficient.
Optimizing our existing system through travel demand
management and improved transportation choices
can also lessen travel delays. New transportation
demands grow as a result of the provision of road
capacity. Put another way, many will think: “less

congestion means I can drive greater distances now.”
This makes efforts to reduce commuting times a
vexing challenge.
Transportation demand can also be serviced by
our transit system. Figure 2 shows the Utah Transit
Authority’s (UTA) existing ridership by mode, which
demonstrates that the multi-modal transit system
supports approximately 152,000 rides on the average
weekday, with approximately half being transported
by rail and half by bus. It is imperative that we
continue investing in our multi-modal transportation
system and, as such, the 2023-2050 RTP explores a
variety of modes of travel and ways to reduce growth
of travel demands on roadways.
WFRC also explored and researched how changing
technologies and external factors such as a pandemic
would shape and change travel behavior in the Region.
Figure 3 shows total system-wide average weekday
boardings for years 2017 through 2022. The sharp dip in
2020 is from the COVID-19 pandemic. Following 2020,
ridership has begun to steadily increase as people
return to work, school, and other in-person obligations.
The spread of connected and autonomous vehicles
and the use of transportation network companies,
like Uber and Lyft, have the potential to dramatically

Figure 1. Population Growth in the WFRC Planning Area, Years 2023-2050
3,000,000

2,500,000

2,000,000

1,500,000

2023

2030

2040

2050

Population

Source: Statewide Travel Demand Model and Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 5 | Executive Summary

Map 2. Residential Population Change, Years 2023-2050

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 6 | Executive Summary

Map 3. Employment Population Change, Years 2023-2050

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 7 | Executive Summary

Figure 2. Transit Ridership by Mode
Paratransit: 1,000
Vanpool: 4,000
FrontRunner: 19,000

affect transportation and urban form decisions. While
residents are utilizing these transportation options
today, it is difficult to predict how new technologies
will shift and shape travel behavior and land use
patterns. Transportation agencies in Utah worked
together to research the effects of these technologies
and to begin to implement them. More about this
work can be found in Chapter 3: Explore External
Forces and Policies.
How can our Region provide coordinated
transportation choices and maximize the cost
effectiveness of the investments we make?

Fixed Route Bus:
73,000

Trax (including
streetcar):
55,000

Affordability

Total Average Weekday Ridership: 152,000
2019 Total Ridership: 44.6 million

Source: UTA Ridership Portal, National Transit Database

Home prices have been increasing substantially faster
than growth in incomes1. By the end of 2020, the
median home price in Utah had reached $380,000,
pricing out 48.5 percent of Utah households. As
prices accelerated in 2021, now more than half of
Utahn households can now no longer afford a medianpriced home. For renters, the path to ownership has

Figure 3. Systemwide Average Weekday Boardings, 2017-2022
200,000

150,000

100,000

50,000

0

JAN

FEB
2017

MAR

APR
2018

MAY

JUN
2019

JUL

AUG
2020

SEP

OCT

NOV

2021

DEC

2022

Source: Utah Transit Authority

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 8 | Executive Summary

Figure 4. Air Pollutants by Source, Salt
Lake PM2.5 Area (2026)

Area/Non-Road:
56%

On-Road Mobile:
22%

Large Industry:
22%

Includes: PM2.5, NOx, VOC, NH3, and SO2
Source: Utah Department of Environmental Quality

narrowed even further. In 2021, approximately 73
percent of renter households were priced out of the
median home price.
While there are many factors that affect housing
affordability, the availability of lower cost housing
types like small lot single family homes, townhouses,
apartments, and condominiums can aid in meeting our
housing affordability needs. How might the Wasatch
Choice Vision affect the availability of housing choices
that are in alignment with prevailing incomes?
Additionally, when we expand the traditional measure
of housing affordability to include transportationrelated expenses, we get a more complete picture of
how much of the average household’s budget is left to
cover other basic necessities. On average, households
along the Wasatch Front spend 24 percent of
their income, or over $18,000, on transportation.
Transportation expenses are largely a function of
housing and employment locations and availability of
transportation choices in the areas in which people
live and work. How might the 2023-2050 RTP help
improve housing and transportation affordability?

Air Quality
Air quality in Utah affects health, business recruitment
and retention, and overall quality of life.
Utah is making progress in efforts to improve air
quality. A recent report2 by the Utah Department of
Environmental Quality (DEQ) states that: “Air quality
along the Wasatch Front during winter months shows
a clear trend of continued improvement over the
past two decades despite a period of unprecedented
growth in population and economic activity in the
state. All nonattainment areas have now met the 2006
federal standard for fine particulate matter (PM2.5).” In
addition, four of Utah’s five gasoline refineries are now
producing Tier 3 fuels. But there clearly is a long way
to go. In research conducted by the Utah Foundation,
air quality was rated a top three issue - along with
“traffic” and “affordability of housing” - in response
to “what could most improve your area as a place to
live?” Surveys conducted for the Point of the Mountain
Commission by Envision Utah show that 69 percent
of surveyed employees who work in or around Silicon
Slopes stated that air quality was the top reason they
might choose to leave Utah. Figure 4 shows estimated
air pollutants for 20263 by source and indicates that
transportation accounts for 22 percent of our air
pollutants. How should the 2023-2050 RTP address
transportation-related air emissions which contribute
approximately to one fourth of overall emissions?

Organization of the 2023-2050
RTP Document
The process to develop the 2023-2050 RTP followed
four major stages, integrated with the development
of the Wasatch Choice Vision. After the executive
summary, the 2023-2050 RTP document begins with
the story of these stages.
First, Explore.
Transportation is changing. External forces and
forward-thinking transportation policies were explored
with stakeholders. Scenarios were used to understand
the potential implications of different decisions we
might start making today and how this may shape the
future of our Region.
Second, Choose.
Our Region chose a desired future or vision. The 20232050 RTP aims to improve our Region’s transportation
system and quality of life through a two-pronged
approach - optimization and enhancement. The

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 9 | Executive Summary

Wasatch Choice Vision was refined to include
policies to optimize our transportation system, while
enhancement focuses on new infrastructure.
Third, Prioritize.
The Wasatch Choice Vision was refined and decisions
were made about the timing and prioritization of both
infrastructure improvements and land use changes.
This section details the recommendations of the
2023-2050 RTP.
Lastly, Implement.
An implementation section outlines mechanisms to
turn the 2023-2050 RTP into reality.
Afterward, appendices provide more detail on various
steps and analyses.

Utah’s Unified Transportation Plan
WFRC 2023-2050 RTP comes together with each
unique regional long-range plan in the state to form
the Unified Plan.
The Unified Plan is a collaborative effort between
transportation agencies across the state of
Utah including the Cache Metropolitan Planning
Organization (Cache MPO), the Dixie Metropolitan
Planning Organization (Dixie MPO), the Mountainland
Association of Governments (MAG), the Utah
Department of Transportation (UDOT), UTA, and
WFRC. The Unified Plan partners have developed a
national model for best practices in working together
to develop common goals, planning time horizons,
performance measures, and financial assumptions
so that their long-range plans are consistent across
the state while meeting local needs. Then UDOT,
UTA, and the MPOs all agree on which projects and
needs to include in the Unified Plan, as well as timing,
funding, and how to measure their effectiveness in
meeting shared objectives. With immense growth
projected, particularly in the urbanized areas of
Utah, proactive planning amongst transportation
agencies is essential, and helps to determine where
to prioritize transportation investments that will
foster a conducive environment for growth, promote
economic vitality, and support local community
visions across the state.

Regional Goals
The 2023-2050 RTP seeks to advance ten regional
quality of life goals.

In October 2016, WFRC adopted the Wasatch
Choice Vision goals. This milestone represented the
culmination of a year and a half of work to gather
input from cities, counties, transportation partners,
businesses, and community organizations regarding
local and regional priorities for the Vision.
WFRC established these goals to set the direction for
our shared regional Vision, and to inform how future
transportation investments will be evaluated, selected,
prioritized, and coordinated with local community
priorities regarding growth, land use, and the pursuit of
housing and economic development opportunities.
These goals were utilized in the development of
the 2023-2050 RTP in each step: Explore, Choose,
Prioritize, and Implement. The ten goals are:
»
»
»
»
»
»
»
»
»
»

Livable and healthy communities;
Access to economic and educational
opportunities;
Manageable and reliable traffic conditions;
Quality transportation choices;
Safe, user friendly streets;
Clean air;
Housing choices and affordable living expenses;
Fiscally responsible communities and
infrastructure;
Sustainable environment; and
Ample parks, open spaces, and recreational
opportunities.

The RTP aims to achieve the ten goals for the Region
as a whole, and for all of the communities within the
region. WFRC has developed the Equity Focus Areas
(EFA) framework to promote inclusive engagement
in transportation planning processes and equitable
access to affordable and reliable transportation
options. Accessibility means people are able to
easily, efficiently, and safely reach key destinations
including jobs, schools, healthcare, childcare, parks,
places of worship, and grocery stores. WFRC defines
EFA communities as Census tracts with greater
than 25 percent low-income and/or greater than
40 percent minority populations. Providing access
to opportunities, particularly for EFA communities,
can have significant impacts on overall community
livability, and can increase individual and family
upward economic mobility.
The ten regional goals are aligned with the goals of
the Unified Plan, as agreed to by the transportation
planning agencies within the state of Utah:
»
»
»

Safety;
Economic vitality;
State of good repair;

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 10 | Executive Summary

»
»

Air quality and the environment; and
Mobility.

In addition, the 2023-2050 RTP seeks to advance
national planning factors, part of the federal Moving
Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21).
The factors are:
»
»
»
»
»

»
»
»
»

»

Support the economic vitality of the
metropolitan area, especially by enabling global
competitiveness, productivity, and efficiency;
Increase the safety of the transportation system
for motorized and non-motorized users;
Increase security of the transportation system
for motorized and non-motorized users;
Increase the accessibility and mobility of
people and freight;
Protect and enhance the environment,
promote energy conservation, improve the
quality of life, and promote consistency
between transportation improvements and
state and local planned growth and economic
development patterns;
Enhance the integration and connectivity
of the transportation system, across and
between modes, for people and freight;
Promote efficient system management and
operations;
Emphasize the preservation of the existing
transportation system;
Improve the resiliency and reliability of
the transportation system and reduce or
mitigate stormwater impacts of surface
transportation; and
Enhance travel and tourism.

Regional Transportation Plans should also integrate
the priorities, goals, countermeasures, strategies, or
projects from the:
»
»
»
»
»
»
»
»

Strategic Highway Safety Plan (SHSP)
Highway Safety Improvement Program (HSIP)
Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan
(PTASP)
Transportation Asset Management Plan (TAMP)
Transit Transportation Asset Management
Plan (TTAMP)
State Freight Plan (SFP)
Congestion Management Plan(CMP)
Congestion Management Air Quality
Performance Plan (CMAQPP)

The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) and
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Offices of
Planning jointly issued updated Planning Emphasis
Areas (PEAs) in December 2021. These PEAs include:

»
»
»
»
»
»
»
»

Tackling the Climate Crisis - Transition to a
Clean Energy, Resilient Future;
Equity and Justice40 in Transportation Planning;
Complete Streets;
Public Involvement;
Strategic Highway Network (STRAHNET)/US
Department of Defense (DOD) Coordination;
Federal Land Management Agency (FLMA)
Coordination;
Planning and Environment Linkages (PEL); and
Data in Transportation Planning.

The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA)
and its successor legislations, MAP-21 and the Fixing
America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, also
provided a performance management framework for
state departments of transportation, transit agencies,
and MPOs to assess and monitor the performance of
the transportation system. Outlined are the national
performance goals for the Federal-aid highway
program and transit agencies. The national goals are:
»
»

»
»
»

»

Safety: to achieve a significant reduction in
fatalities, serious injuries, and safety events
on all public roads and transit;
Infrastructure condition/State of Good
Repair: to maintain the highway infrastructure
asset system and transit rolling stock,
facilities, infrastructure, and equipment in a
state of good repair;
Congestion reduction: to achieve a significant
reduction in congestion on the National
Highway System;
System reliability: to improve the efficiency of
the surface transportation system;
Freight movement and economic vitality:
to improve the national freight network,
strengthen the ability of rural communities
to access national and international trade
markets, and support regional economic
development; and
Environmental sustainability: to enhance
the performance of the transportation
system while protecting and enhancing the
natural environment.

The 2023-2050 RTP was developed with a focus on
meeting national goals and agency targets. More detail
on how the 2023-2050 RTP considers planning factors
and emphasis areas, integrates related plans, and
meets federal performance standards can be found in
the Chapter 10: Present Impacts and Benefits.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 11 | Executive Summary

Key Recommendations
The 2023-2050 RTP includes improvements that
optimize and enhance the transportation system.
This includes both policies that guide the way WFRC
addresses various issues and regional transportation
infrastructure. Policies include principles that guide the
2023-2050 RTP, such as a desire to mitigate growth in
travel demand. Policies also address new considerations
like emerging transportation technologies such as
connected and autonomous vehicles (CAV) and micromobility devices. Policies also suggest implementing
actions by other entities that would significantly affect
mobility, accessibility, and quality of life along the
Wasatch Front. Regional infrastructure improvements
include enhancements such as building additional
roads, transit lines, and trails. Overall, the 20232050 RTP seeks to help improve the resiliency of the
Region in the face of economic, technological, and
environmental uncertainties.

Policies for System Optimization
System improvements focus on the capacity and
operations of regional transportation infrastructure.
There are many other ways that can help connect us
to the places we need to go in addition to the form
and function of regional facilities. Policies can help us
optimize our complementary system of transportation
and land use, address new considerations like
emerging transportation technologies, and suggest
implementing actions with other entities that would
significantly affect mobility, accessibility, and quality
of life in the Wasatch Front (again, that complement
efforts to implement regional transportation
infrastructure changes).
This section outlines key considerations in the
exploration of policies - issues or outcomes that policy
concepts should build upon or advance. The section
also includes a list of specific policy concepts that are
further articulated in Chapter 6: Optimization in the
Preferred Scenario.

Key Considerations for the Exploration
of Policies
Each policy concept being explored will seek to
consider or advance the following key considerations.
01 Ensure state of good repair
Proper repair and regular maintenance of
transportation facilities for all modes should be a high
priority for any authority responsible for such facilities.

Potholes and uneven pavement are daily reminders of
the importance of the maintenance and preservation
of our transportation system. UDOT and local
communities invest heavily in the preservation of
the roadway system. Good roads cost less. UDOT
includes and prioritizes pavement preservation and
structures maintenance projects in its Statewide
Transportation Solutions Plan.
UTA recognizes the need to maintain and operate all
elements of the transit system in a safe and efficient
manner.
For active transportation, well-kept sidewalks, shareduse paths, bike lanes, among other facilities, provide
reliability, comfort, and safety to users.
Policy concepts should help advance the key
consideration of ensuring a state of good repair.
02 Mitigate growth of travel demand
WFRC seeks to reduce the need for transportation
capacity even as we plan to enhance mobility.
Transportation infrastructure is generally expensive.
Mitigating growth of travel demand can mean
reduced travel distances or increased use of spaceefficient modes of travel like carpooling and public
transportation. Mitigating growth of travel demand
should never come at the expense of the economy, i.e.,
we should never force people to avoid going to their
desired destinations. Effective strategies to mitigate
growth or travel demand can do just the opposite:
enable the economy to function more effectively by
enabling trips to be accomplished more easily. For
example, if we work to increase the number of potential
workers that can reach firms by transit in a reasonable
commute, it would mean better business production
and would lower the demand for roadway capacity.
Policy concepts should mitigate growth in travel
demand in ways that maintain or improve the health
of the economy.
03 Explore use of pricing to improve mobility
WFRC explores the use of pricing strategies as
a way to improve the transportation system and
economic outcomes.
Given the physical constraints of existing office
buildings and homes, our geographic location
between the mountains and lakes, and the costs
required to build more infrastructure, WFRC works to
maximize the utility of existing infrastructure while
keeping people, goods, and services moving. One way
to do this is to explore the use of pricing strategies.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 12 | Executive Summary

The purpose of pricing is not to generate revenue, but
to improve transportation outcomes. Revenue can be
sent back to affected communities.
Perhaps the most important consideration in travel
is time - “how long will it take me to get there?”
Congestion increases travel time and, to an extent,
harms the economy. Businesses and residents must
also plan for a “bad traffic day” or face the disruption
of missed appointments. It therefore makes sense to
see if we can save the traveling public enough time
through pricing modifications that the net effect
is positive. Time savings of a toll can more than
compensate for the direct financial expenditure of
the toll. Experience with pricing around the world
demonstrates that those positive economic outcomes
are predictably achievable. This is especially important
to consider given that it is unrealistic to widen
roadways in perpetuity.
Policy concepts should explore the potential that
pricing strategies have to help our economy function
better, improve mobility, and further enhance access
to opportunities.
04 Improve fit between transportation and land use
WFRC supports having the design and function of
future transportation facilities be coordinated with the
desired design and function of adjacent land use.
This helps ensure that streets balance the needs
of businesses and neighborhoods in addition to
facilitating movement of people. If there is a conflict
between a current or proposed transportation
decision and a current or proposed land use planning
decision, the two decisions should ideally be resolved
together to minimize conflict.
Policy concepts should seek to improve the fit
between transportation and desired nearby land use.
05 Consider long-term needs of all modes of travel
when implementing transportation projects
WFRC supports having the design and function of
a transportation facility, such as a street, meet the
needs of individual modal elements, as outlined in the
2023-2050 RTP.
This includes the needs of people driving,
transporting freight, taking transit, bicycling, and
walking, as is appropriate. When practical, the timing
of construction should consider ways to reduce the
aggregate costs of all anticipated improvements of
each applicable transportation mode.

06 Prepare for resiliency in the face of uncertainty
WFRC seeks to have a transportation plan that helps
the Region be resilient in the face of an uncertain
future. WFRC will highlight key vulnerabilities to our
member communities and Region.
The Wasatch Front will likely face a variety of shocks
to the economy and environment over the 2023-2050
RTP horizon. Any region that is built to only thrive
under average or optimal conditions is vulnerable to
unusual or significantly negative conditions. We have
to develop a transportation system that thrives in a
variety of conditions.
Resiliency efforts help the Region protect assets and
people from disasters like a changing climate, drought,
earthquakes, floods, landslides, fires, and viral
pandemics as well as prepare for economic recession.
Policy concepts should advance this consideration.
07 Link planning with project development
WFRC will continue to explore with UDOT and UTA
ways to better connect the 2023-2050 RTP and future
RTPs to project development and environmental
review processes for transportation projects.
Improving these linkages would mean additional
process requirements and documentation for WFRC.
The benefits would be reduced project delivery
times and potentially significant cost savings for
implementing parties.
Specific policy concepts should be implemented in
ways that help link planning with project development.
08 Maximize the value of emerging technologies
WFRC, along with its transportation partners,
develops plans and more detailed policies to maximize
the value of emerging technologies.
A number of significant technological shifts are
underway or anticipated that will change the way
we travel, where we travel, and what and how goods
are shipped. Some of these technological shifts will
also affect where people choose to live and work.
WFRC has worked to address how we can together
maximize the benefits that may accrue from emerging
technologies. Many believe that the changes we will
see in the coming decades - take CAV, for example
- will be the biggest seen since the invention of the
automobile. Think back about the introduction of the
automobile: life changed in a myriad number of ways,
some positive and some negative. Cities around the
world addressed automobile proliferation in different

Policy concepts should advance this consideration.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 13 | Executive Summary

ways which led to dramatically different outcomes to
quality of life. Similarly, we must plan now to maximize
the net impact of emerging technologies.
Policy concepts should maximize the value of
emerging technologies.

Forward-Thinking Transportation
Policy Areas
Policy areas that consider or address the above key
considerations include the following: congestion
pricing, curbside management, local street design
modifications, managed lanes, parking modernization,
road usage charge (RUC), street connectivity, transit
priority, and zero-fare transit. These nine policy areas
are in various stages of implementation. How these
were arrived at is articulated in Chapter 3: Explore
External Forces and Transportation Policies. A status
report and next steps for these policies is articulated
in Chapter 6: Optimization in the Preferred Scenario.

System Infrastructure
Enhancements
Roadway System Improvements
Programmed roadway improvements in the 20232050 RTP include a balance of freeway, highway,
arterial, and collector road projects. Freeway and
highway projects include widening existing freeways;
operational management and ramp metering;
new freeways like the West Davis Corridor; and
conversions from an arterial to freeway such as
the Bangerter Highway. These large-scale projects
will help accommodate the growing travel demand
throughout the Region.
The 2023-2050 RTP includes capacity and operational
improvements to existing surface roads, such as
realigning Midland Drive in Weber County, improving
operations on 11400 South and 13400 South in
Salt Lake County, and preserving mobility on eastwest connectors between I-15 in Davis County. The
2023-2050 RTP also identifies 25 grade-separated
crossings over railroads and interstates to improve
mobility and reduce barriers. Improving connectivity
is a key component of the 2023-2050 RTP and
includes 150 new construction projects that either
complete existing gaps or provide greater localized
connectivity, or extend the roadway network. There
are 458 roadway projects in the 2023-2050 RTP at an

estimated total cost of $23.6 billion, in 2023 dollars.
The 2023-2050 RTP identifies that these projects will
be built within one of the three fiscal phases within
the 2023-2050 RTP (Phase 1: 2023-2032, Phase 2:
2033-2042, Phase 3: 2043-2050). Figure 5 shows miles
of planned roadway facilities in the 2023-2050 RTP by
phase and project type. While existing and assumed
new funding sources are projected to be available
for the majority of the proposed prioritized projects,
there is estimated $5.2 billion, in 2023 dollars, of
unfunded needs.

Transit System Improvements
The 2023-2050 RTP plans transit service that
fits within the context and scale of individual
municipalities, centers, and corridors, while enhancing
the regional transportation network through providing
accessible and reliable public transportation. As
such, there are a variety of planned transit projects
throughout the Wasatch Front through the year 2050,
including a gridded network of frequent and direct
east-west and north-south Core Bus routes, a number
of high-capacity transit projects serving urban centers
such as the bus rapid transit (BRT) projects on State
Street in Salt Lake County and to the rapidly growing
Point of the Mountain area, improvements to regional
commuter rail (FrontRunner), and special service bus
routes serving key recreational opportunities in Big
and Little Cottonwood Canyons.
The 86 prioritized transit projects in the 2023-2050
RTP are estimated to cost $7.0 billion, in 2023 dollars,
to construct, operate, and maintain with projected
available revenues. The 2023-2050 RTP identifies that
these projects will be built within one of the three fiscal
phases within the 2023-2050 RTP (Phase 1: 20232032, Phase 2: 2033-2042, Phase 3: 2043-2050). It is
estimated that there will not be available revenues to
construct an additional five needed transit projects
costing approximately $1.1 billion to construct by
the year 2050. These five projects are referred to as
“unfunded” within the 2023-2050 RTP. Figure 6 shows
the miles of planned transit projects by phase and type
included in the 2023-2050 RTP.
UTA is developing a Long Range Transit Plan (LRTP)
that will complement WFRC’s RTP. The LRTP will
have both a regional and local focus while breaking
down project costs, operations and maintenance, and
support. Both the RTP and the LRTP have a four-year
planning cycle, are community and data driven, and
look approximately 30 years into the future. UTA and
WFRC will collaborate on the LRTP just as they do on
the RTP.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 14 | Executive Summary

Figure 5. 2023-2050 RTP Miles of Planned Roadway Projects by Type
500

400

Miles

300

200

100

0

PHASE 1:
2023-2032

PHASE 2:
2033-2042

Operational

Active Transportation Improvements
In all, 673 active transportation line projects,
making up over 1,200 miles of linear regional bicycle
infrastructure, are planned through 2050 at a cost of
about $1.0 billion, in 2023 dollars. New, safe, shared
use paths, such as the Eagle Mountain Trail in Box
Elder County, Three-Gate Trail in Weber County,
Davis-Weber Canal Trail in Davis County, and Utah
Distribution Canal Trail in Salt Lake County, account
for 450 miles of the planned network. Such highcomfort facilities are critical to giving people travel
options that do not involve a personal vehicle,
increasing mobility and access to opportunity, and
deriving the physical and mental health benefits
associated with active transportation. Additionally,
the 104 point and intersection projects identified
(projects that enable safer bicycle and pedestrian
crossings over barriers such as high-speed roadways
and unsafe intersections) promote accessibility and
user safety. These projects are estimated to cost
approximately $340 million, in 2023 dollars. Please
note that sidewalk infrastructure projects and costs
are not identified in the 2023-2050 RTP. In all, there
are $1.3 billion in active transportation needs.

PHASE 3:
2043-2050

UNFUNDED:
BEYOND 2050

New Construction

ALL PHASES
Widening

The 2023-2050 RTP phases active transportation
projects in ten year increments according to the same
timeline as transit and roadway projects (Phase 1:
2023-2032, Phase 2: 2033-2042, Phase 3: 2043-2050).
For the first time, active transportation projects have
not only been identified by need within the three
phases, but also by fiscal constraint according to
projected revenues. Figure 7 shows the number of
miles of planned regional bicycle network by phase
and type in the 2023-2050 RTP.
Many studies have made it clear that in order to
increase the number of people biking, networks need
to provide high comfort facilities that provide real
and perceived safety from vehicular traffic. While
all facilities identified in the 2023-2050 RTP have
their place, facilities such as shared use paths and
protected bike lanes enable people of all ages and
abilities to participate in active travel in a safe manner.
Facility types, such as bike lane, shared lane, overhead
crossing, etc., are identified project-by-project on
the online interactive map. However, the planned
active transportation solution identified in the 20232050 RTP may evolve over time. During project

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 15 | Executive Summary

Figure 6. 2023-2050 RTP Miles of Planned Transit Projects by Type
350
300

Miles

250
200
150
100
50
0

PHASE 1:
2023-2032

PHASE 2:
2033-2042

Core Route

PHASE 3:
2043-2050

Bus Rapid Transit
Commuter Rail

UNFUNDED:
BEYOND 2050

ALL PHASES

Street Car

Corridor Preservation

Light Rail
Gondola

Figure 7. 2023-2050 RTP Miles of Planned Active Transportation Projects by Type
500

Miles

400

300

200

100

0

PHASE 1:
2023-2032

PHASE 2:
2033-2042

PHASE 3:
2043-2050

UNFUNDED:
BEYOND 2050

ALL PHASES

Neighborhood Byway

Bike Lane

Buffered Bike Lane

Protected Bike Lane

Shared Use Path/Sidepath

Other

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 16 | Executive Summary

development, context sensitive solutions will be
considered to build out the preferred solution. Further
jurisdiction coordination, deployment of interim
designs, or phased implementation may be necessary
until complete redesign or reconstruction of the
roadway and active transportation facility occurs, and/
or additional right-of-way (ROW) can be acquired.

Transportation Modeling and
Analysis Tools
WFRC employs sophisticated transportation and
land use modeling tools to provide decision-makers,
agency staff, and the public reliable forecasts from
which to analyze future scenarios and to make the
best plans for our Region. As transportation and land
use are mutually dependent, models for both of these
systems work together to optimally support the
development, selection, and prioritization of future
transportation projects. Similarly, integrated modeling
tools are critical for exploring local land use policies
such as those that promote urban and local centers,
and the impact of our urban systems on air quality.
Developing and maintaining travel and land use models
is a best practice for regional planning. But it also fulfills
requirements and expectations needed to continue
to receive our Region’s share of federal transportation
funding. Accordingly, WFRC’s modeling processes
comply with federal law (FAST Act, MAP-21, IIJA, and
Clean Air Act) as well as guidance provided by the US
Department of Transportation (USDOT), FHWA, FTA,
and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).

the model’s base year, 2019. Additional processes are
used to validate the reasonableness of future year
travel projections.

Real Estate Market Model
The current shared Wasatch Front Real Estate Market
Model (REMM) version is 2.0. The Wasatch Front
REMM relies on the best available resources to project
future development activity using the UrbanSim
modeling platform. Critical inputs to REMM’s
consideration of available land and profitability of new
and redevelopment activity include:
»
»
»
»
»
»

»

A region-wide parcel land use and valuation
database;
An inventory of local government general plans;
The results of a multi-year scenario-based
visioning exercise;
A synthesized household population dataset
for the model’s base year (2019) based on
Census data;
Address geocoded employment totals from the
Utah Department of Workforce Services (DWS);
County-level employment and population
control total projections, sourced from the
University of Utah’s Kem C. Gardner Policy
Institute; and
Public and private sector expert advisors.

REMM produces the small area TAZ-level population,
households, and employment projections that inform
the trip generation in the regional travel model. And
in turn, REMM factors travel accessibility derived
from the travel model into its predictions of land
development activity.

Wasatch Front Travel Demand Model

Output from the Models

Since 2000, WFRC has partnered with our neighboring
MPO, MAG to develop and support a shared, regionwide travel demand model (TDM). Version 9.0 of the
Wasatch Front TDM was used for the 2023-2050
RTP and will be the version released for official use
coinciding with the formal adoption of the 2023-2050
RTP document. The travel model includes the phased,
fiscally-constrained 2023-2050 RTP roadway and
transit projects and the official traffic-analysis-zone
(TAZ)-level population, households, and employment
forecasts for the Region. WFRC and MAG have
calibrated the model’s parameters to local travel
behavior patterns (trip rates, trip lengths, time of day
of trip, mode of travel, etc.) and validated the model’s
results with observed travel conditions (transit
ridership, roadway volumes, and roadway speed) for

The Wasatch Front TDM and the REMM are updated
every four years in sync with the four-year RTP cycle.
These models serve the Salt Lake City-West Valley
City, Ogden-Layton, and Provo-Orem Urbanized
Areas. Together, the regional travel model and
the population, households, and employment
layers derived from REMM provide planning and
operations professionals with a rich set of information
from which to gain insights into future needs,
opportunities, and solutions. Projected measures
produced by the models include:
»
»
»

Future population, household, and
employment distributions;
Travel patterns and mode share;
Future vehicle and transit volumes and

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 17 | Executive Summary

»
»

their relationship to the capacity of existing
facilities and services;
Travel times and comparative accessibility to
workplaces and other key destinations; and
Key inputs to air quality mobile-source
emission forecasts.

Impacts and Benefits
The 2023-2050 RTP was evaluated to determine its
social, economic, and environmental impacts and
how well it would meet the transportation needs
of the Region through the year 2050. The goals
and objectives for the 2023-2050 RTP, as described
earlier, helped form the basis for this evaluation. The
2023-2050 RTP was also analyzed with regard to
its conformity with state air quality plans, potential
mitigation measures to minimize project impacts, and
other factors.

Regional Performance Measures
Performance measures were carefully chosen to give
decision makers the opportunity to compare how well
the 2023-2050 RTP supports their values and goals.
Table 1, organized by regional goal, compares today’s
conditions with two future scenarios: a future if we
build currently funded transportation projects and
then make no additional transportation investment,
and a future in which the Wasatch Choice Vision
is implemented considering future transportation
disruptions and additional transportation projects
found in the 2023-2050 RTP. More detail about
regional performance measures can be found in the
Chapter 10: Present Impacts and Benefits.

Implementation
Regional transportation planning, to be effective, is
a continuous process. Implementation of the 20232050 RTP is a cooperative effort of local, state, and
federal officials. In addition to working with various
agencies and partnerships throughout the Region,
WFRC has established a process to continuously
monitor the progress of transportation performance
and the progress of various transportation
improvement projects.
WFRC also works with other agencies to address
short-range congestion, pavement preservation, and
bridge replacement and rehabilitation needs. Various
corridor and environmental studies for major roadway

and transit projects help to refine and implement the
recommendations of the 2023-2050 RTP.
Overall, implementation of the 2023-2050 RTP
comes through funding and development of the
planned projects, promoting adoption of policies by
implementing agencies, and technical assistance
and training to assist the implementers. Tracking
or monitoring progress in turn helps inform
implementation efforts and future modifications
to the 2023-2050 RTP and the underlying Wasatch
Choice Vision.
Finally, the RTP will be updated every four years
to consider changing development patterns, new
technologies, and evolving goals and vision for the
Wasatch Front Region.

Funding and Project Development
The implementation of the roadway, transit, and
active transportation projects of the 2023-2050
RTP will rely on the close cooperation of all regional
partners and local governments, with funding from
federal, state, local, and private sources. Various
funding sources for transportation infrastructure have
been established and include WFRC-administered
Federal Funds like Surface Transportation Program
(STP), Congestion Mitigation Air Quality (CMAQ),
Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP), and
Carbon Reduction Program (CRP); other Federal funds
like grants from FTA and safety and preservation
monies for roadways; and general funds from
the State of Utah and local communities. The
programming and funding of various transportation
projects is the responsibility of the WFRC shortrange planning effort, which develops and utilizes
the Transportation Improvement Program (TIP).
The TIP is a six-year program of funded roadway,
transit, and active transportation projects for the Salt
Lake City-West Valley City and the Ogden-Layton
Urbanized Areas. Along with numerous other projects,
included in the TIP are Phase 1 projects found in
the RTP for which funding has been identified. An
MPO-approved TIP is required by federal legislation
for a region to receive federal highway, transit, and
active transportation funding. Finally, in addition to
preparing the regional transportation plan, WFRC
works continuously with UDOT, UTA, and local
communities on alternatives analysis, environmental
studies, corridor plans, and master plan updates.
These efforts help to develop and refine specific
projects found in the 2023-2050 RTP.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 18 | Executive Summary

Table 1. Regional Performance Measures Summary

METRIC

MEASURE

CURRENT
PATH TO
2050

TODAY

WASATCH
CHOICE
PATH TO
2050

Goal: Access to economic and educational opportunities
Access to
Opportunities

The number of jobs and households that
are accessible within a typical commute

Auto

224,000

242,000

293,000

Transit

14,000

18,000

24,000

16.1

13.6

12.5

Auto:transit access to opportunities ratio
Goal: Manageable and reliable traffic conditions
Freight Delay

Hours of total truck delay per day

94,000

146,000

124,000

Freight Speed

The average truck speed on freight corridors in the
evening commute

41 mph

35 mph

39 mph

Auto Travel
Time

The time per day spent traveling in a
vehicle

1,048,000

1,607,000

1,523,000

0:55

1:06

1:02

16%

16%

33%

Bike

58%

55%

83%

Trips

569,000

869,000

834,000

8.1%

9.0%

8.6%

108,000

212,000

291,000

1.5%

2.2%

3.0%

65.2

55.7

59.8

Region
Avg. Driver

Goal: Quality transportation choices
Transportation
Choices

The percent of people who are nearby
(are within one quarter of a mile) a
frequent bus route, transit stop/station,
or dedicated bike facility

Walk and Bike
Use

The number of trips per day that
residents travel by active transportation

Transit Use

The number of trips per day that
residents travel by transit

Transit

Mode Split
Trips
Mode Split

Goal: Clean Air
Air Quality

The miles of vehicle travel taken in the Region per
household

Promote 2023-2050 RTP Policies

Wasatch Choice Great Streets

The 2023-2050 RTP contains various transportationrelated policies to optimize our transportation
system in addition to enhancements to regional
transportation infrastructure. The 2023-2050
RTP policies guide the way WFRC addresses
various issues, like mitigating growth in travel
demand, addressing new considerations like
emerging transportation technologies, or exploring
implementing actions with other entities. WFRC
will work with transportation partners and local
governments to further the utilization of shared 20232050 RTP policies.

The Wasatch Choice Vision seeks to coordinate
transportation and land use to maintain overall quality
of life. The RTP carries this broad goal to the design
and function of regional transportation projects,
encouraging these projects to work with envisioned
land use, especially the designated Wasatch Choice
Vision Centers. This new effort is called the Wasatch
Choice Great Streets. Wasatch Choice Great Streets
will be incorporated into the RTP upon its completion
in Fall 2023. It will put forward initial guidance for
local governments and UDOT to jointly consider as
RTP projects are designed and constructed within
Wasatch Choice Vision Centers. Wasatch Choice Vision
Centers are focal points for economic development
and welcome a variety of transportation choices. As
such the design and function of regional transportation
facilities should support those two objectives.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 19 | Executive Summary

EXPLORE

Our Regional transportation system has real
impacts on the lives of Utahns.
Here’s one story:

BETH
ANNE
Beth Anne has lived in Herriman for nearly
20 years. The Mountain View Corridor has
been a boon for the area, allowing for easier
travel to and from the Herriman area over
the years. To get from point A to point B,
Beth Anne loves riding her scooter, and
appreciates how much fun it is, spicing up
her commute and putting her in a great
mood. Additionally, she has a purple bike
with a basket that she’ll occasionally use
to reach the grocery store or library. Her
scooter has also played an important role
in her son’s transportation options as well,
as he relied on it to reach the Daybreak
TRAX station in order to commute to the
University of Utah. Beth also uses public
transit, occasionally using the FrontRunner
to visit a friend in Ogden. Being originally
from an East Coast city, walking and
transit have always been intrinsic
parts of Beth Anne’s life.

1

ESTABLISH
GOALS
Wasatch Choice Vision
Because development patterns and transportation improvements affect each
other, local governments and regional transportation agencies need to closely
coordinate planning efforts. The important question is: How can we work
together to produce the outcomes that optimize the long-term quality of life for
communities and the overall metropolitan area? This was the impetus behind the
development of our Region’s shared vision, the Wasatch Choice Vision.
Our quality of life is impacted by growth patterns, how the Region is served
by the transportation system, and the availability of open space. Together,
these factors, along with other related conditions, affect our cost of living,
time spent commuting, the air we breathe, how we enjoy our time with family
and friends, and the neighborliness of the communities in which we live.
The Wasatch Choice Vision considers how growth, transportation, and open
space can be shaped for the next few decades in such a manner as to have
positive impacts on the lives of residents in the greater Wasatch Front area,
where we anticipate growth of well over a million more residents by 2050.

Visioning Process
Wasatch Choice has referred to our shared vision for coordinated growth
and infrastructure since 2007. It is periodically updated and the last major
update kicked off in 2016. In the Spring of 2016, the Wasatch Front Regional
Council (WFRC) met with groups of cities and counties through a series of
Vision Workshops. City and county elected and appointed officials, planners,
engineers, economic development staff, and city managers were all invited to
attend, in order to obtain a holistic, multi-disciplinary view of the issues that
face each unique community. The objective of the workshops was to receive
feedback from local communities about their goals and priorities and to
understand local critical growth areas and needed transportation investments.
Finally, through the lens of identifying solutions that will address the issues
that stakeholders are facing, workshop participants were asked to identify
land use “centers,” or areas within their communities where walkable, higherintensity growth might occur in the future, and to contemplate the scale and
type of development that the community could support in these centers.
Participants also developed a variety of multi-modal transportation ideas
that would serve these various development patterns.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 22 | Chapter 1: Establish Goals

In early 2018, our local communities refined the
draft Vision Map through sub-region meetings
and consultation with local city planners. All told,
the Wasatch Choice Vision has been built through
extensive engagement with local governments,
stakeholders, and the public. In May of 2018, WFRC
endorsed the Wasatch Choice Vision. Following are
the elements of the Wasatch Choice Vision that were
considered for endorsement.

ABCs of the Wasatch Choice Vision
A

Regional goals were adopted by WFRC
in 2016 and are the desired outcomes
to be achieved. The goals inform future
transportation investment decisions, as well
as local community considerations regarding
the use of land and the pursuit of economic
development opportunities.

B

The Wasatch Choice Vision Map is a blueprint for
regional transportation, land use, and open and
public spaces. It considers how these elements
should work together geographically. Overall,
the Wasatch Choice Vision Map represents the
long-term vision of the communities along the
Wasatch Front and Back. Communities have
expressed the desire to implement the Wasatch
Choice Vision within their local plans and
ordinances in conversations with residents and
business owners.

C

The key strategies represent the overarching
themes in the Wasatch Choice Vision and help
achieve the Regional Goals. The key strategies
are as follows:
Provide Transportation Choices
Help us have real options in how we choose to
get around and increase the number of easily
reached destinations.
Support Housing Options
Support housing types and locations that we
can both afford and that work best for our lives.
Preserve Open Space
Preserve sufficient and easily accessible open
lands that provide recreational opportunities.
Link Economic Development with
Transportation and Housing Decisions
Create a synergy between these three key
building blocks. Enable shorter and less
expensive travel to afford us more time and

money. Efficiently utilize infrastructure to save
taxpayer dollars. Provide housing options and
increase housing affordability. Improve the air
we breathe by reducing auto emissions.
The ABCs of the Wasatch Choice Vision are
the foundation for the 2023-2050 RTP, 2023
Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy
(CEDS), and will be considered for local land use and
economic development implementation.

Emphasis on Growth Centers
A key ingredient of the Wasatch Choice Vision is to
encourage robust growth centered in areas such as
central business districts, main streets, and major
employment areas, and to coordinate centered
growth with high-capacity transit, major roadways,
and regional bicycle facilities. Strategic changes in
targeted areas of our Region - places like metropolitan,
urban, city, and neighborhood centers - can yield huge
benefits. These centers can become the focus of a
strong market for accessible jobs and services and
moderately priced and/or downsized housing units.
These centers should grow where they yield large
benefits – in centrally located areas and places with
great multi-modal transportation access. Through
implementation of these strategies, centers can:
»
»
»
»
»
»
»
»
»

Help ensure that all people have a selection of
homes to meet their needs;
Reduce the time, distance, and money it takes
for people to reach many of their destinations;
Enable people to reach more of those
destinations by foot, bike, and transit in
addition to driving;
Help businesses reach more consumers;
Support employees to have a greater selection
of jobs;
Help improve air quality;
Create inclusive, walkable communities;
Reduce growth pressure on the Wasatch Back;
and
Reduce demand for scarce water.

On average, 28 percent of all new residential
development and 65 percent of all multifamily
residential development in the Wasatch Choice
Vision is in the form of mixed-land uses, such as a
neighborhood, city, or urban centers. The Wasatch
Choice Vision also endorses a desire to have a series
of employment centers in each part of the Region;
a desire to have a focal point, or “heart” for each
community; and/or an interest in a walkable form of
development that mixes jobs, shopping, and housing.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 23 | Chapter 1: Establish Goals

Desire for Land Recycling
In addition to having more centers in the
communities, the Wasatch Choice Vision has these
centers located in existing commercial areas adjacent
to major transportation facilities. About 30 percent
of proposed new housing and a quarter of proposed
new employment would take place on land that was
developed before 1990. This signifies an interest in the
gradual evolution of some commercial areas.

Preference for a Variety of Housing
The Wasatch Choice Vision advocates that
neighborhoods maintain much of their current
ambience, but with a notable increase in the variety
of housing options. During Wasatch Choice Vision
workshop exercises conducted to explore housing
type preferences, the average housing mix specified by
participants was averaged 60 percent detached, standalone homes; 25 percent townhouses; and 15 percent
apartments or condominiums (the urbanized portions
of the Wasatch Front in Davis, Salt Lake, and Weber
currently consists of 65 percent single-family dwellings).
Individuals throughout the Wasatch Front Region
expressed an interest in a greater variety of housing,
although they still desired detached, single-family
residences to predominate in future communities.

Emphasis on Bike and Pedestrian Routes
Approximately 45 percent of all transportation
comments received during the 2023-2050 RTP
process represented bike and pedestrian routes,
indicating the popularity of these options. The
Wasatch Choice Vision includes an extensive system
of bike and pedestrian routes that are encouraged
to be implemented to promote flexibility in
transportation choices and to encourage healthy
recreational activities.

Center-Focused Growth: Wasatch
Choice Vision Centers
Wasatch Choice Vision Centers are historic and
emerging regional destinations of economic activity and
housing.

A variety of centers will develop in the future that
are similar to places in our Region today – places
like downtown Salt Lake City, Provo, and Ogden;
emerging downtowns like Sandy City; and transitoriented developments (TODs) like Station Park in

Farmington or the Fireclay District in Murray. These
are examples of concentrated developments that are
growing with market demands for living and working
in accessible locations throughout the Wasatch Front.
Growth that takes place as infill and redevelopment
in these historic and emerging centers is generally
able to make better use of existing infrastructure
when compared to growth that occurs in greenfield
areas. Frequently, the transportation system in these
locations is sufficient to handle additional growth,
especially in locations where the historical street grid
pattern is still in existence, frequent transit service
exists and is shown to be viable, and considerable
roadway and active transportation investments have
been made.
The concept of Wasatch Choice Vision Centers
emphasizes that these designated areas should
be walkable, mixed use, and more dense than
their surrounding area. By supporting compact
development, centers reduce the footprint of urban
development and, by bringing some destinations
closer together, lend themselves to walking and
bicycling. Strategically located centers enable more
people to easily use transit, and tend to reduce
travel distances in general. Centers should provide a
variety of mobility options such as sidewalks, bicycle
and trail connections, transit facilities, and strong
street connectivity in order to serve pedestrians,
bicyclists, and transit riders, as well as drivers. This
transportation infrastructure equips the area to
both support and attract higher-density, mixeduse developments. The Wasatch Choice Vision
suggests that these centers should absorb some of
the expected growth and expand to provide everbroadening choices to residents.
The Wasatch Choice Vision identifies four different
types and intensities of centers.

Metropolitan Center
Downtown Salt Lake City and downtown Ogden are
the Region’s metropolitan centers, serving as the
hubs of business and cultural activity in the Region.
Metropolitan centers have the most intensive form
of growth and expansion for both employment and
housing, with high-rise development common in
central business districts. Similar to today, Salt Lake
City and Ogden will continue to draw people from the
entire metro area and serve as the finance, commerce,
government, educational, retail, tourism, arts, and
entertainment centers for the Region. Buildings
range from four- to 25-stories tall, with the number of
housing units ranging from 20 to 200 per acre. These

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 24 | Chapter 1: Establish Goals

areas act as the Region’s primary transit hubs, and are
also supported by a variety of streets, major freeway
access, and walking and biking facilities.

Urban Center
Urban centers are the focus of commerce and local
government services benefiting a market area of a
few hundred thousand people. Urban centers are
served by a variety of walkable major and local roads.
They typically benefit from freeway access, as well
as high-capacity, high-frequency transit and bicycle
facilities. They are characterized by four- to ten-story
employment and housing options. The number of
housing units range from 20 to 100 per acre.

City Center
City centers provide localized services to tens of
thousands of people within a two- to three-mile
radius. One- to three-story buildings for employment
and housing are typical. The number of housing units
range from ten to 50 per acre. This area is served by a
variety of streets that typically include high-capacity
transit and bicycle facilities.

Neighborhood Center
A neighborhood center typically revolves around
a store or a civic building like a library. The typical
building scale varies from one- to three-stories tall.
Housing types within this center range between small
apartments, townhouses, and small-lot single unit
homes. Neighborhood centers are typically located on
walkable streets, often with frequent bus service, and
bicycle facilities.

Additional Land Use Designations:
Employment, Industrial, and Special
Districts
The following land use distinctions are significant hubs
of employment, economic, and/or educational activity.
As such, these areas draw people from throughout the
Region and are significant trip generators, including
employment and/or freight travel. These areas are
distinct from Wasatch Choice Vision Centers in that
they typically do not have a strong mix of uses or
concentrated housing opportunities.

Employment Districts
An employment district is classified not by size but
instead by the number of employees. This area is
primarily made up of offices or light industrial space.
An employment district attracts a large number of
workers from across the Region and is served by
major roads, highways, and often with high-frequency
bus or high-capacity transit.

Industrial Districts
An industrial district can vary in size and is typically
focused around both light and heavy industry and
warehousing, with some office and retail. This area
is not residential and is primarily freight-oriented.
An industrial district could be served by bus, shuttle,
vanpool, or transportation network companies (TNCs).

Special Districts
A special district is a regionally significant area that
serves a specific purpose apart from more common
land uses such as residential, retail, office, and
industrial. Examples of “special districts” are airports,
educational campuses, and research centers - places
that are distinctive and that may attract people from
the entire region. The special district is served by a
variety of roadway types and transit modes.

Wasatch Choice Vision Goals
WFRC uses Council-adopted regional goals to
inform and set a framework for the work of the
organization. For example, the regional goals underpin
the evaluation criteria that was used to develop
the Wasatch Choice Vision and 2023-2050 RTP,
and inform how future transportation investments
will be evaluated, selected, and prioritized, and
how those projects will be coordinated with local
community priorities regarding the use of land and
the pursuit of economic development opportunities.
Regional goals also inform programming of WFRCadministered funds that are part of the Transportation
Improvement Program (TIP) and Transportation Land
Use Connection (TLC) programs. The regional goals
relate to many aspects of community development
and are intended to be useful for any community or
organization that wants to be a partner in the Wasatch
Choice Vision.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 25 | Chapter 1: Establish Goals

Figure 8. Wasatch Choice Vision Goals

Wasatch Choice Vision goals, shown in Figure 8,
were developed over a year-and-a-half time frame
utilizing local community and Council input. The
goals were compared to past Wasatch Choice 2040
Growth Principles, and support federal transportation
legislation, Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st
Century Act (MAP-21), and the Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, in addition to the
goals of partner transportation entities, including the
Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) and the
Utah Transit Authority (UTA). During development,
these goals were discussed and reviewed by the
Regional Growth Committee (RGC) and its Technical
Advisory Committees (TAC), transportation partners,
businesses, and stakeholders. On October 27, 2016,
the Council adopted the Wasatch Choice Vision goals.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 26 | Chapter 1: Establish Goals

Our Regional transportation system has real
impacts on the lives of Utahns.
Here’s one story:

DIEGO
Diego has previously lived in Austin and
San Antonio in Texas, but has lived in Utah
with his wife for about 7 years now. He is
currently working as a qualitative researcher
for Salt Lake Community College. He only
lives a few miles away from the college, and
so has lots of different options in how he
chooses to get there. Most days he either
hops into the car or onto his motorcycle and
makes the straight shot down 4100 South
towards the SLCC Redwood Campus, but
also takes the bus as often as he can. The
same vehicles are used for getting around
town, thanks to the better gas mileage they
offer, but for longer adventures or trips
involving their dogs he chooses to use their
mid-size SUV. Diego is becoming more
of an “enjoy the journey” person, whether
that is biking, riding the bus, or another
transportation option, and sees this as a
perspective which has made driving
feel less appealing.

2

PUBLIC
INVOLVEMENT
PROCESS
Building on community values through an extensive public input process, the
Wasatch Choice Vision and 2023-2050 RTP established a blueprint for growth
that supports a well-functioning economy, improves air quality, and enhances
the overall quality of life for Utahns living across the Wasatch Front. Through
feedback from local communities and transportation partners, the Wasatch
Choice Vision plans for the Region’s transportation future through 2050.
This locally driven, regionally significant process is key to the success of the
creation of a framework that identifies, selects, and prioritizes projects in the
2023-2050 RTP.

Public Involvement Framework
Key stakeholders are integral to achieving the Wasatch Choice Vision and the
2023-2050 RTP objectives and goals. They are the primary targets for key
messages, strategies, and tactics. Key stakeholders are motivated by varying
self-interests and persuaded by influential intervening publics and resources.
The success of the 2023-2050 RTP will depend on delivering messages and
important project information to key stakeholders. Intervening publics, and
internal audiences or resources help to carry the messages. Table 2 describes
the role of various stakeholders in the development of the 2023-2050 RTP.

Group 1 Stakeholders
Group 1 Stakeholders include decision makers such as elected officials,
planning and engineering staff, and transportation agency partners. These are
those individuals and groups who need to participate directly in the creation
of 2023-2050 RTP. They are the primary decision-makers in local and regional
planning. This is the group that sets policy, establishes priorities, and carries
out planning. Research shows this is also the group who can serve as trusted
spokespeople to their constituencies about the 2023-2050 RTP and the
Wasatch Choice Vision. Decision makers and planners include:
»

Local elected and appointed officials (mayors, city/county council
members, city/county planning commissioners);
» City/county staff (managers, planners, engineers);
» Regional planning organizations - Council of Governments
(COGs), Association of Governments (AOGs), other
Metropolitan Planning Organizations (MPOs);

REGIONALTRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 28 | Chapter 2: Public Involvement Process

Table 2. Stakeholder Groups
GROUP

STAKEHOLDER(S)

DESCRIPTION

Group 1 Stakeholders

Elected Leaders and Partners

Decision makers such as elected officials, staff, and
transportation agencies that participate directly in the
2023-2050 RTP creation

Group 2 Stakeholders

Community and Industry

Freight Stakeholder Group, Wasatch Choice
Community Advisory Committee, Point of the
Mountain State Land Use Authority

Group 3 Stakeholders

Community and Industry

Natural resource agencies, developers and Chambers
of Commerce

Group 4 Stakeholders

The Media and the Public

News media, and residents and commuters of Salt
Lake, Weber, Tooele, Morgan, Box Elder, Summit, and
Wasatch Counties

»

»

Partners and other planning agencies/
key influencers (Utah Department of
Transportation (UDOT), Utah Transit Authority
(UTA), Envision Utah, etc.); and
State elected officials.

Group 2 Stakeholders
Group 2 stakeholders play an essential role in the
long-term implementation of the 2023-2050 RTP.
These stakeholders include groups like the Wasatch
Choice Community Advisory Committee, the
WFRC Freight Stakeholder Group, natural resource
agencies, and various land holding and development
groups. They are involved in the planning process
and potentially in the implementation of planning
outcomes. They can have a strong influence on
Group 1 stakeholder audiences and the public. Such
stakeholders include:
»
»
»
»
»
»
»
»

Wasatch Choice Community Advisory
Committee;
Business community, including the WFRC
Freight Advisory Committee and Chambers of
Commerce;
Community advocacy groups like Bike Utah,
the Trails Foundation of Northern Utah, and
Utahns for Better Transportation (UBET);
Larry H. Miller/DayBreak;
PRI/FRI/SLR Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints land holding groups;
Rio Tinto;
Universities such as Salt Lake Community
College, University of Utah, and Weber State
University; and
Point of the Mountain State Land Authority.

Group 3 Stakeholders
Group 3 stakeholders consist of community and
industry groups that have knowledge and influence as:
»
»

»
»
»
»
»

Natural resource agencies;
National agencies, industry groups, and
associations (Urban Land Institute (ULI),
American Planning Association (APA),
Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE);
Spin and Lime Scooter Share Companies;
Utah Foundation;
Rocky Mountain Power;
Utah Clean Energy; and
Developers, realtors, and lenders.

Group 4 Stakeholders
Group 4 stakeholders consist of residents,
commuters, new media, and trade associations. This
is a group that will be affected by the rollout of the
2023-2050 RTP in the long-term. The support and
participation of Group 4 audiences is important for
the successful implementation of the 2023-2050 RTP.
Such audiences include:
»
»

Residents of Salt Lake, Davis, Weber, Tooele,
Morgan, and Box Elder Counties; and
News media

REGIONALTRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 29 | Chapter 2: Public Involvement Process

External Forces and ForwardThinking Transportation Policies
Peer Groups
During April and May of 2020, WFRC convened a
series of peer group meetings on External Forces
and Forward-Thinking Transportation Policies (see
Chapter 3: Explore External Forces and Policies). These
peer groups consisted of different subject matter
experts as well as UDOT, UTA, local communities, and
industry experts aware of the changing landscape in
technological advancements and how this may shape
the future of cities and transportation systems. The
peer groups were divided into four subgroups: land
use, roadway, transit, and active transportation. Each
peer group held two meeting discussions virtually.
The first meeting was focused on determining which
external forces were highest priorities to each peer
group, while the second meeting focused on the
forward thinking transportation policies. These
priorities were identified to inform the scenario
testing for the external forces later on in the 20232050 RTP planning process.

Forces and Policies Peer Groups
Joint Policy Committee
Small Area Workshops

Preferred Scenario

Online Public
Comment Opportunity

Small Area Workshops
Stakeholder Outreach

Needs-Based Phasing

Online Public
Comment Opportunity

Small Area Workshops
Stakeholder Outreach
Freight Advisory Group
Resource Agency Outreach

Fiscal Constraint Phasing

Online Public
Comment Opportunity

Small Area Workshops
Stakeholder Outreach
Community Advisory

REGIONALTRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 30 | Chapter 2: Public Involvement Process

Fall 2019-Spring 2021

Exploration of External Forces
and Future-Thinking
Transportation Policies

Spring 2021-Spring 2022

WFRC performed significant partner and stakeholder
outreach to gather input on the 2023-2050 RTP,
ranging from contacting all member cities across the
Wasatch Front to engage in the fall workshops, to
technical advisory committee meetings, and special
peer group discussions. Over 30 unique organizations
were sent specific outreach on the RTP, ranging
from transportation advocacy groups, community
organizations including those representing Title VI
and Environmental Justice populations, community
advisory committees, special interest groups, and a
number of individual cities who requested additional
information or opportunity to comment. WFRC also
offered numerous opportunities for stakeholders to
provide feedback through online interactive comment
maps and one-on-one outreach on specific topics
related to the 2023-2050 RTP. Figure 9 provides a
detailed description of the engagement process
for different audiences and stakeholder groups
throughout the multi-year development of the 20232050 RTP.

Spring 2022-Summer 2022

Figure 9. Public Stakeholder
Engagement for the 2023-2050 RTP

Summer 2022 - Winter 2023

Partner, Stakeholder, and
Special Interest Group Outreach

Technical Advisory Committees
The Regional Growth Committee (RGC) Technical
Advisory Committees (TACs) are made up of planners
and engineers that represent cities across the WFRC
Region. These member communities were informed
regularly at each meeting about different aspects
of the RTP planning process, from the development
of the external forces and forward-thinking
transportation policies, to the development of the
preferred project scenario, and providing feedback on
the phasing priorities of projects by different modes.
The TACs provided input many times in the planning
cycling, as illustrated in Figure 9, to ensure local plans
match with the 2023-2050 RTP.

Small Area Workshops
Each fall, from 2020 to 2022, WFRC hosted eight to
ten subregional Wasatch Choice Workshops designed
for local government leaders, elected officials, and key
staff where the discussion focused on transportation,
land use, and economic development opportunities
and challenges facing individual communities.
All Wasatch Choice Workshops were hosted in
partnership with UDOT, UTA, and the Utah League of
Cities and Towns (ULCT).
The workshops focused on gathering input for the
external forces and policies in 2020 and sought out
specific roadway, transit, and active transportation
project requests in 2021. The 2022 workshops were
primarily focused on the phasing and prioritization of
projects for each transportation mode. In all workshops,
participants were engaged in online surveys, small
group discussions, and map-based feedback.

Online Stakeholder Engagement
and Public Comment Summary
Several online interactive mapping tools were created
to provide opportunity to gather feedback on the
2023-2050 RTP. The mapping tools gave stakeholders
and the public the opportunity to comment directly on
the various elements identified on the scenario maps.
A total of 3,447 comments were received through the
engagement process for the 2023-2050 RTP. Table
3 provides a breakdown of these comments during
the process. See Appendix A: Public Comment for all
comments received throughout the RTP process.

Outreach to Title VI and
Environmental Justice Populations
Outreach to Title VI and Environmental Justice
populations occurred through the employment of
multiple techniques for education and outreach,
such as visualization tools, including interactive and
static maps. The goal of this outreach was to inform
and receive feedback from the public, and more
specifically that of Title VI and Environmental Justice
populations, with regard to transportation needs,
potential solutions, and how these are translated
into the Wasatch Choice Vision and 2023-2050 RTP,
the TIP, and other WFRC plans and programs. Two
meetings were held to discuss the RTP with Title VI
and Environmental Justice populations.
On January 25, 2022, WFRC held a virtual Wasatch
Choice Community Workshop. The purpose of this
meeting was to meet with diverse stakeholders
representing low-income, minority, and elderly

Table 3. Online Public Comments Received
PUBLIC COMMENT OPPORTUNITY

DATE

NUMBER OF COMMENTS RECEIVED

Scenario Development Workshop

Fall 2020/Spring 2021

268

Draft Preferred Scenario Workshop

Fall 2021/Spring 2022

696

Needs-Based Phasing

Spring 2022

285

Fiscal Constraints Draft Phasing

Summer 2022

217

Fiscal Constraints Workshop

Fall 2022

357

Draft 2023-2050 RTP

Winter 2023

1,624

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 31 | Chapter 2: Public Involvement Process

populations, as well as those who need social
services. The goal of the discussion was to learn how
these scenarios might increase the quality of life
and opportunities for people who live in the Region.
The meetings allowed attendees to share existing
transportation challenges and ideas to improve access
to jobs, services, and educational opportunities.
Participants were asked to discuss barriers that exist
for the constituents that they represent, and how
transportation and land use strategies can improve
the needs of the communities these groups serve.
The second meeting with Environmental Justice and
Title VI populations was through the Wasatch Choice
Community Advisory Committee on December
6, 2022. This meeting empowered attendees to
share other avenues of engaging with Title VI and
Environmental Justice populations, and this feedback
was incorporated into the remaining engagement for
the 2023-2050 RTP. For more information on WFRC’s
policy on reaching out to special interest groups,
please see the Title VI Plan.

Resource Agency Outreach
WFRC consults with state and federal resource
agencies on the projects needed by 2050
and potential impacts to the natural and built
environment. Projects in the RTP may affect the
programs, lands, or policies over which these various
agencies administer. Outreach to resource agencies is
key to identify the potential impacts included projects
may have on natural and cultural resources and to
provide early identification of key concerns, mitigation
strategies, and solutions development. WFRC held
a virtual resource agency stakeholder meeting in
January 2022 and received 70 comments from
agencies. A list of attendees and their feedback can be
found in Appendix A: Public Comment.

Freight Stakeholder Group
WFRC recognizes the increasing importance of goods
movement within and throughout the Region, and
freight mobility is a key component of the Wasatch
Choice Vision. WFRC convened a Freight Stakeholder
group for the first time to support the 2023-2050
RTP and advance freight planning in the region. The
group has met three times through the course of the
2023-2050 RTP planning cycle to discuss emerging
technologies and the rise of e-commerce as well as
weigh in on freight specific transportation projects.

Special Interest Groups
WFRC met with a number of important landholding
corporations and special interest groups, including
Rio Tinto (Kennecott); The Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints Property Reserve, Inc, (PRI);
Suburban Land Reserve (SLR), and Farmland Reserve,
Inc. (FRI); Utahns for Better Transportation (UBET);
Bike Utah; Parley’s Rails Trails and Tunnels (PRATT)
Coalition; Trails Foundation of Northern Utah (TFNU);
the University of Utah (U of U); Salt Lake Community
College (SLCC); Weber State University (WSU); the
Western Growth Coalition; the Larry H. Miller Real
Estate (Daybreak); Utah Inland Port Authority; the
Point of the Mountain Commission; and a variety of
Federal, State, Regional and Local Resource Agencies.
Representatives and officials for each of these groups
were provided the opportunity to give feedback on
regional transportation needs. The input provided by
these stakeholders were invaluable in determining
if the transportation needs of the Wasatch Front
Region were successfully met. These stakeholders
were identified and utilized throughout the four
year planning process due to being key land holding
groups, land use and transportation experts, and/or
engaged and organized groups interested in land use
and transportation. Each group was provided a handson opportunity to listen to a short presentation,
review various maps, and provide comments on both
land use centers and transportation networks.
Please see Appendix A: Public Comment for any
specific comments received from this outreach.

Generalized Public Comment
A formal public comment period occurred between
January 26 and February 27, 2023. The public was
invited to provide feedback to the draft fiscally
constrained 2023-2050 RTP via an online interactive
map, and notices were distributed via the newspaper,
WFRC’s email distribution list, and through a social
media campaign.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 32 | Chapter 2: Public Involvement Process

Our Regional transportation system has real
impacts on the lives of Utahns.
Here’s one story:

ANNIE
Annie’s family is a big biking family. They use
their bikes to visit the farmers market and
every day her son walks or bikes to school,
she’ll often accompany him for the journey,
allowing them to skip the queue of parents
lining up to pick up their kids. Annie has
encouraged her children to respect public
transit as a way to get around, including to
jujitsu classes downtown and to school.
Her family is excited to see improvements
coming to their local route, with service
frequencies being moved up to every 15
minutes from 1 hour, as well as seeing better
infrastructure and improved stops and
routing throughout the neighborhood of
Rose Park. On the heavier end, Annie is very
concerned about the overall safety of her
local streets, being very particular about the
routes they take, especially while biking. Her
fears were realized a few years ago when
her 6-year-old son was hit and injured
by a driver while biking to a park.
While Annie’s son made a full
recovery and they’re all
biking together again,
bike and pedestrian
safety is a top
concern of
theirs.

3

EXPLORE
EXTERNAL FORCES
& POLICIES
The Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) began the 2023-2050
Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) process with a focus on exploring and
understanding external forces (market shifts, transportation technologies,
and policy approaches) that would impact our transportation, land use,
and economic development decisions. Such forces include transportation
technologies and shifts in market and consumer demand. The intent of this
approach was to elevate the discussion of these planning uncertainties and
understand these changes as a Region. To prepare the Region to be more
resilient to uncertain future changes in the next 30 years, WFRC identified 22
initial external forces and forward-thinking transportation policies, as shown
in Figure 10. The 2023-2050 RTP explores a variety of questions such as how
might transportation systems change in a world dominated by automated
transit? How might micro-mobility and on-demand transportation services be
impacted by high adoption rates of e-commerce and telecommuting?
The steps outlined below describes the steps taken at a very high level to
explore the external forces and forward thinking transportation policies in the
2023-2050 RTP:

Steps to Exploring External Forces and Forward-Thinking
Transportation Policies:
1
2
3
4
5
6

Research external forces and their impact to transportation, land use,
and economic development, and develop literature review;
Develop ranges of implementation of external forces to test into
scenarios;
Run and test external forces scenarios;
Combine test scenarios into plausible external forces scenario;
Test forward-thinking transportation policies; and
Finalize forces and policies into a preferred scenario.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 34 | Chapter 3: Explore Forces & Policies

Figure 10. External Forces and Forward-Thinking Transportation Policies
EXTERNAL FORCES

COVID-19

CONNECTED &
AUTONOMOUS
VEHICLES

E-COMMERCE
& DELIVERY

ELECTRIC VEHICLE
ADOPTION

FREIGHT
DISRUPTIONS

HIGH-TECH
TRANSIT
SYSTEMS

INTER-REGIONAL
HIGH-SPEED
TRANSIT

MICRO-MOBILITY
& E-BIKES

ON-DEMAND
TRAVEL
& SHARING
SERVICES

PASSENGER
DRONES

TELECOMMUTING

FORWARD-THINKING TRANSPORTATION POLICIES

P
APP DEVELOPMENT

CONGESTION
PRICING

CURBSIDE
MANAGEMENT

LOCAL STREET
DESIGN
MODIFICATIONS

MANAGED LANES

Research on the External
Forces and Forward-Thinking
Transportation Policies
Following initial research and literature review, WFRC
compiled a list of 22 topic areas of external forces
and forward-thinking transportation policies, as
shown above, that were presented to and discussed
with peer groups. The peer groups were grouped
by general topic areas - active transportation,
local communities, transit and on-demand travel,
and roadways - and consisted of staff from local
governments, agencies, and businesses whose work
is directly tied to, or may be heavily influenced by
the identified external forces and forward thinking
transportation policies. The purpose of the peer
groups was to hold space for meaningful dialogue
on the identified influences and policies, develop
consensus on which external forces were important to
address, approximate the range of impacts from these
forces, and determine whether these influences and
policies should be tested through simulated scenarios.
Each peer group meeting included a discussion of
each external force as well as a poll asking each
participant how impactful they believed each force
would be in the future. WFRC used these discussions
and polling results to inform and guide the 20232050 RTP planning process. More information about
external forces and forward-thinking transportation
policies can be found in Appendix B: External Forces
And Policies Exploration: Peer Group Discussion.

PARKING
MODERNIZATION

ROAD USAGE
CHARGE

STREET
CONNECTIVITY

SUBSIDIZED
E-BIKE
PURCHASES

TRANSIT
PRIORITY

ZERO-FARE
TRANSIT

The four peer groups helped refine the initial list
into five external forces and nine forward-thinking
transportation policies that WFRC should explore with
a higher level of scrutiny. This refinement was done
through a variety of polls and discussion within each
peer group.
The reduction in external forces was done in part with
how impactful the force may be to transportation
and land use. For example, electric vehicles were not
moved forward after discussions in the peer groups
due to the fact that they simply replace a combustion
engine vehicle on the road. Another external force
like passenger drones drew a lot of interest in the
area, but was ultimately not moved forward for
further modeling testing due to the nascency of the
technology and changing landscape. Other external
forces such as telecommuting and connected and
autonomous vehicles (CAV) have more implications
to shaping our transportation system and land use in
the medium and long-term. CAV has substantiated
research and manufacturers developing different
levels of automation and connectivity in vehicles
through mass production. Telecommuting has been
a real-time experiment as seen through the global
pandemic with COVID-19. Such conditions created
confidence in further exploring certain topic areas
through the 2023-2050 RTP.
The external forces that WFRC ultimately tested
for the 2023-2050 RTP are CAV, high-tech transit
systems, micro-mobility and e-bikes, e-commerce and
delivery, and telecommuting. COVID-19 recovery was
also considered as an overarching external force. Table
4 provides an explanation of each external force.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 35 | Chapter 3: Explore Forces & Policies

Table 4. External Forces within the 2023-2050 RTP
EXTERNAL FORCE

DESCRIPTION

Connected and Autonomous Autonomous vehicles (AV) are vehicles that are capable of driving without human
Vehicles (CAV)
intervention (also called self-driving or driverless vehicles). A connected vehicle (CV)
is one that communicates with other vehicles (V2V), infrastructure (V2I), and other
road users (V2X) via wireless technology.
High-Tech Transit Systems

High-tech transit systems integrate technology within their fleet, often utilizing
Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) to become more efficient through Transit
Signal Priority (TSP), Traffic Signal Coordination (TSC), and other technologies. This
also encompasses connected and autonomous shuttles and buses.

Micro-mobility and E-Bikes

Micro-mobility refers to the use of lightweight devices typically used for shorterdistance transportation. These can include standard bicycles, electric assisted
bicycles (e-bikes), electric scooters (e-scooters), and other mobility devices that have
improved electric motor technology. Micro-mobility devices can be either personally
owned or shared among users, such as GREENbike in Salt Lake City.

E-Commerce and Delivery

E-commerce and delivery refers to a series of changes that are occurring in the
purchase and delivery of goods. These include, but are not limited to, internet
shopping, food delivery, truck automation and platooning, and last-mile delivery
logistics, including drones.

Telecommuting

Telecommuting is the act of partially or entirely replacing out-of-home work
activities by working at home or at locations close to home.

WFRC also created a list of policies aimed toward
resiliency that could help the Region adapt and
respond to the external forces identified. These
policies, as shown in Table 5, are congestion
pricing, curbside management, local street design
modifications, managed lanes, parking modernization,
road usage charge (RUC), street connectivity, transit
prioritization, and zero-fare transit.

Ranges of Implementation for
External Forces
Once the external forces were refined to what would
move forward in the 2023-2050 RTP process, WFRC
went through the process of evaluating the external
forces and forward-thinking transportation policies
through the official Wasatch Front Travel Demand
Model (TDM). TDM version 8.3.1 was used for this
work, and the “base scenario” was run without
modification to serve as a comparison to the external
forces and forward-thinking transportation policy tests.
WFRC began model testing with the external forces.
For each external force, the TDM was modified to
account for how the forces would change travel

behavior and demand. A low, medium, and high rate
of implementation was developed for each external
force, as shown in Table 6.
As a beginning step, each external force was evaluated
independently to determine individual impacts. Please
refer to Appendix C: External Forces and Policies:
Scenario Framework Assumptions for additional detail
on further insight into trends, rationale for ranges of
implementation, and integration of each force into the
TDM environment.

Develop, Run, and Test External
Forces Scenarios
Scenario planning is an important tool used to
explore different stories about how the future might
unfold. Evaluating growth scenarios allows one to
understand the interplay between transportation and
land use decisions, and enables decision makers to
consider how best to accommodate mobility needs
over the coming decades. By analyzing the impacts
and benefits of those alternatives, scenario planning
allows communities to test how well various future
growth patterns meet their goals.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 36 | Chapter 3: Explore Forces & Policies

Table 5. Forward-Thinking Transportation Policies within the 2023-2050 RTP
POLICY

DESCRIPTION

Congestion Pricing

Tolling to enter a cordoned area within a city. Does not include traditional toll lanes and
roads.

Curbside Management

Managing the curb by improving allocation of space for pedestrians, drivers, bicycle
infrastructure, transit services, transportation network companies, micro-mobility devices
and stations, and personal delivery services.

Local Street Design
Modifications

Modifications to the design and speeds of local streets which can improve the suitability
of roads for all modes of travel, especially as new technologies such as CAV and micromobility continue to evolve.

Managed Lanes

Managed lanes are operational strategies that optimize the carrying capacity of existing
transportation facilities.

Parking Modernization

Modernization of parking systems, including elimination of parking minimums, adoption of
paid parking, and unbundled parking costs.

Road Usage Charge

A RUC is a usage-based fee based on a certain rate per mile traveled, replacing or
supplementing taxes imposed on fuel consumption.

Street Connectivity

Connectivity can be defined as multiple routes and connections serving the same origins
and destinations.

Transit Priority

The movement from a direct connect system to a connected network system utilizing
lower tech improvements including queue jumping, dedicated lanes, bus-only lanes,
intersection improvements, bus stop spacing considerations, bus bulbs, and other spot
improvements. Creating a system where transit is the priority and it is fast and frequent.

Zero-Fare Transit

Zero-fare transit is a policy decision to remove the barrier of paying a fare to utilize transit
services. This may be done system-wide or within designated zones.

Table 6. 2050 External Forces Implementation Range Summary
EXTERNAL
FORCE

BASE
SCENARIO

LOW IMPLEMENTATION

MEDIUM
IMPLEMENTATION

HIGH IMPLEMENTATION

Connected and
Autonomous
Vehicles (CAV)

0%

15% of Level 3/Level 4
automation for all new
vehicle sales; 60% of all
roads have CV roadside
units

25% of Level 3/Level 4
Automation for all new
vehicle sales; 80% of all
roads have CV roadside
units

50% of Level 3/Level 4
automation for all new
vehicle sales; 100% of all
roads have CV roadside
units

High-Tech
0% of
20% of technology in the
Transit Systems technology in system
the system

55% of technology in the
system

85% of technology in the
system

Micro-mobility
and E-Bikes

3% of trips
under three
miles are by
bicycle

8% of trips under three
miles are by micromobility

20% of trips under three
miles are by micromobility

40% of trips under three
miles are by micromobility

E-Commerce
and Delivery

Minimal

25% of total retail sales

45% of total retail sales

65% of total retail sales

20% of regional jobs
telecommute

25% of regional jobs
telecommute

Telecommuting 5% of
15% of regional jobs
regional jobs telecommute
telecommute

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 37 | Chapter 3: Explore Forces & Policies

The five external forces were placed into three
categories based on feedback from peer groups:
Automation, Shared Mobility, and E-living. The
categories were developed into scenarios to explore
the impact of high levels of implementation of each
category, and low or medium implementation of
the other forces. For example, e-commerce and
telecommuting were combined into an e-living
scenario that emphasized these two external forces,
while high-tech transit and CAV were combined to
develop an automation-focused scenario. Table 7
breaks down the external forces topic areas by the
scenarios they were grouped within. Each scenario
consisted of various implementation rates, and
evaluated how the external forces interacted with
each other.
Each scenario was tested within the TDM and
performance of the scenario was measured. The
following is a high-level overview of each scenario
and its outcomes. More detailed information can
be found in Appendix D: External Forces: Scenario
Performance Measures.

High Automation Scenario
This scenario explores the impacts of robust adoption
of CAV and high-tech transit systems. It assumes high
levels of implementation of CAV and high-tech transit,

low levels of implementation of telecommuting and
e-commerce, and medium levels of implementation of
micro-mobility options.
High implementation of autonomous vehicles
increased roadway capacity on limited-access
facilities. This increased efficiency led to a reduction in
travel time, as shown in vehicle hours of travel (VHT),
even though vehicle miles of travel (VMT) increased.
The overall number of auto trips decreased by 12
percent in this scenario, so the average trip length
increased with higher implementation of autonomous
vehicles. Higher travel speeds led to increased access
to opportunities - over 12 percent for auto access and
almost 20 percent for transit access. This was the
highest access-to-opportunities gained across the
three forces scenarios.
Overall non-auto mode split increased over 60 percent
from the base scenario. This was due to an increase
in the number of trips less than three miles taken by
micro-mobility. Despite high levels of high-tech transit
implementation, the total number of transit trips
decreased by almost 70,000 trips, or 20 percent from
the base scenario.
Figure 11 summaries the overall outcomes of the
High Automation scenario compared to the baseline
with respect to the three external forces scenarios.

Table 7. External Forces Scenarios Summary
EXTERNAL
FORCE

BASE
SCENARIO 1 HIGH
SCENARIO AUTOMATION

SCENARIO 2 HIGH SCENARIO 3 HIGH
SHARED MOBILITY E-LIVING

PLAUSIBLE EXTERNAL
FORCES SCENARIO

Connected and
Autonomous
Vehicles (CAV)

H

M

L

L/M

High-Tech
Transit Systems

H

M

L

M

M

H

L

L

L

M

H

M

L

M

H

L

Micro-mobility
and E-Bikes

VL

E-Commerce
and Delivery
Telecommuting

VL

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 38 | Chapter 3: Explore Forces & Policies

High Shared Mobility Scenario
This scenario imagines the impacts of high use of
shared mobility options such as micro-mobility,
e-bikes, and on-demand and ridesharing services
(TNC). It assumes medium levels of implementation
of all other forces. High implementation of shared
mobility led to a very significant increase in walk and
bike trips, which led to both a significant decrease in
single-occupant commutes and reduced transit use. In
this scenario, the walk and bike mode split increased
from 10.5 percent in the base scenario to 30.1 percent,
while single-occupant vehicle (SOV) commute mode
split decreased from 87.1 percent in the base scenario
to 68.3 percent, as shown in Figure 12.
The increased use of active transportation also resulted
in reduced VMT by two percent, reduced VHT by nine
percent, and reduced freight delay by 18 percent.

High E-Living Scenario
This scenario investigates the impacts of lifestyle
shifts that favor telecommuting and e-commerce and
delivery. It assumes high levels of implementation of
telecommuting and e-commerce and low levels of
implementation of all other forces.
Although high levels of e-commerce increased
total hours and vehicle miles of travel over the base
scenario, high levels of telecommuting counteracted
these disbenefits. Combined together in this scenario,
vehicle hours of travel nominally decreased by three
percent and vehicle miles of travel decreased by less
than a percent, as shown in Figure 13.
While this scenario reduced drive alone trips to work
by over a million daily trips, transit use also declined
by roughly 60,000 daily trips.

Getting to a Plausible External
Forces Scenario
With the three different scenarios developed and
tested, the outcomes were taken back out to the peer
groups and partner organizations for their review. One
of the factors the review teams had to consider was
how well calibrated the TDM is to reflect the inputs
from the different scenarios. For instance, there is no
direct way to measure CAV performance nor micromobility use in the model; rather, proxy measures were
manipulated to achieve the net effect of any given
external force. Therefore, there was discussion on how

reliable outcomes from the TDM scenario runs were,
especially in the High Shared Mobility Scenario, which
outperformed all other scenarios by a large margin.
Following review and input, the following Plausible
External Forces Scenario was developed as shown in
Table 7:
»
»
»
»
»

CAV implementation at a low/medium rate;
High-tech transit systems implementation at
a medium rate;
Micro-mobility and e-bikes implementation at
a low rate;
E-commerce and delivery implementation at a
medium rate; and
Telecommuting implementation at a low rate.

The Plausible External Forces Scenario produced
measures compared to the 2050 Base Scenario, as
shown in Figure 14. Non-SOV mode share increased
two percentage points, mostly due to an increase
in bicycle and pedestrian usage. There were modest
benefits to VHT and freight delay.

Testing Forward-Thinking
Transportation Policies
WFRC developed a list of policies aimed toward
resiliency that could help the Region adapt and
respond to the external forces identified. These
policies are found in Table 5 above. Through
discussions between WFRC staff, travel modeling
experts, peer groups, and transportation partners,
three of these policies were moved forward to explore
within the abilities of the TDM: zero-fare transit,
managed lanes, and RUC. The remainder of the
policies, some of which were unable to test within
technical tools, will either be explored through large,
additional studies; or through conversations with local
communities and stakeholders; or simply be included
in documentation as policies to explore, as shown
in Figure 15. For information about many of these
policies can be found in Chapter 6: Optimization in the
Preferred Scenario.
For the three forward-thinking transportation policies
that were explored through technical support, the
TDM was modified to account for how the forwardthinking transportation policies would change travel
behavior and demand. For each policy, different
scenarios were tested, as shown in Table 8.
Increasing the auto operating costs by 20 percent to
test the RUC policy had minimal impact on daily auto

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 39 | Chapter 3: Explore Forces & Policies

Figure 11. High Automation Scenario Compared to the 2050 Base

FAIR

FAIR

FAIR

FAIR

FAIR

FAIR

OD
GO

FAIR

OD
GO

FAIR

OD
GO

OD
GO

OD
GO

FAIR

POO
R

VMT

POO
R

NON-SOV MODE SHARE

POO
R

VHT

POO
R

FREIGHT DELAY

POO
R

DESTINATION ACCESS

FAIR

Figure 12. High Shared Mobility Scenario Compared to the 2050 Base

FAIR

FAIR

FAIR

FAIR

FAIR

FAIR

OD
GO

FAIR

OD
GO

FAIR

OD
GO

OD
GO

OD
GO

FAIR

POO
R

VMT

POO
R

NON-SOV MODE SHARE

POO
R

VHT

POO
R

FREIGHT DELAY

POO
R

DESTINATION ACCESS

FAIR

Figure 13. High E-Living Scenario Compared to the 2050 Base

FAIR

FAIR

FAIR

FAIR

FAIR

FAIR

OD
GO

FAIR

OD
GO

FAIR

OD
GO

OD
GO

OD
GO

FAIR

POO
R

VMT

POO
R

NON-SOV MODE SHARE

POO
R

VHT

POO
R

FREIGHT DELAY

POO
R

DESTINATION ACCESS

FAIR

VMT

FAIR

FAIR

FAIR

FAIR

FAIR

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 40 | Chapter 3: Explore Forces & Policies

OD
GO

OD
GO

OD
GO

OD
GO

POO
R

NON-SOV MODE SHARE

POO
R

VHT

POO
R

FREIGHT DELAY

POO
R

DESTINATION ACCESS

OD
GO

POO
R

Figure 14. Plausible External Forces Scenario Compared to the 2050 Base

trips, while slightly decreasing transit trips and slightly
increasing non-motorized trips. In theory, an increase
in the cost of driving would reduce auto trips and
increase transit and non-motorized trips, having more
impact the higher the cost of driving. It is unclear why
transit trips declined. Additionally, changes in mode
share led to very minor changes in VHT and slightly
decreased VMT.

burden rather than utilize tolled facilities. This shift
increased VHT by 28 percent for non-freeway facilities
and reduced VHT on freeway facilities by 12 percent.
The silver lining here is that vehicle delay on local
streets and arterials can equate to slower vehicle
speeds on those facilities. Slower vehicle speeds
produce improved safety outcomes, especially for
vulnerable road users.

To test the Managed Lanes policy, particularly the
complete tolling with full toll roads in the existing
modeling framework, the WFRC team removed the
High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) lanes from the model
network and converted them to general purpose
lanes. All lanes on freeways and access-controlled
facilities were then modeled as tolled facilities
(with the exception of I-15, I-215, and I-80 because
these facilities were built with Federal-aid funds and
restricted from being converted to tolled facilities).
The project team did not toll any arterials since it was
not recommended in the UDOT Managed Lanes study.
The outcome was an overall increase in delay on nonfreeway facilities such as local streets and arterials.
There was an overall increase in delay by 85 percent
for the entire transportation network. For non-freeway
facilities in particular, delay increased by 17 percent
in the managed lanes toll roads scenario. There was a
129 percent increase in overall delay for non-freeway
and limited access facilities, indicating that there will
be a desire to remain on facilities that have no cost

Zero-fare transit resulted in increased ridership in
all three scenarios with a 30 percent increase with
region-wide zero-fare, a 35 percent increase with zerofare and no route transfer penalty, and a 14 percent
increase with reduced fare.
Please refer to Appendix C: External Forces and
Policies: Scenario Framework Assumptions for
additional detail on further insight into trends,
rationale for test scenarios, integration of each force
into the TDM environment, and model results.

Finalize Forces and Policies into
a Preferred Scenario
Once external forces and forward-thinking policies
were tested thoroughly, the TDM was refined to
incorporate the plausible conditions awaiting us in
the future, thus establishing the preferred scenario.

Figure 15. Forward-Thinking Transportation Policies by Exploration Level
EXPLORE WITH TECHNICAL SUPPORT

EXPLORE THROUGH ADDITIONAL STUDY

P
ZERO-FARE
TRANSIT

MANAGED LANES

ROAD USAGE
CHARGE

EXPLORE IN DOCUMENTATION

CURBSIDE
MANAGEMENT

CONGESTION
PRICING

LOCAL STREET
DESIGN
MODIFICATIONS

PARKING
MODERNIZATION

STREET
CONNECTIVITY

TRANSIT
PRIORITY

EXPLORE THROUGH CONVERSATIONS

APP DEVELOPMENT

SUBSIDIZED
E-BIKE
PURCHASES

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 41 | Chapter 3: Explore Forces & Policies

Table 8. 2050 Forward-Thinking Transportation Policy Scenarios
FORWARD-THINKING
TRANSPORTATION POLICY

BASE SCENARIO

POLICY TEST

Road Usage Charge

Auto operating cost per mile for autos
and light, medium, and heavy trucks.

20 percent increase in auto operating
costs per mile.

Managed Lanes

No implementation of tollways.

Select tollways on limited access freeways.

Zero-Fare Transit

Fare structured for system-wide regular
and premium bus and rail service and
zoned-based commuter rail.

Three tests: region-wide zero-fare, regionwide zero-fare with no route transfer
penalty, and 50 percent reduced fare.

For instance, an increased, set future telecommuting
percentage is now permanently embedded in the
TDM, as real world data can support its inclusion.
However, certain other features, such as CAV,
micro-mobility, and e-commerce, are optional dials
that can be used for scenario planning, but are
not automatically included in the base TDM. This
is due primarily to lack of data that can support
future trends. Many of the policies identified in this
exploration work are included as recommendations
for the Region to implement. More information about
these recommended policies can be found in Chapter
6: Optimization in the Preferred Scenario.

Additional Considerations
WFRC will continue to work with its partners to
determine how these disruptive technologies may
affect travel behavior, land use, and work to integrate
outcomes into regional transportation planning
processes. However, due to the evolving nature of the
external forces, many changes have occurred in the
time frame of when WFRC researched, developed, and
formulated external forces into scenarios and in the
project development and prioritization. The external
forces continue to evolve under many factors, and
will be closely evaluated in an ongoing process by
WFRC. These considerations are a reminder that even
these technological advancements continue to remain
in flux and WFRC’s planning needs to be nimble as
changes evolve.
Although WFRC began the transportation planning
process by evaluating a select number of external
forces and advancing these in many ways, like CAV,
there have been advancements and setbacks in
different dimensions in the real world for all external
forces, including equity of implementation.

Drone Delivery Advancements in Utah
Since the beginning of the 2023-2050 RTP process,
there have been major advancements in the space of
electrified aviation, and urban aerial mobility. Utah has
become one of the country’s leading drone testing sites
due to the work of the UDOT Aeronautics Division.
Third party unmanned aerial mobility providers like
Drone Up have worked with local suppliers, cities,
and the UDOT Aeronautics Division to test different
delivery operations in the Wasatch Front. Drone
Up will begin running delivery tests with Walmart
in January/February 2023. In addition to Drone Up,
drone delivery companies like Zipline have partnered
with Intermountain Healthcare to focus on delivery of
specialty pharmaceuticals and home-care products
to patient homes within a 50 mile radius from the
South Jordan distribution/flight center. Intermountain
Healthcare hopes to expand this program to deliver
a range of medications, products, prescriptions, and
other necessary over-the-counter items.

Electric Vehicle Infrastructure
Expansion
Although electric vehicles were ruled out as
an external force to be further evaluated in the
scenarios of the external forces and forward-thinking
transportation policies, many policy advancements
have been made in the past several years to ensure
that zero-emissions vehicles are part of a broader,
fundamental shift in U.S. transportation in hopes of
benefiting individuals and communities and reducing
climate-related emissions from transportation.
Much of these changes in policy are due in part to
the historic passing of the Infrastructure Investment
and Jobs Act (IIJA) in 2021, which created many new
programs that incentives auto manufacturing industry
as well as cities and agencies to advance electric
vehicle expansion. The IIJA also created the National

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 42 | Chapter 3: Explore Forces & Policies

Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Formula Program (NEVI).
NEVI will provide funding to all states, including Utah,
to deploy electric vehicle charging infrastructure along
public roads in order to establish interconnected
infrastructure across the country. Utah’s NEVI
plan was approved on September 14, 2022, and
contains the blueprint for addressing electric
vehicle charging infrastructure, existing and future
conditions, implementation, and program evaluation.
It also describes how Utah will address statewide
connectivity and charging placement needs while
balancing demands for rural and urban areas. The
Federal Government has also set a goal of making half
of all new vehicles sold in the U.S. by 2030 to be zeroemissions vehicles. Although electric vehicles may
not change transportation patterns as dramatically
as other external forces, these advancements in
funding and policy are long lasting and have long-term
consequences to the built environment and air quality.

Autonomous Vehicle and MicroMobility Advancements and Setbacks
With the different levels of automation and
connectivity, there have been different levels of
implementation and advancements of CAV. The
pandemic exacerbated several different external
forces to be tested out, such telecommuting and
increase in local delivery. However, some CAV and
micro-mobility programs have faced setbacks with
advancing research and implementation. Ford Motors
and Volkswagen announced, for example, that
they are closing Argo AI, their autonomous vehicle
company, in order to adapt to changing market
conditions, despite strong customer enthusiasm
for the technology. In addition to setbacks on
CAV advancements, many micro-mobility startup
companies such as Bird and Skip have declared
bankruptcy, while other scooter-share companies
sink into insolvency or merge with larger companies.
Spin Inc. has been acquired by Ford, and Boosted
has acquired Lime. The industry-wide consolidation
means a few well-funded scooter share companies
will dominate a once-crowded field interested in
fulfilling last-mile needs within cities. The downtown
economy in late 2022 is a factor of concern for micromobility companies, with day-time populations yet to
recover from COVID-19 ramifications. On the bright
side, the non-profit bikeshare GreenBike continues
to expand operations in Salt Lake City and is newly
operating in Ogden City, although they are changing
their ridership model in response to the pandemic and
continue to be publicly subsidized.

Equity Challenges of External Forces
Transportation is one of the key factors to creating
upward economic mobility, and the external forces can
play a role to fill this need. However, WFRC recognizes
that some of these external forces can also exacerbate
existing and future inequalities. WFRC recognizes
that there are barriers and cost challenges associated
with emerging technologies such as CAV, e-bikes, as
well as the differences in job types and industries that
are able to benefit from telecommuting. WFRC staff
also evaluated the trade-offs of these technologies
and policies, particularly to communities which have
historically been disadvantaged such as Equity Focus
Area (EFA) communities, and looked to current best
practices to understand how to mitigate negative
impacts of external forces while also harnessing the
benefits in order to increase access to opportunities
for all populations across the Region.
By creating different sketch scenarios focusing on
places, households, and firms, WFRC was also able to
display the differences in how these different areas
may be affected by new and evolving technologies,
and how the Region can be better equipped to
equitably share benefits in the long-term while
mitigating negative long-term impacts to different
segments of the population.
For example, the household sketch scenario provides
opportunities via telecommuting and CAV that allow
white-collar workers more freedom and flexibility in
housing location and choices. White collar workers
may be able to save more money on commuting
costs, while blue-collar workers may see a change
in job opportunities in the future with many job
functions being replaced by automation. The ability
to obtain CAV and electric vehicles have also been
predominantly attainable for upper-middle class
households due to the cost of these types of vehicles.
However, there is a growing interest in making these
types of technologies more readily available for a
broader range of consumers and household types
across the country. With all technologies there are
challenges on how to equitably share the positive
benefits while not exacerbating existing inequalities
seen in transportation.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 43 | Chapter 3: Explore Forces & Policies

Our Regional transportation system has real
impacts on the lives of Utahns.
Here’s one story:

ALEK
Alek is a logistics professional who originally
moved to Salt Lake from Boise, Idaho four
years ago. When he first arrived, he lived
in Sandy, and commuted every day to the
University of Utah and downtown area using
transit. This was eye-opening, as he realized
that he could live in a big suburban house, yet
have access to transit, which prompted him
to become more in love with public transit
and active transportation in general. Since
then, Alek has adjusted his lifestyle to match
the transit system even more, making his
daily commute up to Park City via the 902
bus from his East Central home in Salt Lake
City. He loves that he is able to enjoy the wifi
or a relaxing read without having to worry
about driving in traffic without coffee, dealing
with distracted drivers, or any of the other
typical daily stressors, while being magically
whisked away and dropped off 500 feet
from his Kimball Junction office. Back
at home, everything he needs is
close, including shopping and
medical services, so he is
easily able to walk, bike,
or hop on transit
to run his daily
chores.

4

FUTURE
DEMOGRAPHIC
& EMPLOYMENT
PROJECTIONS
Understanding where in our Region residents will live and work in the future
is key to the long-range transportation planning work of the Wasatch Front
Regional Council (WFRC) and other planning work conducted by local,
regional, and state-level agencies and other stakeholders. WFRC’s Analytics
Group updates its traffic analysis zone (TAZ) scale population, households,
and jobs forecast every four years in conjunction with the regional
transportation planning (RTP) process.
To support the population and employment forecasting process, WFRC
collaborates with the Mountainland Association of Governments (MAG) to
develop and maintain the Wasatch Front Real Estate Market Model (REMM).
REMM is a development simulation tool, built on the UrbanSim software
platform, that distributes future county-level growth projections developed
by the University of Utah’s Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute (GPI) to each of
the Wasatch Front’s 3,500 TAZ, which average about one square mile in size.
REMM produces a projected count of the number of people, households, and
jobs (by major economic sector) for each TAZ, for each future planning year
through 2050.
The final results from REMM are reviewed and, in limited cases, professional
judgment is used to make adjustments, prior to releasing the final regional
forecast results. The regional population, household, and employment
forecast is officially updated every four years with the adoption of each RTP
and may be updated through the RTP amendment process. This official RTP
regional forecast is the suggested starting point for use for the demographic
and employment distribution input to be used with the regional travel
demand mode (TDM).
In addition to the county-level control totals provided by GPI, REMM relies
on extensive data inputs specific to the Wasatch Front Region to inform its
simulation including:
»
»

Local land use plans, standardized and aggregated into a region-wide
Generalized Future Land Use GIS layer;
Wasatch Choice Vision land use centers, updated in collaboration with
local government staff and adopted into the 2019-2050 RTP under
Amendment 4;
» Parcel-level valuation and other characteristics from County
Assessors’ offices;
» Job counts and locations from the Utah Department of
Workforce Services (DWS);

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 45 | Chapter 4: Future Projections

»
»

»

Commercial lease summary information from
local commercial real estate brokerages;
City and industry provided input about nearterm real estate development projects and
other economic development opportunities
moving forward in the approval and permitting
processes; and
Feedback collected from stakeholders in an
interactive web map of a preliminary draft
version of the forecast.

The most current version of the official RTP
population and employment forecast can be viewed
at the TAZ and ‘city area’ level in the WFRC Household
and Job Forecast web map. The map allows users
to explore any year of the forecast as well as the
projected change between any two years at both
geographic levels.
In addition, data from four of the REMM-related inputs
summarized above are also available as publicly
available interactive maps – designed to support
planning work and general understanding of the
regional landscape – and downloadable datasets.

Population and Employment
Projection-Related Map
Resources
»
»
»
»

Household and Job Forecast Map (displays
the most recent RTP forecast, currently
2023 - 2050)
Generalized Future Land Use
Wasatch Front Vision Map – Land Use
Wasatch Front Housing Unit Inventory

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 46 | Chapter 4: Future Projections

CHOOSE

Our Regional transportation system has real
impacts on the lives of Utahns.
Here’s one story:

DAULET
Daulet is a full-time nursing student at Weber
State, hoping to finish up his studies next year.
Originally an international student who came
from Kazakhstan during high school during
2013, he now lives without a car in northern
Utah and uses the public transportation
system extensively to commute and to explore
the region. Generally, when he has class he
takes the bus shuttle that operates on his
school campus. When he works hospital shifts,
he mixes things up a bit, due to the late hours
of the work. Depending on when the shift
starts, he is often either starting or finishing
up his shift as bus service ends or begins,
and therefore will usually integrate some
carpooling with friends from his program. This
commute takes him to Davis Hospital in Layton
and takes about 15 minutes. When the timing
works out, he’ll integrate a UTA bus into the
mix as well, although it often requires him to
wake up earlier. Outside of work, Daulet will
take the bus to Union Station in order to use
TRAX and the FrontRunner for leisure trips
to the downtown SLC area, where he’ll
spend time with friends hanging
out. Thanks to his status as a
student at WSU, he gets
to use the system for
free and takes full
advantage of it
when he can.

5

OUR
PREFERRED
SCENARIO
The purpose of the 2023-2050 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) is to
address the transportation needs for the Wasatch Front Region and help
make the Wasatch Choice Vision a reality. The 2023-2050 RTP planning
process produced a list of planned improvements to regional roadway, transit,
and active transportation systems designed to meet the travel needs of the
Wasatch Front Region for the next 28 years. The 2023-2050 RTP process also
reviewed the work done in previous Wasatch Choice Vision efforts, including
the Preferred Scenario of the 2019-2050 RTP. The planning process evaluated
long-range capacity needs and policies to optimize the transportation
system, while examining changes in travel patterns and mode choice, land
use, economic activities, and anticipated new growth areas. The 2023-2050
RTP, along with comprehensive economic development strategies and local
land use planning, form the basis of the Wasatch Choice Vision.

Regional
Transportation
Plan

WASATCH CHOICE

OUR
FUTURE
2050

Local
Land Use
Planning

Comprehensive
Economic
Development
Strategy

The 2023-2050 RTP aims to improve our Region’s transportation system
and quality of life through a two-pronged approach - optimization and
enhancement. The optimization of our system includes policies aimed
at moving more people within existing transportation facilities and
enabling people to have greater mobility with less traffic. The
enhancement of our system includes building additional roads,
transit lines, and urban trails.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 49 | Chapter 5: Our Preferred Scenario

Our Regional transportation system has real
impacts on the lives of Utahns.
Here’s one story:

ANDRES
Andres is a 25-year-old resident of
Taylorsville. He is studying sociology, having
transferred from Venezuela where he was
working on his degree in political science.
Currently he also works full time at Amazon
on night shifts, which are a set of 12 hour
shifts over the weekend that allow him to
attend class on the weekdays. Whenever
it’s available, Andres prefers the car option,
it being the family car or carpooling with
friends when getting around the region,
but otherwise he relies on public transit to
meet his needs. A typical transit day for him
involves connecting by bus to the TRAX Red
Line and riding it up to the University of Utah
for class. For his job, he takes one of two
bus routes that operate in the evening and
then snags one again the next morning after
the end of his shift. In a very general way, he
sees access to a wide array of opportunities
to be a good indicator of a high quality of
life. These include good roads and transit,
quality connectivity within cities, clean
air and environment, and most
importantly: economic standards
supporting good wages and
job opportunities.

6

OPTIMIZATION IN
THE PREFERRED
SCENARIO
The system improvements focus on the capacity and operations of regional
transportation infrastructure. There are many other ways that can help
connect us to the places we need to go in addition to the form and function
of regional facilities. In this section we highlight policies that can help us
optimize our complementary system of transportation and land use. Policies
also address new considerations like emerging transportation technologies,
and suggest implementing actions with other entities that would
significantly affect mobility, accessibility, and quality of life in the Wasatch
Front (again, that complement efforts to implement regional transportation
infrastructure changes).
In this chapter, we list key considerations in the exploration of policies - issues
or outcomes that we will want policy concepts to build upon or advance. We
then consider the status and next steps of the “forward-thinking policies.”

Key Considerations for the Exploration of
Policies
Before we articulate each policy concept, we first put forward key
considerations that will underpin how specific policy concepts are explored.

01 Ensure State of Good Repair
Proper repair and regular maintenance of transportation facilities for all modes
should be a high priority for any authority responsible for such facilities.
Potholes and uneven pavement are daily reminders of the importance of
the maintenance and preservation of our transportation system. The Utah
Department of Transportation (UDOT) and local communities invest heavily
in the preservation of the roadway system. Good roads cost less. UDOT
includes and prioritizes pavement preservation and structures maintenance
projects in its Statewide Transportation Solutions Plan.
The Utah Transit Authority (UTA) recognizes the need to maintain and
operate all elements of the transit system in a safe and efficient manner.
For active transportation, well-kept sidewalks, shared-use paths, bike lanes,
among other facilities, provide reliability, comfort, and safety to users.
Policy concepts should help advance the key consideration of
ensuring a state of good repair.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 51 | Chapter 6: Optimization

02 Mitigate Growth of Travel
Demand
The Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) seeks to
reduce the need for transportation capacity even as
we plan to enhance mobility.
Transportation infrastructure is generally expensive.
Mitigating growth of travel demand can mean
reduced travel distances or increased use of spaceefficient modes of travel like carpooling and public
transportation. Mitigating growth of travel demand
should never come at the expense of the economy, i.e.,
we should never force people to avoid going to their
desired destinations. Effective strategies to mitigate
growth or travel demand can do just the opposite:
enable the economy to function more effectively by
enabling trips to be accomplished more easily. For
example, if we work to increase the number of potential
workers that can reach firms by transit in a reasonable
commute, it would mean better business production
and would lower the demand for roadway capacity.
Policy concepts should mitigate growth in travel
demand in ways that maintain or improve the health
of the economy.

03 Explore Use of Pricing to
Improve Mobility
WFRC explores the use of pricing strategies as
a way to improve transportation system and
economic outcomes.
Given the physical constraints of existing office
buildings and homes, our geographic location
between the mountains and lakes, and the costs
required to build more infrastructure, WFRC works to
maximize the utility of existing infrastructure while
keeping people, goods, and services moving. One way
to do this is to explore the use of pricing strategies.
The purpose of pricing is not to generate revenue, but
to improve transportation outcomes. Revenue can be
sent back to affected communities or used to operate
the system.
Perhaps the most important consideration in travel
is time -- “how long will it take me to get there?”
Congestion increases travel time and, to an extent,
harms the economy. Businesses and residents must
also plan for a “bad traffic day” or face the disruption
of missed appointments. It therefore makes sense to
see if we can save the traveling public enough time
through pricing modifications that the net effect

is positive. Time savings of a toll can more than
compensate for the direct financial expenditure of
the toll. Experience with pricing around the world
demonstrates that those positive economic outcomes
are predictably achievable. This is especially important
to consider given that it is unrealistic to widen
roadways in perpetuity.
Policy concepts should explore the potential that
pricing strategies have to help our economy function
better, improve mobility, and further enhance access
to opportunities.

04 Improve Fit Between
Transportation and Land Use
WFRC supports having the design and function of
future transportation facilities be coordinated with the
desired design and function of adjacent land use.
This helps ensure that streets balance the needs
of businesses and neighborhoods in addition to
facilitating movement of people. If there is a conflict
between a current or proposed transportation
decision and a current or proposed land use planning
decision, the two decisions should ideally be resolved
together to minimize conflict.
Policy concepts should seek to improve the fit
between transportation and desired nearby land use.

05 Consider Long-Term Needs
of All Modes of Travel when
Implementing Transportation
Projects
WFRC supports having the design and function of
a transportation facility, such as a street, meet the
needs of individual modal elements, as outlined in the
2023-2050 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP).
This includes the needs of people driving, delivering
goods, taking transit, bicycling, and walking,
as is appropriate. When practical, the timing of
construction should consider ways to reduce the
aggregate costs of all anticipated improvement of
each applicable transportation mode.
Policy concepts should advance this consideration.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 52 | Chapter 6: Optimization

06 Prepare for Resiliency in the
Face of Uncertainty
WFRC seeks to have a transportation plan that helps
the Region be resilient in the face of an uncertain
future. WFRC will highlight key vulnerabilities to our
member communities and Region.
The Wasatch Front will likely face a variety of shocks
to the economy and environment over the 2023-2050
RTP horizon. Any region that is built to only thrive
under average or optimal conditions is vulnerable to
unusual or significantly negative conditions. We have
to develop a transportation system that thrives in a
variety of conditions.
Resiliency efforts help the Region protect assets
and people from disasters like a changing climate,
earthquakes, floods, landslides, and fires as well as
prepare for economic recession.
Policy concepts should help us prepare for resiliency
in the face of uncertainty.

07 Link Planning with Project
Development
WFRC will continue to explore, with UDOT and UTA,
ways to better connect the 2023-2050 RTP and future
RTPs to project development and environmental
review processes for transportation projects.
Improving these linkages would mean additional
process requirements and documentation for WFRC.
The benefits would be reduced project delivery
times and potentially significant cost savings for
implementing parties.
Policy concepts should be implemented in ways that
help link planning with project development.

08 Maximize the Value of Emerging
Technologies
WFRC, along with its transportation partners,
develops plans and more detailed policies to maximize
the value of emerging technologies.
A number of significant technological shifts are
underway or anticipated that will change the way
we travel, where we travel, and what and how goods
are shipped. Some of these technological shifts will
also affect where people choose to live and work.
WFRC has worked to address how we can together
maximize the benefits that may accrue from emerging

technologies. Many believe that the changes we will
see in the coming decades - take connected and
autonomous vehicles, for example - will be the biggest
seen since the invention of the automobile. Think
back about the introduction of the automobile: life
changed in a myriad number of ways, some positive
and some negative. Cities around the world addressed
automobile proliferation in different ways which led
to dramatically different outcomes to quality of life.
Similarly, we must plan now to maximize the net
impact of emerging technologies.
Policy concepts should maximize the value of
emerging technologies.

Forward-Thinking Policies:
Status and Next Steps
The eight policy concepts emerged from a process
articulated in Chapter 3: Explore External Forces
& Policies. WFRC supports earnest exploration of
these policies in order to more fully optimize our
transportation system. In this section we consider
the status and next steps (for exploration or
implementation) of each.

Centered Development
Rationale
A center is a walkable, mixed-use location that
provides a variety of amenities and services. Centers
are located to benefit from a nexus with regionally
significant transportation corridors - high-capacity
transit and major roadways. Centers draw people from
surrounding neighborhoods and serve as lively, central
locations for people to gather while also highlighting
the uniqueness of an area.
All centers share three fundamental components:
1
2
3

They are more intense than their surrounding
area,
Have a walkable design that encourages
visitors to explore and interact
Offer a mix of uses such as jobs, shopping,
housing, and so forth.

In addition, almost all centers benefit from access to
regional transportation via car, public transportation,
bike, and/or foot. Centers including Metropolitan,
Urban, City, and Neighborhood scale centers are a
focal point of the Wasatch Choice Vision.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 53 | Chapter 6: Optimization

Benefits and Impacts
When a higher percentage of growth, homes, and
jobs are located in centers there are a broad variety of
benefits. Centered growth:
Protects rural and single-family neighborhoods.
Centers can efficiently accommodate a lot of growth
on relatively little land due to their higher level of
intensity and walkability. In a scenario in which the
same amount of growth occurs overall but more
is located within centers, there will be much less
resulting growth pressure on rural areas and single
family neighborhoods.
Saves households time and money. Centers locate
more homes and jobs near each other and in close
proximity to transit. By doing so they reduce the time,
distance, and money it takes for people to reach their
destinations. People save money on fuel and can
possibly live with fewer automobiles in their household.
Improves health through increased physical activity.
People that work and live in centers walk and bike
more and tend to be healthier.
Improves the economy by improved workforce access
to businesses and education. Centered growth helps
businesses reach more consumers and employees
to have a bigger selection of jobs within a typical
commute. When more growth is near speedy regional
infrastructure, as centered growth engenders, it
means more residents can access opportunities.
Improves air quality. More transit, walk, bike, and
shorter commutes means less pollution in the air.
Saves tax expenditures. Centers naturally have
lots of tax revenue per mile of public streets and
underground infrastructure.
Reduces environmental impacts. Centers have low
environmental impacts per person: water, energy, air,
and green-house gases.
Centered growth can be locally controversial by
increasing traffic within the area of the center and
by creating intensity near locations that have less
intensity. The very definition of a center is that it
is more intense than its surroundings. A shift in
development intensity from one area to a center can
decrease the degree to which residents will accept
growth in centers. Importantly, centered growth tends
to be less controversial than accommodating more
development within existing neighborhoods.

Next Steps (further exploration to
initial implementation)
Centers are implemented locally through general
plans and land use ordinances. The Transportation
Land Use Connection program is available to help.

Tools and Resources
»
»
»

State of the Centers Report
Wasatch Choice Vision resources
Transportation Land Use Connection program

Congestion Pricing
Rationale
Congestion Pricing refers to variable road tolls (higher
prices under congested conditions and lower or no
prices at less congested times and locations) intended
to reduce peak-period traffic volumes to optimal
levels. The rationale is that the value lost by a driver
due to traffic congestion - in terms of the value of lost
time and the need to plan on a “bad traffic day” - is
very high. Meanwhile the cost of a toll that is “just
high enough” to convince just enough drivers to make
alternative arrangements in order for the road to be
free flowing is significantly lower than the congestion
cost. Congestion pricing makes sense in theory for
both individual drivers and society as a whole. This
has led some transportation planners to refer to it as
“Value Pricing” instead.
With congestion pricing, tolls can vary based on a
fixed schedule, or they can be dynamic, meaning that
rates change depending on the level of congestion
that exists at a particular time. It can be implemented
when road tolls are implemented to raise revenue,
or on existing roadways as a demand management
strategy to avoid the need to add capacity.
Addressing induced demand. In the absence of
pricing mechanisms, induced traffic demand typically
consumes road capacity improvements. Induced
demand refers to the fact that households tend to
choose to travel more or disproportionately choose
peak travel times where there is a lack of traffic
congestion. They tend to travel more ,or at the peak,
until the congestion largely returns which undermines
the capacity increasing road investment. Congestion
pricing is a means of holding on to the congestion
reduction by counteracting induced demand.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 54 | Chapter 6: Optimization

Highway implementation. One implementation
scenario is to have a highway in which there is a
combination of unpriced lanes and value-priced lanes,
allowing motorists to choose between driving in
congestion and paying a toll for an uncongested trip.
Area implementation. Another implementation
scenario is to cordon off an area and apply congestion
pricing to the area. Cordon tolls are fees paid by
motorists to drive in a particular area, usually a city
center or a canyon. Some cordon tolls only apply
during peak periods, such as weekdays. This can be
done by simply requiring vehicles driven within the
area to display a pass or by tolling at each entrance to
the area.

Benefits and Impacts
Impacts on adjacent streets. One fear is that
congestion pricing would lead to significant avoidance
behavior by drivers that would burden adjacent
streets. However, avoidance of significant congestion
already burdens adjacent streets. Because a freeflowing road actually moves more people, the overall
avoidance burden on adjacent streets is anticipated to
be lower. This is based on having tolling levels be “just
high enough” to convince “just enough drivers” to
make alternative arrangements which in turn enable
the priced roadway to move many more people in a
free-flowing condition.
Revenue Neutrality. Congestion pricing can
be explored only as a mechanism to help the
traveling public and not as a revenue generator for
transportation. As such the revenue collected could
be distributed to cities and counties that are part of
implementing congestion pricing or used to pay for
the congestion pricing operating system.
Equity Considerations. One fear is that congestion
pricing would have a disproportionate negative impact
on low income households. Some level of revenue
generated by congestion pricing can be distributed
to affected low-income households to help them pay
for their transportation including the tolls put in place
by the congestion pricing program. This gives those
households the power to make a decision that works
best for them. That might enable them to pay the
during-congestion-toll, defraying the trip to earlier
or later, or taking public transportation. Often the
congestion pricing concept is explored in locations
where high quality public transportation alternatives
exist. An additional option is to utilize some of the
congestion pricing revenue to fund improvements to
adjacent public transportation.

Next Steps (further exploration to
initial implementation)
Conduct initial study to inform the conversation.
Details of how this concept might be applied in Utah
have not been studied, including the potential of
where, how, and benefits and impacts. A first step
would be to fund an exploratory study. Such a study
would help policymakers more fully understand the
pros and cons and what it might look like if put in
place in Utah.
Congestion pricing has potential controversy since
almost all driving routes and locations in Utah are
currently offered free to the user. As such, part of
study could also consider how to introduce the
concept and rationale to a broad audience.
Congestion pricing through dynamic tolling could
most easily be explored in the following conditions
or locations:
»
»
»

Where existing high-occupancy toll (HOT)
lanes exist;
Where high-quality transit options are
adjacent; and
In locations where there is a severe disparity
between peak congestion and off-peak
congestion, such as ski-serving canyons.

Tools and Resources
Federal Highways Administration (FHWA) Congestion
Pricing Webpage

Local Street Design Modifications
Rationale
Street design and function has significant impacts
on quality of life. The concept of the “local street
design modifications” policy concept is to match the
design and function of a roadway to its surrounding
context (and vice versa) in order to maximize shared
objectives. Context is important even while also
continuing to balance the regional mobility role of
a road. As an example, a road should look, feel, and
operate differently in a downtown area compared to
an industrial area. The downtown should have slower
speeds and wider sidewalks while the industrial
road should have smoother turning radii and wider
roads. By having these two roadways match their

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 55 | Chapter 6: Optimization

respective contexts it makes both the downtown and
the industrial area work better for the economy and
improves safety.
Local street design impacts driver behavior and the
speed they will choose to travel, known as the “design
speed.” Evidence on the safety effect suggests,
for example, that conversions of arterial streets to
better accommodate a walkable context achieves a
19 percent reduction in crashes. Street design also
affects transportation safety both from the speed
of traffic and the comfort and protection afforded to
pedestrians and cyclists.
Street design impacts economic opportunity by
influencing both the likelihood and the type of
buildings that landowners want to develop. A
fast-moving road with narrow sidewalks and no
accommodation for on-street parking will reduce the
likelihood that a developer will build a main-streetstyle restaurant or place a walkable apartment next
to a street. Meanwhile a road that is too narrow to
accommodate high-volume freight movement will
dissuade firms from locating their industrial business
within an area.

Benefits and Impacts
Most roadways need to accommodate many different
types of users. There are invariably some design and
operational decisions that work better for some users
at the expense of others. Freight and pedestrian
needs can be at odds. As design decisions are made,
there must therefore be a balance of considering
context as well as the overall function of the
transportation route and facility.
As context sensitive solutions are explored, there may
be a predilection toward customizing each solution to
the particular issues at hand. Customization ensures
solutions `fit like a glove’ and increase the level of
control by stakeholders. However, a major trade-off is
that custom solutions tend to increase the cost and
time associated with roadway planning and design.
An approach to develop clear standards that vary
based on the street type can be a way to address the
shortcomings of customized design solutions.

Next Steps (further exploration to
initial implementation)
Transportation partners in Utah - WFRC, Mountainland
Association of Governments (MAG), UDOT, and
UTA - have identified long-range, planning-level

methods to reconcile potential incompatibilities with
transportation facilities and context.
This effort is called Wasatch Choice Great Streets. It
is the shared desire of the partners, including local
governments represented by WFRC and MAG, that
the Wasatch Choice Great Streets framework will
inform design and planning decisions that build on the
Wasatch Choice Vision and the RTP.

Tools and Resources
FHWA Context Sensitive Solutions and Design
resources
Wasatch Choice Great Streets Framework (links to be
added in Fall 2023)

Managed Lanes
Rationale
Managed lanes are operational strategies that
optimize the person moving capacity of existing
transportation facilities. “Managed lanes” refers to
a broad variety of strategies such as coordinated
ramp signaling, lane use management, and variable
message signing. For example, in order to optimize
the overall travel time on the freeway, users may
spend more time waiting to enter the freeway and
speeds may be adjusted downward.

Benefits and Impacts
In 2021, UDOT developed a Statewide Managed Lanes
Study to review a number of strategies. According to
UDOT, three main benefits can be achieved through
managed lanes strategies, including congestion
management, demand management, and potential
revenue source. There are a suite of strategies which
fall under the managed lanes concept. The following is
a list of managed lanes strategies UDOT has explored:
1 High-occupancy vehicle (HOV) lanes
2 High-occupancy toll (HOT) lanes
3 Toll roads and toll lanes
4 Reversible lanes
5 Part-time shoulder use
6 Bus lanes
7 Ramp metering
8 Managed motorways
9 Truck lanes
10 Connected Autonomous Vehicles (CAV) lanes
11 Advanced road usage charge (RUC)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 56 | Chapter 6: Optimization

Managed lanes can increase mainline throughput,
network productivity, and overall travel time reliability
depending on which type of strategy is applied.
Pros: Applying managed lanes concepts can reduce
expenditures for additional projects that require
widening or traditional forms of meeting demand for
roadway capacity with new lanes. Managed Lanes
are also included in the 2023-2050 RTP as specific
projects or within projects.
Cons: There are a lot of strategies which overlap
and make up the managed lanes concept which can
be challenging for tracking or advancing broader
understanding of managed lane strategy benefits.

Next Steps (further exploration to
initial implementation)
UDOT is currently studying Managed Motorways from
southern Davis County, through Salt Lake County,
and into northern Utah County. These segments have
been identified as the top priorities across the greater
Wasatch Front with an eye toward implementation in
the next few years.
UDOT is exploring CAV lanes along with the RUC.
Many of the strategies listed above will also be
explored in more detail in existing and future
environmental studies.
WFRC and UDOT will explore and review a network of
managed lanes options for future studies or inclusion
into future RTPs.

Tools and Resources
Managed Lanes: a Primer
Statewide Managed Lanes Study

Parking Modernization
Rationale
Parking demands are in a state of significant flux.
They are affected by a variety of historically unusual
external forces such as telecommuting, the growth
of transportation network companies (TNCs) like
Uber and Lyft, and the spread of first-/last-mile
solutions including micro-mobility. All communities
that have parking regulations that don’t address these
considerations should update their standards.

Parking regulations can be modernized as well to
achieve community benefits like freeing up additional
land for development or open space. This in turn
would improve destination accessibility; increase the
propensity for transit, walk and bike; and improve the
fiscal health of a community.

Benefits and Impacts
Parking availability has a significant influence on mode
choice. Parking maximums have been shown to be
an effective way of reducing car use, as has priced
parking. Parking availability and pricing specifically
at places of work affects commute mode choice.
Evidence is growing that residential parking might
be just as influential as workplace parking related to
mode choice and vehicle ownership.
The recently-completed Utah Parking Modernization
Study conducted two local case studies (South Salt
Lake City and Ogden) and showed that both cities
are overparked (significantly more supply than is
warranted by demand) in almost every land use
where data was collected. Parking modernization also
includes re-examining parking needs for bikes and
other mobility devices.
Pros: Parking regulation modernization could lead
to more efficient land use, both in urban and other
settings. This can lead to higher revenue for local
governments, higher land values and rents for
property owners, less waste spent on construction
of unnecessary parking facilities, and decreased
congestion, among other things. However, not all
communities will be impacted in the same way from
forces like freight, TNCs, and micro-mobility.
Cons: A comprehensive modern parking regulation
program would use technology to inform real-time
parking availability and prices; this can be expensive
to deploy and implement. Also, many cities rely on
parking fees and tickets as revenue; any changes to
the parking regulation will have to take changes of
revenue into account.

Next Steps (further exploration to
initial implementation)
WFRC will be disseminating the Utah Parking
Modernization Study around the release of the 20232050 RTP.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 57 | Chapter 6: Optimization

Potential Costs and Responsibilities
The Transportation and Land Use Connection (TLC)
program is also available to assist communities that
are interested in exploring modernization of their
parking regulations.

Tools and Resources
A Business Case for Dropping Parking Minimums
Utah Parking Modernization Study (links to be added
in Fall 2023)

Road Usage Charge
Rationale
A road usage charge (RUC) is a usage-based fee
based on a certain rate per mile traveled, which would
replace or supplement taxes imposed on the amount
of fuel consumed. The Utah State Legislature has
passed legislation requiring UDOT to enroll all vehicles
registered in the state in the RUC program by 2031.

Benefits and Impacts
Interest in RUCs as a replacement for gas taxes is
increasing around the nation as vehicles become more
efficient and as more drivers use electric vehicles.
It could take 10 to 25 years to fully transition from a
gas tax to a RUC system. There has been significant
discussion about the impacts to rural drivers, but
there has been no evidence that rural drivers would
be impacted disproportionately, with studies showing
rural drivers would pay less compared to their urban
counterparts.
One major concern from the public is the privacy of
personal information, although many vehicles and cell
phones already collect and share numerous pieces
of personal information, including location. Pilot
programs have mitigated privacy concerns by using
third-party vendors with limits on how long data may
be stored. UDOT’s RUC pilot program is exploring
many other typical considerations in implementing
a RUC. Addressing and accounting for out-of-state
users is another consideration that is being explored
in pilot programs along the eastern coast of the U.S.
Pros: RUC programs provide fairness in that they
can effectively match user impacts to the fees
users pay. For example, through RUC, a rancher that

predominantly uses dirt roads would no longer be
subsidizing urban area drivers.
Oregon’s RUC program has been shown to reduce
vehicle miles traveled (VMT). Similar programs in
Germany have resulted in declines in empty freight
vehicles, purchase of more energy efficient trucks,
and a shift from moving freight by trucks to by trains.
Cons: Gathering of road usage data may be seen as
intrusive by some. The visibility of paying on a permile basis may be difficult for many to accept and may
be challenging to discuss with the public and policymakers.
Utah-specific impacts as UDOT’s pilot program has
been underway for a couple of years. Nationally, there
is concern that implementing a RUC only on fuelefficient vehicles would negatively impact purchases
of fuel efficient vehicles, but this is not well studied.

Next Steps (further exploration to
initial implementation)
UDOT is exploring scenarios that would see full
implementation of the RUC program by the end of
2031. These are detailed in S.B. 150 Transportation
Governance and Funding Amendments from 2020.
The RUC program currently has multiple federal
grants aimed to further the implementation of the
program, including:
»

»

»

»

Utah Alternative Fuel Vehicle RUC Program:
statewide implementation of a fully
functional RUC program for alternative fuel
vehicles. Owners of such vehicles have the
option to enroll in the RUC program instead
of paying the alternative fuel vehicle fee at
time of registration.
Integration of RUC & Express Lanes Tolling:
possibility of combining the RUC program
with UDOT’s Express Lanes tolling system.
Technologies, processes, and customer
communication will be tested.
RUC Local Overlay: Feasibility of local
government agencies (i.e. cities and counties)
to use Utah’s RUC platform as a means to
generate user-based revenue to pay for
their transportation needs. Technologies,
processes, and customer communication will
be tested.
RUC Customer Service Optimization: explore
participant experience and how UDOT and
other state and federal governments can
optimize the RUC customer experience.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 58 | Chapter 6: Optimization

Tools and Resources
»
»

Utah’s Road Usage Charge Program
UDOT’s Road Usage Charge History and
Technical Information

Street Connectivity
Rationale
Connectivity can be defined as multiple routes
and connections serving the same origins and
destinations. Connectivity has long been known as
providing multiple benefits.

Benefits and Impacts
Street connectivity is manifest in street networks that
have short block lengths and high intersection density.
When this condition is present, it enables people to
travel straighter, more as the crow flies. This shortens
travel distances, reducing VMT. It also increases the
number of people with transit access within a short
walk or bike ride (again stemming from the ability to
travel more directly). Better connectivity also results
in a more balanced distribution of traffic flows within
the roadway network, reducing travel times and delays
throughout the system.
Greater connectivity leads to significant increase in
walking. In built-out cities and neighborhoods, some
properties or easements may need to be acquired
to connect roads, providing more route choices and
taking less pressure off heavily congested arterials.
Connectivity also enables areas to achieve higher
levels of development intensity because a connected
network handles more vehicles. By enabling higher
development intensity connectivity further enables
more walking. Regarding safety, limited research has
shown that low intersection density networks had the
highest risks of fatal and severe crashes.
Pros: High levels of street connectivity has a significant
positive impact on the propensity to walk and to use
public transportation. Street connectivity is associated
with reduced VMT, overall reductions in vehicle hours of
delay, and reduced average trip length. These benefits
are highest between low and moderate connectivity
and diminish between moderate and high connectivity.
With an increase in connectivity, some traffic will divert
onto the local street network, but these impacts can
generally be mitigated.

Cons: Street connectivity can increase the linear feet
of roads per acre which may increase costs. These
cost increases may be offset by changes to street
width (enabled by a more efficient street system
derived by connectivity) or increases in development
intensity.
Connected local streets can see higher traffic volumes
compared to poorly connected local streets. Without
efforts to reduce the design speed for traffic, highly
connected local streets can be less safe than poorly
connected streets. However, the poorly connected
streets are less likely to be used for walking in the first
place because they increase travel distances.

Next Steps (further exploration to
initial implementation)
The TLC program offers assistance to local
governments interested in addressing street and trail
connectivity through transportation planning.
First-/Last-Mile Rebuilding American Infrastructure
with Sustainability and Equity (RAISE) grant.
Transportation partners and local governments will be
pursuing a Federal RAISE grant to fund transportation
improvements that reduce barriers for the first-/
last-mile to and from transit, Wasatch Choice Vision
Centers, and other major destinations. This effort will
build on a previous “First-/Last-Mile” Transportation
Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER)
grant from 2016.
Multi-modal grid analysis. Connectivity of local
streets is an area of interest for the next RTP
cycle. WFRC will work with local governments to
conduct a multi-modal grid analysis that will assess
opportunities for new connections and seek to
understand the regional benefits of such connections.

Tools and Resources
The Utah Street Connectivity Guide which is a
comprehensive resource for improving street
connectivity in communities. This guide also identifies
what street connectivity is, what the measured
benefits of street connectivity are, and Utah-specific
examples of how strategies can be implemented on
the ground.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 59 | Chapter 6: Optimization

Zero-Fare Transit
Rationale
Investing in a zero-fare transit system has been shown
to be one of the fastest ways to increase sustained
ridership for a lower cost than any other investment.
In the Wasatch Front Region, zero-fare transit has
been the focus of recent conversations as well as at
the state level.
UTA is the primary public transportation provider
within the Region, responsible for providing fixedroute bus, light rail, commuter rail, paratransit, ondemand, and vanpool service. UTA currently offers
zero-fare service within the downtown Salt Lake City
area and on some specific services like the Utah Valley
Express route. Following the positive reception of
the Fare-Free February pilot, in which fares on UTA
service were suspended for the month of February
2022, there has been increasing interest in evaluating
the potential impacts associated with various levels of
zero-fare transit service for the Region.

Benefits and Impacts
Pros - Fiscal Health: Zero-fare transit can have fiscal
benefits for transit agencies, such as reductions in fare
collection costs, lower operating cost per passenger,
and access to more stable funding. Long-term fiscal
health is almost always the first concern facing transit
agencies when considering zero-fare programs. The
impact of zero-fare transit on costs and revenues
varies widely depending on existing ridership, transit
agency size, alternate funding sources, and previous
fare systems.
Cons - Fiscal Health: Challenges finding replacement
revenue. Full zero-fare transit has proven more
viable for small- to mid-sized transit agencies than
for large transit agencies, as revenue from lower
farebox recovery rate-systems is more easily replaced.
For larger transit agencies where fare revenue is a
larger portion of operating revenues, considerable
replacement revenue would be required for the transit
agency to go full zero-fare without cutting service.
Finding replacement revenue is often cited as the
largest challenge to providing partial or full zero-fare
transit on a high-farebox recovery ratio transit system.

Pros - Improved mobility: Zero-fare transit almost
always causes an immediate increase in transit
ridership. Transit agencies that went zero-fare prior to
the COVID-19 pandemic saw an increase in fixed-route
ridership anywhere between 20 percent and over 100
percent in the first two years, especially among young
and low-income populations. Most transit agencies
that went partially zero-fare for select populations
did not see significant increases in ridership. Transit
agencies that piloted or implemented long-term zerofare transit following the COVID-19 pandemic have
also seen increased ridership up to 20 percent.
Pros - Greater access to opportunity: In many
instances, improved mobility from reducing financial
barriers to transit means greater access to school,
shopping, recreation, and healthcare for community
members.
Pros - Advancing social equity outcomes: Zero-fare
transit is assumed to improve social equity outcomes,
as lower-income passengers save money they might
otherwise have spent on transit. Existing transit
subsidies, such as employer passes, often provide de
facto zero-fare transit to certain riders, many of whom
are higher-income. This is a less equitable outcome
where riders who can afford transit receive discounts,
and riders who may benefit more from zero-fare
transit do not have access to these discounts. Zerofare transit can reduce this inequity.
Pros - Environmental and quality of life
improvements: Mode shift to transit that occurs from
free fare transit reduces carbon emissions, reduces
traffic congestion, and improves air quality.
Pros - Redirected spending: Although zero-fare
transit reduces or eliminates fare revenue to a
transit agency, the money passengers save is likely
circulated elsewhere in the community, potentially
increasing its impact.
Cons - Service trade-offs: Reduced revenue of a
zero-fare system could result in reduced quality of
transit services hours. Eliminating fare revenue could
cause service cuts, which may significantly negatively
impact transit riders’ mobility.
There is general fairness in expecting a recipient to
pay for some of the cost of what they benefit from.

Fares also provide a mechanism for employer and
institutional support for transit agencies through
pass programs.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 60 | Chapter 6: Optimization

Next Steps (further exploration to
initial implementation)
Zero-fare transit is being studied by a partnership of
WFRC, MAG, UDOT, and UTA. The study is exploring
four options: zero-fare, partial zero-fare, and other
fare structure alternatives. In addition, Governor Cox
included a one-year, statewide zero-fare pilot program
in his fiscal year 2024 proposed budget. It did not
receive one-time funding in the 2023 Legislative
Session.

Tools and Resources
»
»

Fare-Free Transit Evaluation Framework, TCRP
Research Report 237
Regional Zero-Fare Transit Study

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 61 | Chapter 6: Optimization

7

ENHANCEMENT IN
THE PREFERRED
SCENARIO
In addition to policies that can help optimize the transportation system,
the 2023-2050 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) includes enhancements
to infrastructure for roadways, transit, and active transportation. Each
project in the 2023-2050 RTP went through a process of ensuring project
need, prioritizing that need, and vetting through transportation agencies,
stakeholders, and the public.

Project Selection Criteria
The Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) created project selection criteria
for roadway, transit, and active transportation projects, in close collaboration
with transportation partners and local communities, to craft a preferred
regional vision. These criteria used the adopted goals, as well as a variety of
performance factors, to evaluate which improvements should be included as
part of the Wasatch Choice Vision. WFRC refined the 2023-2050 RTP project
selection criteria in partnership with the Utah Department of Transportation
(UDOT) and the Utah Transit Authority (UTA), local planners and engineers,
the Active Transportation Committee (ATC), and the Regional Growth
Committee (RGC).
The 2019-2050 RTP roadway, transit, and active transportation projects,
including amendments, served as the foundation for the 2023-2050 RTP.
Projects were removed from these original lists if they were completed or
anticipated to be under construction by May of 2023.

Roadway
To develop the preferred roadway scenario, there was a three-step roadway
project selection process, conducted in close collaboration with UDOT.
1

Stakeholder feedback was reviewed. Feedback considered
information from the RGC and RGC and Transportation Coordinating
Committee (TransCom) Technical Advisory Committee (TACs);
comments received from External Forces and Policies Peer and
Technical Groups; small area workshops, including online map
comments; coordination with UDOT, UTA, and Mountainland
Association of Governments (MAG); and feedback gathered
from stakeholder meetings. This feedback informed
WFRC on which projects support livable and healthy
communities, transportation choices, and fiscally

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 62 | Chapter 7: Enhancement

2

3

efficient communities and infrastructure
goals, projects that may have already been
constructed or will be constructed by 2023, as
well as those projects that are not needed or
desired by the year 2050.
Technical evaluation using measures based
on the Wasatch Choice Vision goals, and
influenced by federal goals and performance
measures, was conducted. Proposed roadway
projects undergo a robust technical evaluation
process which must meet at least one of the
six factors which determine project need and
whether a project is included within the RTP.
The technical evaluation utilized screening
criteria to include projects that a) mitigate
safety issues; b) meet volume thresholds
for additional lanes or is identified through
the congestion management process as
a project; c) improve the operations of a
roadway without increasing through capacity;
d) improves the freight network and prioritizes
needs for improving and facilitating the
movement of goods; e) preserves a corridor;
and/or f) improves network connectivity.
Consideration and incorporation of relevant
planning efforts such as the Southwest
Salt Lake County Transportation Solutions
Study, the Point of the Mountain Study,
Transportation Investment Fund (TIF),
Transportation Improvement Program (TIP),
environmental reviews, multi-modal reviews,
transportation master plans, and other
planning analyses.

See Appendix E: Preferred Scenario Project Selection
Criteria for further details on roadway project selection,
including volume thresholds for additional lanes.

Transit
To develop the preferred transit scenario, a three-step
project selection process occurred as follows in close
collaboration with UTA.
1

Stakeholder feedback was reviewed. Feedback
considered information from the RGC and
RGC and TransCom TACs; comments received
from External Forces and Policies Peer and
Technical Groups; small area workshops,
including online map comments; coordination
with UDOT, UTA, and MAG; and feedback
gathered from stakeholder meetings. This
feedback informed WFRC on which projects
support livable and healthy communities,
transportation choices, and fiscally efficient

2

3

communities and infrastructure goals, projects
that may have already been constructed or
will be constructed by 2023, as well as those
projects that are not needed or desired by the
year 2050.
Technical evaluation first utilized screening
criteria to include projects that a) are
considered in municipal planning documents,
are part of an environmental study, or have
preserved right-of-way (ROW) and/or b) yield
established ridership thresholds. Projects
that did not meet this first screening were
evaluated through a set of goal-based
performance measures, in order to include
transit projects that help achieve regional
planning objectives, such as improving access
to opportunity, serving Equity Focus Areas
(EFA), and connecting to Wasatch Choice
Vision centers. Projects were also screened
to remove any with potential significant
environmental impacts.
Consideration and incorporation of relevant
efforts such as ensuring alignment with
centers and noting corridors with overlapping
road and active transportation projects;
incorporating findings from other efforts such
as the Local Link Transit Study, the Point of
the Mountain, and small area studies; and
incorporating alignments and operating
characteristics that are defined from existing/
ongoing environmental analyses.

See Appendix E: Preferred Scenario Project Selection
Criteria for further details on transit project selection,
including ridership thresholds.

Active Transportation
The active transportation analysis followed a threestep process to determine which projects should be
included in the 2023-2050 RTP.
1

Stakeholder feedback was reviewed. Feedback
considered information from the RGC and RGC
and TransCom TACs; comments received from
External Forces and Policies Peer and Technical
Groups; small area workshops, including online
map comments; coordination with UDOT,
UTA, and MAG; and feedback gathered from
stakeholder meetings. This feedback informed
WFRC on which projects support livable
and healthy communities, transportation
choices, and fiscally efficient communities and
infrastructure goals, projects that may have
already been constructed or will be constructed

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 63 | Chapter 7: Enhancement

2

3

by 2023, as well as those projects that are not
needed or desired by the year 2050.
Technical evaluation first looked at 2019-2050
RTP active transportation projects, including
amendments, which served as the foundation
for the 2023-2050 RTP. Projects were removed
from this original list if they were completed or
anticipated to be under construction by May
of 2023. Projects may also have been modified
by combining two projects together based
on a shared facility type and extent. At times,
one project was split into two, depending on
relationships with RTP road projects.
Consideration and incorporation of relevant
efforts such as the Hooper General Plan and
West Weber County General Plan updates, as
well as active transportation plans completed
after the adoption of the 2019-2050 RTP
such as the Midvalley Active Transportation
Plan (Holladay, Millcreek, Murray, Taylorsville,
Midvale, and Cottonwood Heights), and plans
in Bountiful, Centerville, Clearfield, Clinton,
Farr West, Herriman, Riverdale, South Ogden,
South Salt Lake, Sunset, Syracuse, Washington
Terrace, West Point, and West Valley City.

See Appendix E: Preferred Scenario Project Selection
Criteria for further details on active transportation
project selection.

Transportation System
Improvements
Based on the input received and detailed analysis of
costs, mobility, transit use, and many other factors,
WFRC prepared a new growth and transportation
scenario known as the draft preferred scenario.
The preferred scenario formed the basis for the
recommended transportation improvements found in
the 2023–2050 RTP.

Roadway Improvements
The preferred roadway scenario in the 2023-2050
RTP includes a balance of freeway, highway, arterial,
and collector projects. These projects add needed
connectivity, capacity, and operational improvements
throughout the Region. Not all of the projects
recommended for construction by 2050 can be met
by the 2023-2050 RTP expected revenues. More
information about fiscal constraints is contained

within the Prioritize section. Project types, functional
classification, and ROW needs are described within
this section.

Roadway Project Types
Corridor preservation projects preserve a corridor
for future roadway construction through purchasing
property before major development occurs and/or as
property becomes available.
Grade-separated crossings physically separate the
roadway from a railroad or highway either through an
overpass or through an underpass.
Interchange improvements redesign an interchange
to improve traffic operations. The redesign could
include realignment of ramps, additional ramps, or
redesign of at-grade intersections.
New construction projects are new roadways or
interchanges where a roadway or interchange does
not currently exist.
Operational projects are enhancements to improve
the operations of a roadway without adding physical
capacity. These projects may include signal timing
optimization, access management, or ramp metering.
Re-stripe projects add lanes to a roadway without
adding new pavement or ROW by re-striping the
existing pavement.
Widening projects increase the number of lanes of
an existing roadway. Sometimes this widening can
occur in existing ROW, while other times additional
ROW may need to be purchased to accommodate the
widening project.

Roadway Functional Classification
The roadway system is composed of a variety of
roads that serve different purposes and balance
speed and access. Map 4 shows the Region’s
functional classification.
Freeways are the largest traffic facility. They are built
with complete control of access with high design
speeds and provide the greatest mobility for regional
traffic. Existing freeways with planned improvements
in the 2023-2050 RTP are I-15 operational and
widening improvements through Salt Lake, Davis,
and Weber Counties; I-80 widening and operational
improvements in Salt Lake County; I-215 operational
improvements in Salt Lake County; Legacy Parkway

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 64 | Chapter 7: Enhancement

Map 4. Roadway Functional Classification

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 65 | Chapter 7: Enhancement

widening in Davis County; and SR-201 widening in Salt
Lake County. There are also new freeways planned,
specifically the Mountain View Corridor in Salt Lake
County. Bangerter Highway in Salt Lake County is also
planned to be finished being converted to a freeway.
In addition, collectors and distributors are planned
along I-15 and Bangerter Highway and frontage roads
are planned along I-15 and I-215. There are 365 miles of
freeway projects planned.
Principal arterials serve the major centers of activity
of a metropolitan area, providing a high degree of
mobility. There are 245 miles of principal arterials
planned to be constructed or improved. Some of the
principal arterials that have operational or widening
improvements planned in the 2023-2050 RTP include
US-89 in Box Elder County, Harrison Boulevard in
Weber County, Antelope Drive in Davis County, and
9000 South in Salt Lake County. The extension of
West Weber Corridor in Weber County and Highland
Drive in Salt Lake County are two of the new principal
arterials planned.
Minor arterials interconnect with and augment
the urban principal arterial system and provide for
trips of moderate length at a somewhat lower level
of travel mobility than principal arterials. These
facilities place more emphasis on access to adjoining
or nearby land use than freeway or major arterials,
and offer movement within communities. Roadway
facilities that will be constructed or improved include
approximately 179 miles of minor arterials. There
are a number of new or extensions of minor arterials
included in the 2023-2050 RTP such as South Bench
Drive in Davis County, 1200 West in Box Elder County,
7200 West in Salt Lake County, and Monroe Boulevard
in Weber County. Existing minor arterials with planned
improvements include Hill Field Road in Davis County,
Fort Union Boulevard in Salt Lake County, and 24th
Street in Weber County.
Collector streets provide for both land access
and movement for local traffic within residential,
commercial, and industrial areas. Collectors can
penetrate neighborhoods distributing trips from
arterial streets through developed areas to ultimate
destinations. Conversely, collector roads can also
be expected to collect traffic from local streets
and channel it onto the arterial system. Most
improvements to collector streets in the 20232050 RTP are new construction or operational
improvements. There are 266 miles of collectors
planned to be constructed or improved. Examples
include extending Perry Street in Box Elder County,
900 East in Salt Lake County, and constructing the
remainder of Skyline Drive in Weber County.

Transit Improvements
A variety of transit system improvements and
accompanying types of modes and technologies are
included in the 2023-2050 RTP. A description of these
transit modes and examples of these projects found in
the 2023-2050 RTP are found in this section.

Transit Service Types
Core routes are frequent bus services that run seven
days a week and, on most days, run every 15 minutes
or better from early morning to late evening. These
routes will often have increased amenities at bus
stops, particularly in locations of high ridership and/
or frequent transfers. The creation of a network of
connected high-frequency Core Routes facilitates
improved connections via transit throughout the
Region. The routes generally operate in mixed traffic
but are planned to include capital investment in the
form of infrastructure and technology improvements
to improve travel times while maintaining reliability.
Examples of corridors supporting this service found
in the 2023-2050 RTP include Salt Lake County’s
State Street, Redwood Road, 3300/3500 South,
12300/12600 South, Davis County Main and State
Streets, and Weber County’s Washington Boulevard
and Riverdale Road.
Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) service is a high frequency
bus line that runs in dedicated median or curbrunning transit only lanes for a majority of its route.
BRT service typically operates at a minimum of
ten-minute headways, with peak period headways
being six minutes, and buses stop along the route
less frequently than core routes (about ½-mile stop
spacing). Amenities could include enhanced stations,
off-board fare collection, prominent brands or identity,
and operational improvements such as intersection
treatments and signal prioritization.
Examples of BRT projects found in the 2023-2050 RTP
include the Point of the Mountain area to connect the
Draper Prison Site to the TRAX Blue Line, the Draper
FrontRunner Station, and points north and south.
Transportation partners are currently evaluating the
mode(s) and alignment(s) for the transit investment
that will best catalyze economic development
opportunities in the area, as well as provide regional
connectivity and mobility. The alignments shown for
this project in the 2023-2050 RTP are illustrative at
this point in the process. State Street BRT in Salt Lake
City, South Salt Lake City, Murray, and Midvale, and the
Midvalley Connector in Murray, Taylorsville, and West
Valley City are other projects in the RTP.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 66 | Chapter 7: Enhancement

Streetcar provides local train service at slow speeds
(about 15 miles per hour). Streetcars have smaller,
single-car vehicles and run on tracks embedded in
the street that are powered by an electric overhead
catenary system. Streetcars typically share the
automobile travel lane and provide neighborhood
access by stopping frequently and operating in the
outermost travel lane adjacent to the sidewalk.
Examples of Streetcar projects found in the 2023-2050
RTP include the S-Line extension to Highland Drive
and the SLC Downtown Streetcar.
Light rail provides high-capacity electric train service,
typically operating within a compact urban center or
utilized to connect centers in a region. Light rail systems
often link multiple train cars and operate in its own
median or curb-running ROW, and stop less frequently
than buses (one-or-more-mile station spacing).
Capacity improvements to the existing Salt Lake
City TRAX system are contemplated, including
an additional TRAX line from the Salt Lake City
International Airport to the University of Utah and
Research Park, and a north-south line reconfiguration.
Commuter Rail is a high-capacity regional rail service
that links urban and suburban centers. Commuter
rail links multiple train cars and station spacing is the
longest of all types of transit service (five or more
miles), with connections to other modes at stations.
The 2023-2050 RTP calls for double-tracking
FrontRunner, the Region’s commuter rail line, which
is the first critical step needed to improve service
frequencies on the line. Electrification of the rail
is an operational improvement that would allow
for increased frequencies and would increase the
efficiency of the system.
Gondola (this reflects the current status of the
federally mandated Environmental Impact Statement
(EIS) process; if that process ultimately results in a
modified approach, the RTP will be changed to reflect
that modified approach) is a means of cable transport
and type of aerial lift which is supported and propelled
by cables from above.
Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) refers to
electronic applications that aid in the management of
transit facilities, such as vehicles and parking garages,
and that provide traveler information in real time with
which their behavior can be influenced or their trip can
be more pleasant. Potential benefits include better
preventative maintenance, more rapid response to
vehicle breakdowns, direction to available parking
spaces, or real time vehicle arrival information.

These types of improvements are planned to be
implemented with relevant transit modes in the
2023–2050 RTP.
Innovative mobility solutions is a broad term
referring to emerging trends and technologies
that impact transportation patterns and behavior.
Examples of these could be Transportation Network
Companies (TNCs) (i.e. ride-hailing services such
as Uber and Lyft), bike and scooter share programs,
and autonomous vehicles. WFRC supports cities,
counties, UTA, and UDOT as they work to support and
further these efforts. One such effort underway is a
“Mobility as a Service” program that would combine
access to multiple transportation options on one
mobile application, allowing for seamless trip planning
and payment options all in one place. Users would be
able to access the application on their smartphone,
which will show the various transportation options
(transit, bikeshare, ride hailing, etc.) available to them.
UTA has launched their UTA On-Demand service with
Via that operates similarly to Uber and Lyft and costs
as much as a transit pass. The 2023-2050 RTP does
not allocate assumed funding to these programs, but
considers their use in the planning process.
Programmatic line items are any other transportation
investments included in the 2023-2050 RTP that are
not associated with a specific project. An example of
a programmatic line item is an increase in local bus
service broadly across a service area. The planned
investment does not identify a specific corridor or city,
but allocates assumed funding for local bus service
enhancements on a broader geographic level.

Transit Point Projects
Point projects in the 2023–2050 RTP include parkand-ride lots, transit hubs, maintenance facilities, and
fixed-guideway infill stations.
Park-and-ride lots are lots located in peripheral areas
and are utilized by commuters to leave their vehicles and
transfer to a bus, commuter rail, or other transit service.
Transit hubs are points for passengers to transfer
between transit services, and should be located in
central nodes of activity to maximize efficiency. Hubs
should have restroom facilities and shelters.
Maintenance facilities are storage and maintenance
facilities for bus fleets. Facilities are used by transit
operators and technicians to keep transit vehicles in a
state of good repair.
Infill stations are new fixed-guideway stations that
are located on existing rail lines.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 67 | Chapter 7: Enhancement

In August of 2021, UTA adopted a standard operating
procedure (SOP) for infill stations. The SOP defines
evaluation criteria and procedures to be used when
considering a request to add a new station between
two existing stations on an existing corridor for
commuter rail transit (FrontRunner), light rail transit
(TRAX), and BRT. Please contact UTA Planning for
additional details.

Transit Mode Selection Process
In the 2023-2050 RTP an iterative process was
developed to determine appropriate transit
service and capital investments within regional
corridors. The primary objective of this process
was to determine thresholds for levels of transit
investments ranging from core routes to light
rail. It should be noted that the 2023-2050 RTP
process establishes a vision for transit corridors but
assumes that transit modes and alignments can and
will change over time, depending on the land use
mix, building patterns and densities, community
objectives, and funding availability. The following is a
summary of the transit mode selection process.
Transit System and Corridor Evaluation
1
2
3

Utilize chosen transit corridors as developed
through the Project Selection process.
All transit routes were then tested on the
updated Travel Demand Model (TDM) with
their assigned mode.
Route-level ridership was then evaluated
by utilizing daily boardings per mile (DBM)
outputs from the TDM. 15-minute core route
service was the mode assigned for routes with
200-400 DBM. 10-minute core route service
was the mode assigned for routes with 400-

Table 9. Transit Mode Ridership
Thresholds
TRANSIT MODE
Core Route
15-Minute Service

WEEKDAY RIDERS, 2050
FORECAST
200-400 DBM

Core Route
400-800 DBM & 50 percent
10-Minute Service increase in ridership over
15-minute service

800 DBM. BRT service was the mode assigned
for routes with 800-1,000 DBM. Streetcar and
Light Rail services were assigned for routes
with 1,000 or more DBM.
Table 9 describes the 2050 ridership forecasts
(DBM) that have been utilized for mode
assignments per project.

Active Transportation
Improvements
The preferred active transportation scenario
was arrived at through coordination with local
municipalities through RGC TACs for the Salt Lake
City-West Valley City and Ogden-Layton Urbanized
Areas and the small area workshops. Transportation
partners at UTA and UDOT Regions 1 and 2 have
collaborated throughout the process, as well as WFRC
ATC, and Davis County ATC. Specific meetings were
also held with Bike Utah, Parley’s Rails, Trails, and
Tunnels Coalition, and Trails Foundation of Northern
Utah. General public outreach was conducted via
an online interactive map where comments could
be made on individual projects. The preferred
active transportation scenario focuses on regional
connectivity, including connections to transit,
supported by underlying local active transportation
networks. This means overcoming first-/last-mile
barriers to transit and filling gaps in the regional
network. Identification of appropriate facility type
based on vehicular speeds, volumes, and local
land use context is also a major component of the
preferred scenario.
User safety and comfort is largely tied to the level
of physical separation from vehicles. Facilities such
as shoulder bikeways, shared lanes, bike lanes, and
buffered bike lanes are less comfortable for a novice
user, while facilities such as protected bike lanes,
shared use paths, sidepaths, and trails are more

Table 10. Regional Bicycle Plan Project
Summary
PROJECT TYPE

AMOUNT

Point Projects

104 projects

Bus Rapid Transit

800-1,000 DBM

Less Comfortable Facility Miles

616 miles

Streetcar

1,000 or more DBM

More Comfortable Facility Miles

609 miles

Light Rail

1,000 or more DBM

Total Miles

1,225 miles

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 68 | Chapter 7: Enhancement

comfortable. While identifying more comfortable
facilities is the preferred outcome, less comfortable
facilities are used when limitations, such as limited
ROW, are present. As shown in Table 10, total project
miles are split fairly evenly between less and more
comfortable facilities. Point projects are intersections
or other major obstacle crossings that facilitate safe,
convenient travel by foot or bicycle.

Shared-use paths are paved, off-roadway, separated
facilities that allow bicycle, pedestrian, and other nonvehicular uses. User comfort levels are typically high
due to the absence of vehicular friction.

It should be noted that the 2023-2050 RTP does not
reflect sidewalk needs within the Region.

Sidepaths are shared-use paths immediately adjacent
to a roadway.

Active Transportation Facility Types

Trails are soft surface paths typically used for
recreational cycling purposes.

Bike lanes are designated space on the roadway for
the use of cyclists distinguished through pavement
markings and signage, typically adjacent to vehicular
travel lanes. Bicycle travel usually follows the
directional flow of adjacent vehicle traffic.
Buffered bike lanes are bike lanes with increased
distance between the vehicular travel lane and
bike lane but are still located on the roadway. The
increased distance, or “buffer,” is typically designated
through pavement markings indicating a “no-use
zone” or something similar.
Bike boulevards, or neighborhood byways, are where
vehicular volumes and speeds are low enough and
speed control measures are in place so that cyclists
feel comfortable riding in the roadway, without the
need for a specific area in which to operate. Bike
boulevards may have pavement markings and upright
signage to identify them.
Future study needed are areas where a corridor
is in need of a bicycle facility, but the scope of
recent planning efforts was not able to identify an
appropriate facility.
Phased implementation is when a project’s ultimate
build out is not realized at once, but rather goes
through different iterations based on other projects,
redevelopment, funding, etc.
Protected bike lanes, also known as cycle tracks,
denote a level of physical protection and separation
beyond painted markings between the bike lane and
vehicle travel lanes. This separation can be raised
curbs, bollards, or even parked vehicles, and offers
greater comfort and safety for users.
Shared lanes are facilities where bikes and vehicles
share the same space on the roadway shown by
pavement markings and signage, but differ from bike
boulevards in that vehicular speeds and volumes may
not be low.

Shoulder bikeways are paved roadway shoulders that
can be used by cyclists, but not set aside exclusively
for bicycle use.

At-grade crossings are intersections of a bicycle/
pedestrian facility with a roadway, railroad track, etc. at
the same grade where potential user conflicts between
vehicles and bicyclists/pedestrians must be negotiated.
Overhead crossings are intersections of a bicycle/
pedestrian facility with a roadway, railroad track,
etc, where the bicycle/pedestrian facility crosses
above the grade of the roadway, railroad track, etc.
and avoids potential conflicts between vehicles and
bicyclists/pedestrians.
Underground crossings are intersections of a bicycle/
pedestrian facility with a roadway, railroad track,
etc. where the bicycle/pedestrian facility crosses
under the grade of the roadway, railroad track, etc.
and avoids potential conflicts between vehicles and
bicyclists/pedestrians.
Grade-separated crossings are either overhead or
underground crossings but the ultimate decision on
which type of crossing is yet to be determined.
Facility types are identified project by project on
the online interactive map. However, the planned
active transportation solution on a given roadway
may evolve over time. During project development,
context sensitive solutions will be considered to
build out the preferred solution. Further jurisdiction
coordination, deployment of interim designs, or
phased implementation may be necessary until
complete redesign or reconstruction of the roadway
and active transportation facility occurs, and/or
additional ROW can be acquired. Active transportation
projects were selected for the 2023-2050 RTP
preferred scenario in a number of ways, including
the 2019-2050 RTP, new and updated local active
transportation plans, other relevant local plans, and
various partner outreach efforts. More information
about project selection can be found in Appendix E:
Project Selection Criteria.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 69 | Chapter 7: Enhancement

PRIORITIZE

Our Regional transportation system has real
impacts on the lives of Utahns.
Here’s one story:

JORDON
Jordon is a Utah native who resides in South
Weber in Davis County with her two children
and husband. Her family has lived in South
Weber for three generations. They have two
vehicles that they rely on regularly to run
errands, meet up with friends, travel to see
family, and ferry the kids around to activities.
Her husband works at a car dealership,
emphasizing just how important vehicles are
to her family. During the week, Jordon uses
her SUV to commute into work, taking US89 or I-15 to travel to her office at a public
agency in Salt Lake City. On the weekends,
you can find her and family taking a hike and
enjoying nature in one of the local parks, or
driving over to the local gym to work out.
Her car gives her the freedom and flexibility
that a mom of two kids demands, and is
grateful for the smart expansion of roadway
infrastructure (like Legacy Parkway) that
makes it easy to stay on the move in
our growing Region.

8

ASSESS FISCAL
CONSIDERATIONS
Federal regulations require long-range transportation plans developed by
metropolitan planning organizations (MPOs) include a financial plan to
demonstrate how recommended roadway and transit facility improvements
would be funded. Long-range plans must also be “fiscally constrained,”
meaning that only those new facilities and recommended improvements
which could be funded using existing and reasonably anticipated revenue
streams are to be included in MPO long-range transportation plans. The
purpose of these requirements is to ensure that planned improvements
included in the 2023-2050 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) can reasonably
be assumed to be funded and that air quality benefits assumed with the
implementation of the RTP are realistic.
Projects that are needed but are not able to be funded with existing or
reasonably anticipated revenue streams can be included as part of a regional
long-range transportation plan as “unfunded.” The 2023-2050 RTP includes a
number of unfunded projects that are not covered by current funding sources
identified in this financial plan. However, if prospective regional funding sources
can be identified to pay for these projects in the future, they will then be
included as part of future regional transportation plans.
Potential funding sources for the 2023-2050 RTP are summarized in
this section, with more detailed information about these sources and
expenditures contained within Appendix F: Revenue and Cost Assumptions.
Cost estimates not only include the amount of funding that will be required
to pay for each improvement project, but also the operation, maintenance,
and preservation of the existing and future transportation network.

Overview of Revenue Sources & Assumptions
Revenue sources and assumptions for the 2023-2050 RTP are based
on coordination between the Utah MPOs (Cache MPO, Dixie MPO, and
MAG), the Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC), the Utah Department
of Transportation (UDOT), and the Utah Transit Authority (UTA). This
coordination leads to a joint Utah’s Unified Transportation Plan (Unified
Plan) financial model that includes estimates of potential revenues based on
projected sources for transportation improvements through the year 2050 and
is used by each agency when fiscally constraining their respective plans. A
more detailed description of potential federal, state, and local revenue
sources for the 2023-2050 RTP has been provided in Appendix G:
Potential Federal, State, and Local Revenue Sources.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 72 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

Roadway Revenue Sources
WFRC assumed that federal, state, and local
government revenues will be available for the
recommended roadway improvements in the 20232050 RTP. Separate estimates have been made
for funds available for state roadways and local
government roadways.
Revenue sources were estimated using available data
such as tax revenues, federal grants, registration
fees, and current expenditures and then grown
based on historic trends. More information about
these assumptions and growth rates can be found in
Appendix F: Revenue and Cost Assumptions.
Revenue sources for state road estimates include
both federal and state funds, such as motor fuel
taxes, special fuel taxes, vehicle registration, and the
Transportation Investment Fund (TIF). The TIF is the
main source of funding for state-owned, capacityincreasing roadway projects and is mostly funded
using a portion of auto-related Utah State sales tax
(approximately 17 percent of Utah State sales tax) plus
an additional three percent of State sales tax.
For local roads of regional significance, the main
sources of revenue available for projects are:
»

»
»
»
»

Federal funds allocated for the Ogden–Layton
and Salt Lake City–West Valley City Urbanized
Areas Surface Transportation Program (STP),
Congestion Mitigation Air Quality Program
(CMAQ), and Carbon Reduction Program (CRP);
Class B and C funds from Utah State roadway
user revenues, mostly motor fuel tax,
designated for counties and municipalities;
Local entity general funds;
Local vehicle registration fee; and
Local option sales taxes.

Figure 16 shows the breakdown of existing and
assumed new roadway revenue assumptions for both
the state and local systems.

State Roadway Revenues
The Unified Plan Financial Model was developed with
estimates of projected revenues that will be available
to UDOT in WFRC Urbanized Areas for preservation,
capacity, and operations between 2023 and 2050.
These existing and assumed new revenues come from
federal and state transportation funds, as presented
on the following pages and shown in Table 11.

Figure 16. Roadway Revenue Sources
Other:
8.8%
Local Option
Sales Taxes:
16.0%

Roadway
User Fees:
27.8%

Federal
Funds:
10.8%

Transportation
Investment Fund:
36.6%

Federal Revenue
A number of federal transportation laws and
regulations establish guidelines for the use of
federal funds for roadway improvements sponsored
by UDOT. These programs include the National
Highway Performance, Surface Transportation Block
Grant, Highway Safety Improvement, and Bridge
Replacement programs. WFRC’s Urbanized Area is
expected to receive approximately $2.430 billion in
current dollars for UDOT federal expenditures related
to preservation and other non-capacity programs and
$237 million in capacity programs.

State Revenue
Revenues provided by the State of Utah for
transportation are generated through roadway user
fees, such as fuel taxes, registrations, and permits,
but also includes additional funding such as state
sales tax revenue, federal contracts and grants,
department collections, and investment income. The
Utah State Legislature has also programmed state
general funds to support UDOT projects. Revenue
was projected from each of the various sources listed
above based on historical growth rates. From these
sources, the State will generate approximately $5.148

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 73 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

Table 11. Projected UDOT Road Revenue for the WFRC Urbanized Area, 2023-2050
AMOUNT (IN CURRENT
DOLLARS)

SOURCE
Federal Revenue
UDOT federal expenditures related to preservation and other non-capacity projects

$2,430,000,000

UDOT federal expenditures related to capacity projects

$237,000,000

State Revenue
Roadway user funds

$5,148,000,000

Transportation Investment Fund (TIF)

$13,600,000,000

New Revenue

$844,000,000

Total Statewide Revenue Available

billion in current dollars, between 2023 and 2050 for
use in WFRC Urbanized Areas. It should be noted that
these funds will be used for preservation, capacity,
operations, and a variety of other uses.
The major source of funding for UDOT capacity projects
is the TIF. This fund receives 20 percent of the total
state sales tax, which is approximately equivalent to the
amount of transportation-related sales tax collected, as
well additional state sales tax revenue, gas tax revenue,
and registration fees. Although TIF is distributed
through a prioritization process, for the purposes of
the long-range planning process, MPOs assume TIF is
distributed based on population, vehicle miles traveled
(VMT), and historic distributions. It is expected TIF will
generate approximately $13.600 billion for use in WFRC
Urbanized Areas, in current dollars, from 2023 to 2050
for future transportation projects.
State revenue projections also assume future
increases in State of Utah motor fuel and special fuel
tax or equivalent. In 2015, the State of Utah passed
legislation that reformed the fuel tax from 24.5 cents
per gallon to a 12 percent tax on motor and special
(diesel) fuels. The conversion to a percentage tax
went into effect January 1, 2016 and equated to an
immediate 4.9 cents per gallon increase in the state
fuel tax, with potential growth over time as the price
of fuel rises. To limit price volatility, the rate the tax
is calculated has a floor set at $2.45 and a ceiling
set at $3.33 on the wholesale price of fuel. This rate
is recalculated annually based on the three-year
average of the wholesale price of fuel. The 2023–2050
RTP assumes the ceiling for fuel tax will rise at the
equivalent of ten cents per gallon of gasoline and
special fuel in the years 2034 and 2044. An increase
in vehicle registration fees is assumed in 2026, 2036,

$22,259,000,000

and 2046. These new revenues are estimated to
generate approximately $844 million statewide in
current dollars for WFRC Urbanized Areas. In the 2023
Legislative session, legislation changed to provide
temporary gas tax relief over the next few years, while
also establishing a 12.5 percent tax on the retail sale
of electricity at electric vehicle charging stations, and
increasing vehicle registration fees by seven dollars.
These changes to user fees will be incorporated into
the 2027-2050 RTP.
Over the last several decades, motor and special
fuel taxes have decreased in purchasing power due
to construction cost inflation and increasing fuel
efficiency. To help close this gap, the State of Utah
will begin testing a road usage charge (RUC) program
in 2020, with full implementation planned for 2030.
When initially implemented, RUC only applies to gas
hybrid, electric, and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles,
but may be expanded to more vehicle types as the
program matures. The RUC program allows users
to either pay a flat yearly rate or pay a fee based on
vehicle miles traveled. While the increases in motor
and special fuel taxes and vehicle registration fees
are assumed to occur for the purposes of revenue
estimation, sometimes an equivalent funding stream,
such as RUC, may actually be implemented.

Local Roadway Revenues
The main sources of local revenues for transportation
projects are:
»

Federal funds allocated for the Ogden–Layton
and Salt Lake City–West Valley City Urbanized
Areas STP, CMAQ, and CRP;

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 74 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

»

»
»
»
»

Existing and future Class B and C funds
from Utah State roadway user revenues
designated for counties and municipalities or
its equivalent;
Existing and future (2023, 2032, 2042) local
option sales taxes or its equivalent;
Existing and future (2026, 2036, 2046) local
option vehicle registration fees for corridor
preservation or its equivalent;
Allocations from the general funds of local
governments; and
Funding from private developers.

The following section describes the various funds that
are available to local municipalities within the Wasatch
Front Region.

Federal Revenue
WFRC administers federal spending programs to
fund roadway improvements in urban areas. These
programs are the Ogden–Layton and Salt Lake City–
West Valley City Urbanized Areas STP, CMAQ, and
CRP. These funds can be used for projects on the
state highway system and on local streets. Based
on past trends, the 2023–2050 RTP assumes that
approximately 60 percent of STP and CMAQ funds will
be used for state facilities and the other 40 percent
will be used for locally owned facilities of regional
significance. The STP funds, based on historical
trends, assumed 43 percent will be used for capacity
improvements, 28 percent for preservation costs,
and the remaining 29 percent for operations and
miscellaneous projects. The CMAQ funding, based
on historical trends, assumes all the funding will
be used for operations and other types of projects.
Approximately $1.108 billion is projected to be
available for STP and approximately $124 million is
projected to be available for CMAQ between 2023
and 2050 for the WFRC urban area, in current dollars.
In addition, there are other miscellaneous federal
revenues that are used for operations and other types
of projects and account for $114 million between 2023
and 2050.

Class B and C Revenue
Class B and C road funds are allocated from the
State’s roadway user fees revenue. Currently, 70
percent of the roadway user fees are directed to
UDOT and 30 percent are directed to the Class B and
C funds. These monies are then divided between
counties and municipalities based on a formula that
uses population and road miles for calculations. The

distribution of existing Class B and C funds assumed
85 percent for system preservation and 15 percent
for operations and other types of projects, with no
funds used towards capacity improvements. Although
the allocation formula may change in the future, the
current percentage was used for the projection of
funding from this category for the implementation of
the 2023–2050 RTP. Approximately $2.923 billion, in
current dollars, is projected to be generated between
2023 and 2050 for the WFRC urban area. Increases
in motor and special fuel taxes and state-imposed
vehicle registration fees are projected to generate an
additional $587 million for local communities between
2023 and 2050.

General Fund Revenue
Counties and municipalities along the Wasatch Front
program a significant amount of their general funds
for local road maintenance and improvements. Many
of these roads are part of the Region’s roadway
system. Current and past general fund spending on
regionally significant roadways was examined to
project future revenues. Local governments in the
Wasatch Front Urbanized Areas are projected to
spend about $2.809 billion on roadway improvements
between 2023-2050.

Local Option Sales Tax and Vehicle
Registration Revenue
At the local level, there are two additional funding
sources that locals have the option to enact: sales
taxes and vehicle registration fees.
The State Legislature has authorized the use of local
option sales taxes for both roadways and transit.
Currently, counties have the option to adopt four
quarter-cent (0.25 percent) sales taxes, with a fifth
fifth-cent (0.20 percent) authorized if a county
already has adopted the first four quarter-cent sales
tax. Local officials have not designated an amount or
percentage that will be spent on roadway or transit
projects, although each quarter may have specific
allowed uses. Table 12 provides information regarding
allocation and assumptions of the local option sales
tax. Existing and assumed new local option sales
taxes are expected to generate approximately $5.948
billion, in current dollars, between 2023 and 2050 for
the WFRC urban area.
Additionally, counties can impose a $10 vehicle
registration fee for corridor preservation for Utah
state and local roadways and transit facilities.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 75 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

Table 12. Local Sales Tax Allocation Assumptions

QUARTER

YEAR
ASSUMED

PLANNING-LEVEL PERCENTAGE OF THE
QUARTER
ROADWAY

TRANSIT

RATE
ROADWAY

TRANSIT

Box Elder County
1st & 2nd

Existing

0%

100%

0.00%

0.55%

3rd

2023

80%

20%

0.20%

0.05%

4th

2032

60%

40%

0.15%

0.10%

5th1

2042

0%

100%

0.00%

0.20%

Total

0.35%

0.90%

Davis County
1st & 2nd

Existing

0%

100%

0.00%

0.55%

3rd

Existing

80%

20%

0.20%

0.05%

4th

Existing

60%

40%

0.15%

0.10%

5th1

2023

0%

100%

0.00%

0.20%

6th

2032

60%

40%

0.15%

0.10%

7th

2042

60%

40%

0.15%

0.10%

Total

0.65%

1.10%

Salt Lake County
1st

Existing

0%

100%

0.00%

0.30%

2nd

Existing

25%

75%

0.0625%

0.1875%

3rd

Existing

20%

80%

0.05%

0.20%

4th

Existing

60%

40%

0.15%

0.10%

5th1

2023

0%

100%

0.00%

0.20%

6th

2032

60%

40%

0.15%

0.10%

7th

2042

60%

40%

0.15%

0.10%

Total

0.5625%

1.1875%

Weber County
1st & 2nd

Existing

0%

100%

0.00%

0.55%

3rd

Existing

80%

20%

0.20%

0.05%

4th

Existing

60%

40%

0.15%

0.10%

5th1

2023

0%

100%

0.00%

0.20%

6th

2032

60%

40%

0.15%

0.10%

7th

2042

60%

40%

0.15%

0.10%

Total

0.65%

1.10%

1. In the 2023 Legislative Session, modifications were made to 59-12-2220, the Utah State Code governing the use of the “fifth fifth.” These
modifications change the allowable uses of revenue, change how revenue is distributed to governing bodies, and remove the imposition
deadline. The 2023-2050 RTP assumes that the “fifth fifth” would help build and operate the transit projects in the plan. Future plans will
reflect updates as WFRC coordinates with the Counties and/or the “fifth fifth” is implemented.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 76 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

Existing local option vehicle registrations will
generate approximately $468 million in current
dollars. The local option vehicle registration fee is
assumed to be increased by $5 per vehicle in 2026,
2036, and 2046. The increase in local option vehicle
registration fees could generate approximately $367
million in current dollars.

Figure 17. Projected Local Roadway
Revenue
Locally Imposed Vehicle
Registration Fees: 5.6%
Other: 3.1%

Private Developer Funding
The 2023-2050 RTP assumes that private developer
funding will fund some new local road construction
as part of new developments. Roads that will be
constructed with private developer funding were
identified by local communities. It is estimated that
private developer funding will generate approximately
$462 million through 2050 for construction of local
roadways of regional significance.
Table 13 shows the projected local roadway revenues
between 2023 and 2050 in current dollars, while Figure
17 shows the percent each of the revenue sources
contributes to the total local roadway revenue.

Local Option
Sales Taxes:
39.9%

Federal
Funds:
9.0%

Class B & C
Program Funds:
23.5%
Local General
Fund
Contributions:
18.8%

Table 13. Projected Local Road Revenue for the WFRC Urbanized Area, 2023-2050
SOURCE

AMOUNT (IN CURRENT DOLLARS)

Regional and Local Revenue
Federal funds (STP, CMAQ, CRP)

$1,346,000,000

Existing Class B & C program funds

$2,923,000,000

New Class B & C program funds

$587,000,000

Local general funds contributions

$2,809,000,000

Existing local option sales taxes

$3,899,000,000

New local options sales taxes

$2,049,000,000

Existing locally imposed vehicle registration fees

$468,000,000

New locally imposed vehicle registration fees

$367,000,000

New private developer funding

$462,000,000

Total Regional and Local Revenue Available

$14,910,000,000

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 77 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

Transit Revenue Sources
WFRC assumes that federal, state, and local
government revenues will be available for the
recommended transit improvements in the 2023-2050
RTP. Revenue sources were estimated using available
data such as tax revenues, federal grants, and current
expenditures and then grown based on historic
trends. More information about these assumptions
and growth rates can be found in Appendix F: Revenue
and Cost Assumptions.
It is important to note that revenues sourced from
existing funding mechanisms are anticipated only
to cover the costs of operating, maintaining, and
administering the system as it exists today. The
proposed 2023–2050 RTP projects cannot be funded
with existing revenue streams and will require new
sources of revenue, such as the following:
»
»
»

»
»
»

Transit Transportation Investment Fund (TTIF);
Cottonwood Canyon Transportation
Investment Fund (CCTIF);
Future increases in local option sales taxes
or its equivalent for transportation projects
in Box Elder, Davis, Salt Lake, and Weber
Counties in 2023, 2032, and 2042;
Fares forecasted from the increased transit
ridership tied to transit investments proposed
in the 2023-2050 RTP;
Competitive federal grants awarded to
noteworthy projects; and
Increases in federal formula grants that are
tied in part to the proposed service increases.

Funding for new transit projects over the life of the
2023-2050 RTP totals $7.398 billion. These funds
are in addition to the $25.743 billion budget that is
currently forecasted in UTA’s Transit Financial Plan for
operating and maintaining the existing UTA transit
system in a state of good repair within the entire UTA
planning service area, including the WFRC planning
area and Tooele and Utah Counties, during the same
time frame. Table 14 shows the projected new transit
revenues from major sources between 2023 and 2050
in current dollars.
With the exception of federal formula grants, each
source will be discussed on this and the following
pages. All values are shown in current dollars unless
otherwise stated.

Transit Transportation Investment
Fund
The TTIF, is provided by the State of Utah for transit
capital projects statewide and prioritized by the state
Transportation Commission. These funds are subject
to legislative appropriation yearly and require a 30
percent local match.
Revenue amounts provided to the TTIF are determined
based on 35 percent of the increase in the amount
of tax revenue that is collected in the fiscal year on
motor and special fuels that exceeds 29.4 cents per
gallon. The State began transferring approximately $5
million in general funds to the TTIF for statewide use
beginning July 1, 2019 and annual contributions to the

Table 14. Projected Transit Revenue for the WFRC Urbanized Area, 2023-2050
SOURCE

AMOUNT (IN CURRENT DOLLARS)

Transit Revenue
Local option sales tax (or equivalent)

$3,774,000,000

Transit Transportation Investment Fund

$1,415,000,000

Passenger fares

$574,000,000

Federal competitive grants

$987,000,000

Federal formula funds

$136,000,000

One-time funds

$126,000,000

Cottonwood Canyon Transportation Investment Fund

$385,000,000

Total Regional and Local Revenue Available

$7,397,000,000

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 78 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

fund are expected to grow over time due to indexing
of the motor and special fuel taxes to the Consumer
Price Index (CPI) per House Bill 362. It is assumed the
TTIF will generate approximately $1.415 billion (in
current dollars), or 20.5 percent of assumed transit
revenues, between 2023 and 2050 for use in WFRC
Urbanized Areas.

Local Option Sales Tax Revenue
Future receipts from the increased local sales tax or
equivalent for this period are projected to be $3.774
billion, representing 54.8 percent of anticipated new
transit funding for the 2023–2050 RTP. In the recent
past, support for additional transit funding by local
governments, the business community, citizens, and
the Utah State Legislature have resulted in significant
new local option sales tax being approved for transit
expansion. As of January 2023, Davis, Salt Lake, and
Weber Counties have enacted all four local option
transportation sales tax “quarters.” By enacting all
four transportation “quarters,” these counties are
now eligible to impose a fifth “fifth” that would
provide a 0.20 percent sales tax increase for the
use of transit projects, as authorized by SB136. The
2023-2050 RTP assumes that Salt Lake, Weber, and
Davis Counties will impose this fifth “fifth” by the
year 2023, as well as a sixth and seventh “quarter”
in years 2032 and 2042, respectively. See Table 12
for sales tax assumptions by county split by mode.
These revenues are assumed to grow in line with
UTA forecasts for current sales tax revenues.

Fare Revenue
WFRC anticipates that 8.3 percent of revenues, or
$574 million, will be generated from passenger fares
which patrons will pay to use new transit services
over the life of the 2023-2050 RTP. Fare revenues
are estimated using ridership projections from the
Wasatch Front travel demand model (TDM) and
the historic trend of the average revenue per ride
collected by the agency.
Since 2013, UTA’s base fare has been $2.50 one-way,
but fares range from $1.25 for senior citizens up to
$11.50 for the longest premium service. Individual
base fares can be even lower in instances of pass
sales for corporate businesses or otherwise, in
which a large amount of passes are sold in bulk at
a discounted rate. The average revenue per ride
collected by the agency has ranged between $1.11
and $1.16 between 2016 and 2022. UTA’s most recent

passenger revenue accounting reported the agency
collected $31 million from 24 million passenger trips
in 2021.
UTA systemwide average weekday ridership dropped
significantly in the first month of the COVID-19
pandemic from about 160,000 to just under 50,000
riders. Ridership has rebounded and is currently over
100,000, but has not reached pre-pandemic levels
(as discussed in the Executive Summary). Since the
fare revenues are directly tied to ridership, this has
had an impact on the UTA annual budget. Regional
transportation agencies and others around the Region
worked together to understand the ridership and
financial impacts of a zero-fare system. Although a
zero-fare system would result in loss fare revenue, if a
sustainable revenue replacement was found, it would
strengthen UTA’s overall financial picture during times
of unpredictable ridership. A final report about zerofare transit was produced in January 2023.

Federal Competitive Grants
Federal competitive grants are applied for on a
nationwide basis and have traditionally paid between
50 and 80 percent of the capital costs of awarded
light rail, heavy rail, commuter rail, streetcar, and
bus rapid transit (BRT) projects. The award selection
process is guided by a rigorous planning process
and a set of selection criteria. The United States
Congress appropriates roughly $4.600 billion each
budget year for the New Starts, Small Starts, Core
Capacity, and Bundling programs.
WFRC anticipates that 2.0 percent of new revenues (or
$988 million) for the 2023-2050 RTP could come from
federal grants awarded to the following noteworthy
projects within the RTP planning horizon:
»
»
»
»
»

200 South BRT (Salt Lake City),
Davis-Salt Lake City Community Connector
Core Bus Route,
Mid-Valley Core Bus Route (Salt Lake County),
State Street Corridor BRT (Salt Lake County),
and
Double-tracking and electrifying FrontRunner.

Cottonwood Canyons
Transportation Investment Fund
The Cottonwood Canyons Transportation Investment
Fund (CCTIF), is provided by the State of Utah for
transportation or transit projects within Big or Little

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 79 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

Cottonwood Canyons in Salt Lake County. Revenue
amounts provided to the CCTIF are determined
based on a combined amount of the previous fiscal
year’s CCTIF deposit and 25 percent of the revenue
growth between the current fiscal year and the
previous fiscal year of the 17 percent of state sales
tax revenue deposited into the TIF that exceeds three
percent. Revenues deposited into the CCTIF reduce
the revenue available in the TIF. The annual maximum
combined amount for any single fiscal year is $20
million. The State began transferring revenues to
the CCTIF beginning in fiscal year 2020. The 20232050 RTP fiscal analysis assumes that the CCTIF
will generate approximately $385 million (in current
dollars) between 2019 and 2050 for use on projects
within the Cottonwood Canyons in Salt Lake County.

Figure 18. Projected Transit Revenue for
the WFRC Urbanized Area, 2023-2050
Passenger Fares: 7.8%
Federal Formula: 1.8%

Federal
CIG:
13.4%

Local Option
Sales Taxes:
51%

TTIF:
18.8%

Although CCTIF can be used for all transportation
modes, the 2023-2050 RTP assumes the CCTIF will be
used for transit.

One-Time Funds
The 2023-2050 RTP assumes that one-time funding
would be available to fund projects. It is estimated
that one-time funding will generate approximately
$126 million through 2050 for projects.
Table 14 shows the projected transit revenues
between 2023 and 2050 in current dollars, while
Figure 18 shows the percent each revenue source
contributes to the total projected transit revenue.

Active Transportation Revenue
Sources
The current funding climate for active transportation
includes both dedicated and non-dedicated revenue
streams. Recent years have seen increased focus on
biking and walking project funding, with help from
increases in federal funding from the Infrastructure
Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) and state funding.
Dedicated active transportation revenue sources in
the WFRC area projected through 2050 include the
following: Transportation Investment Fund - Active
(TIF-AT) at approximately $509 million; Transit
Transportation Investment Fund - First/Last Mile (TTIF
- F/LM) at approximately $74.5 million; Transportation
Alternatives Program (TAP) at approximately $102.4
million; and the Utah Safe Routes to School (SRTS)
Program which is approximately $39 million. A new

CCTIF: 5.2%
One-Time Funds: 1.7%

funding source as of 2023 is the Active Transportation
Investment Fund (ATIF) at approximately $45 million
per year statewide, which is a state funded program.
The funding is five percent of the TIF each year. Due to
the timing of the legislation authorizing this source of
funding, it has not been included in the financial model
for the 2023-2050 RTP but will be incorporated into
the 2027-2050 RTP.
Other potential revenue sources include Federal funds
through WFRC from the Ogden-Layton Urbanized and
Salt Lake City-West Valley City Urbanized Area STP and
CMAQ which together are projected at approximately
$81 million through 2050; one-time Federal assistance
grants such as Rebuilding American Infrastructure
with Sustainability and Equity (RAISE); one-time
appropriations from the state legislature; local-option
3rd Quarter sales tax available in Weber County, Davis
County, and Salt Lake County; local-option 4th Quarter
sales tax available in Weber County, Davis County, and
Salt Lake County; Utah Outdoor Recreation Grant;
State Highway Safety Fund; local entity general funds;
developer funding; and road projects that build active
transportation infrastructure as part of a project.
Unless otherwise noted, these additional sources are
projected to produce approximately $267 million in
revenue in the WFRC area through 2050.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 80 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

All together, it is assumed that there is $1.073 billion
for active transportation capacity projects between
2023 and 2050.

Bonding
Bonding can generally be used to accelerate the
implementation of larger projects. Bonding in longrange plans or for project construction is a financing
tool that allows funding to be available in earlier
phases or years. The general impact of bonding is that
upfront capital is moved forward and then paid over
time. The state’s transportation agencies discussed
and agreed to general planning level assumptions
behind the use of debt financing to pay for certain
amounts of capital. The efficiency of this borrowing
is based upon future projections of bonding rates
and inflation rates along with the states overall
bonding capacity. The assumptions for debt were
heavily influenced by the State’s historic use of debt
which has been limited to 15-year payoff timeframes.
Bonding in the 2023-2050 RTP is assumed as a 15-year
debt with a four percent rate.
The 2023-2050 RTP recommends incurring additional
debt and debt payments for state roads and transit. In
Phase 1, the RTP assumes an estimated $342 million
bond against TTIF revenues for transit capital projects
with a total debt repayment of about $342 million. In
Phase 2, the RTP assumes an estimated $260 million
bond against TIF revenues for state road capacity
with a total debt repayment of $233 million with an
outstanding debt of $26 million after 2050. In Phase
3, the RTP assumes an estimated $81 million bond
against CCTIF revenues for gondola (this reflects the
current status of the federally mandated EIS process; if
that process ultimately results in a modified approach,
the RTP will be changed to reflect that modified
approach) capital construction with a total debt
repayment of $26 million in the planning horizon of
the RTP with an outstanding debt of $55 million after
2050. Bonding incurred in Phases 2 and 3 will have
additional debt outstanding at the end of 2050.

Other Potential Funding
Sources
There are other potential funding sources that are
available to local communities for funding projects,
but that have not been included in revenue projections
for the 2023-2050 RTP. These funding sources may

apply on a project-by-project basis, and will require
strong coordination among relevant stakeholders.
Other potential funding sources include privatepublic partnerships, private funding, and/or value
capture strategies such as tax increment financing/
transportation reinvestment zones (TRZs). If these
sources become available, they could advance
projects by providing funding not yet available and/or
replacing public revenues.
For illustrative purposes, an example of a possible
application of value capture strategies might include a
multi-jurisdictional area such as Point of the Mountain
or the Inland Port, which have significant needs for
transportation infrastructure. In theory, by building
or improving transportation infrastructure in these
areas, additional property and sales tax revenues
could be generated - new development will be more
feasible and attractive to build due to the increased
access provided by the transportation infrastructure.
By identifying a portion of these areas as a Housing
and Transportation Reinvestment Zone (HTRZ) prior
to building the infrastructure, the affected cities
may establish a base tax year from which point the
land’s assessment value will be identified. As new
development occurs, the municipalities may capture
the value of the taxes generated from the base year
forward in order to fund said transportation projects.
HTRZs are currently being pursued in Sandy, South
Jordan, and Vineyard, Utah and many others are being
considered.

Project Cost Estimates
The RTP must be cost constrained. With the exception
of active transportation, only projects tied to
reasonable funding assumptions can be included in
the 2023-2050 RTP. Costs were estimated for roadway,
transit, and active transportation new construction
and transit operations and maintenance in order to
determine which projects could be included in each
of the 2023−2050 RTP’s three funded phases. The
costs for making needed improvements for roadways,
transit, and active transportation, as identified by
the 2023–2050 RTP, were analyzed by WFRC, UDOT,
UTA, and the other local MPOs. Costs include those
required to meet the specific system needs identified
in the 2023–2050 RTP, as well as cost estimates for
general administration, operations, maintenance, and
preservation of the existing transportation system.
Projected costs for roadway and active transportation
improvements have been adjusted at an annual four
percent inflation rate, while the projected costs for

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 81 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

transit construction have been adjusted at an annual
rate of 4.00 percent inflation rate, and operations and
maintenance have been adjusted at an annual 3.25
percent inflation rate, respectively.

Roadway
This section outlines costs for capacity and
operational improvements as estimated for individual
projects contained within the 2023-2050 RTP, as
well as roadway operations, maintenance, and
preservation costs needed for both the existing and
future systems.

Project Costs: Capacity and
Operational Improvements
For the purpose of the 2023-2050 RTP, UDOT has
estimated the current costs to purchase rightof-way (ROW), construct new roads and bridges,
restripe, improve interchanges, and make operational
improvements. Table 15 shows roadway unit costs per
project type. Roadway costs were initially estimated in
2023 dollars and then inflated to year of expenditure
dollars using a four percent annual growth rate. This
rate of inflation was derived from the national CPI and
agreed to by the state’s four MPOs, UDOT, and UTA.

Table 15. Roadway Unit Costs
TYPE

2023 COST

UNIT

Right-of-Way Costs
Right-of-Way

$16.34

per sq ft

Bridge Costs
Simple Bridge

$13,000,000

each

Complex Bridge

$32,000,000

each

System Interchange

$168,000,000

each

Simple Interchange

$50,000,000

each

Complex Interchange

$96,000,000

each

Interchange Upgrade

$22,000,000

each

$3,500,000

per mile

$20,000

per mile

Collector

$9,000,000

per mile

Arterial - Urban

$20,000,000

per mile

Arterial - Rural

$10,000,000

per mile

Expressway - Urban

$50,000,000

per mile

Expressway - Rural

$15,000,000

per mile

Freeway - Complex

$96,000,000

per mile

Freeway - Simple

$50,000,000

per mile

Freeway - Add a lane - Urban

$13,000,000

per mile

Freeway - Add a lane - Rural

$3,700,000

per mile

Spot Improvement Costs

Operational Costs
Operational
Restriping Costs
Restripe
New Construction/Widening Costs

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 82 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

All project costs are in current dollars unless otherwise
noted. The project list, Appendix H: 2023-2050 RTP
Phased Project Lists by Mode, provides planning-level
total costs for each project.

State Roadway Cost Estimates:
Operations, Maintenance,
Preservation, and Other
For purposes of the 2023–2050 RTP, UDOT has
estimated the current costs to operate, maintain and
preserve, and administer the Utah State roadway
system. In addition, through its asset management
program, UDOT has estimated the future level of
funding needed to maintain UDOT’s system. For
planning purposes, the Unified Plan assumes that
future construction projects will include system
maintenance and preservation.
UDOT’s asset management program, interstate
rehab, interstate preservation, National Highway
System (NHS) Rehab, NHS Preservation, Surface
Transportation Program Rehab, and STP Preservation
costs were identified using the current condition
of the roadway, maintenance and preservation
requirements, and other factors. Costs were based on
conditions of individual facilities and then summarized
by planning area. UDOT has identified various “other
costs” categories including pipe culvert replacement,
traffic signal maintenance, traffic management
replacement, barrier replacement, lighting, sign
modification, safety spot improvement, traffic signals
replacement, and maintenance spot improvement.
It is projected that $3.379 billion is needed for all
UDOT pavement needs, bridge maintenance and
replacement, and other expenditures related to
preservation in the WFRC Urbanized Areas between
2023 and 2050.
For operations, UDOT’s expenditures include
support services, engineering services, maintenance

management (operations), construction
management, Region management, equipment
management, aeronautics, share-the-road, B and C
distribution to cities and counties, safe sidewalks,
mineral lease, corridor preservation, toll way, counties
of the 1st and 2nd class, and highway projects within
counties. Transfers and diversions of UDOT funds
include sales of capital assets, transfers to and from
the TIF, and other transfers. These operations and
other expenses total $4.986 billion through 2050, in
current dollars for the WFRC Urbanized Area. For the
planning purposes of the 2023–2050 RTP, some of
these expenditures and transfers were not specifically
allocated to WFRC, but were kept at a statewide
level. The majority of these funds are simply passed
through to other state agencies or are not specific to
the Wasatch Front Region. Thus, they are more suited
to be kept at a statewide level.
Capacity needs and the selection process for projects
in the 2023–2050 RTP will be explained in more detail
in Chapter 9: Phase Projects, but total approximately
$17.320 billion for UDOT projects in the WFRC area.
Table 16 summarizes the amount of state roadway
expenditures projected from 2023 to 2050. The total
UDOT projected needs for the Wasatch Front Region
totals $25.685 billion.

Local Roadway Cost Estimates:
Operations, Maintenance,
Preservation, and Other
Estimates were made for municipalities and counties
with assistance from the Utah League of Cities and
Towns (ULCT), the Utah Association of Counties
(UAC), the Utah Foundation, and the Utah Local
Technical Assistance Program (Utah LTAP). These
assumptions are based on a survey of local agency
roadway expenses, various studies, and available data.
Growth and inflation assumptions were applied to
these cost totals for the period 2023 through 2050.

Table 16. Projected State Roadway Costs, 2023-2050
UDOT EXPENDITURES

AMOUNT (IN CURRENT
DOLLARS)

Roadway, bridge, and other preservation needs

$3,379,000,000

Operations and various needs

$4,986,000,000

Capacity needs

$17,320,000,000

Total UDOT costs

$25,685,000,000

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 83 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

Local roadway maintenance activities include
activities such as snow removal, sweeping, weed
control, crack sealing, and pothole repair. Pavement
preservation actions are surface treatments for
streets and highways, which are more extensive
than routine maintenance. These treatments range
from chip seal work to full reconstruction and major
resurfacing. It is estimated that during the period
2023–2050, local governments maintenance and
preservation needs will be approximately $7.331 billion
on maintenance and preservation activities.
Administration costs are expenditures associated
with managing transportation agencies and the
transportation divisions of larger local public works
departments. These costs include expenditures for
staff, planning activities, preliminary engineering, etc.
Traffic operations activity includes signing, marking,
and signal installation and maintenance. Safety
improvements include hazard elimination, intersection
upgrades, railroad crossing improvements, and
similar projects. It is estimated that these items will
cost about $1.407 billion between 2023 and 2050, in
current dollars.
Capacity needs and the selection process for projects
in the 2023–2050 RTP will be explained in more detail
in Chapter 9: Phase Projects, but total approximately
$6.409 billion for capacity projects on local roads
of regional significance in the WFRC area. Locally
classified road capacity needs will be approximately
$1.159 million by 2050. These total $7.568 billion of
local capacity needs.
Table 17 summarizes the amount of local roadway
expenditures projected from 2023 to 2050. The total
local projected needs for the Wasatch Front Region
totals $16.306 billion.
The total roadway projected needs for the Wasatch
Front Region totals $41.991 billion.

Transit
For purposes of the 2023–2050 RTP, UTA has
estimated the current costs to operate, maintain,
and preserve the UTA transit system based on the
agency’s experience building and operating the
existing transit system; cost estimates are updated
with every RTP cycle and include the latest studies
and/or construction experience when possible. Transit
costs in the 2023–2050 RTP were initially estimated in
2023 dollars and then inflated to year of expenditure
dollars using a four percent annual rate for capital
costs, a 3.25 percent annual rate for operating and
maintenance costs. This rate of inflation was derived
from the national CPI and is consistent with UTA’s
Transit Financial Plan that accounts for the existing
transit system. All project costs are represented in
current dollars unless otherwise stated.
This section will outline the total transit capital,
operating, and preservation needs, and then detail
transit cost assumptions on a per mile basis. Further
discussion of the difference between transit needs
and available revenues can be found in Chapter 9:
Phase Projects. The project list, located in Appendix
H: 2023-2050 RTP Phased Project Lists by Mode,
provides planning-level capital and operating
cost estimates for each project. A more detailed
breakdown of the unit costs is provided in Appendix
F: Revenue and Cost Assumptions.

Project Costs by Mode
Transit capital and operating costs are estimated on
a per mile basis, and include the cost of the transit
vehicles, ROW preservation, track or rail, stops and
stations, maintenance facilities, fuel, operator costs,
and the number of hours per day and days per week
that the transit service is assumed to run. Transit
capital and operating costs per mile are represented
in Table 18 in current dollars, and are utilized to

Table 17. Projected Local Roadway Costs, 2023-2050
LOCAL EXPENDITURES

AMOUNT (IN CURRENT DOLLARS)

Maintenance and preservation needs

$7,331,000,000

Administration/traffic operations and safety/other needs

$1,407,000,000

Capacity needs

$7,568,000,000

Total local roadway costs

$16,306,000,000

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 84 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

estimate total project costs based on the length of
the project. Project costs are then inflated to the
year of construction by an annual rate of four percent
for capital costs, 3.25 percent for operating and
maintenance costs when fiscally constraining the
2023-2050 RTP.
Transit Point Projects
Transit point projects in the 2023-2050 RTP
include park-and-ride lots, transit hubs, and vehicle
maintenance facilities or garages. The total cost of
point project construction is $384 million. Table 19
depicts planning-level point project costs for the
2023-2050 RTP. As with transit line projects, it is
assumed that these costs will become further refined
as they are studied and engineering work is complete
prior to implementation.

Project Costs: Capital, Operations, and
State of Good Repair
Capital Costs
Capital cost estimates include the construction of
stations, ROW, track or rail (when applicable), parking
lots, vehicles, vehicle maintenance facilities, and
operational investments associated with building new
transit lines. Also included in these costs are needed
point projects that have been identified to enhance
existing and planned new service, such as transit
hubs, maintenance facilities, and park and ride lots.
There is an estimated $6.587 billion in new capital
cost needs in the fiscally unconstrained 2023-2050
RTP, in current dollars.

Table 18. Estimated Planning-Level Transit Costs per Mile, 2023-2050
TRANSIT MODE
Core Route Services

CAPITAL COST AMOUNT (PER
MILE, IN CURRENT DOLLARS)

OPERATING COST AMOUNT
(PER MILE PER YEAR, IN
CURRENT DOLLARS)

$600,000 - $1,100,000*

$130,200 - $250,000*

Bus Rapid Transit

$23,600,000

$480,200

Streetcar

$57,800,000

$530,000

Light Rail

$70,600,000

$1,270,000

Commuter Rail

$34,700,000**

$590,000

Gondola***

$46,000,000***

$471,000***

* Cost varies depending on frequency of service
** Commuter rail capital costs vary depending on the type of investment. Cost estimates could include line upgrades such as electrification
or constriction of new rail. For more information regarding needed commuter rail investments, see the FrontRunner Forward Program.
***Total cost of the Gondola project broken down by mile from the UDOT LCC EIS (this reflects the current status of the federallymandated EIS process; if that process ultimately results in a modified approach, the RTP will be changed to reflect that modified approach)

Table 19. Estimated Planning-Level Transit Point Project Costs, 2023-2050
POINT PROJECT TYPE
Transit Hub
Park & Ride Lot (structured)
Maintenance Facility (bus)
Light Rail Station

COST PER PROJECT (IN CURRENT DOLLARS)
$17,500,000
$5,000,000-15,000,000
$17,000,000,000
$4,000,000

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 85 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

Operating Costs
Operating costs include the price to employ transit
service and is reflective of the length of the project
and the frequency and span of service (hours per day
and days per week) that is assumed. Frequencies and
service hours are generally assumed on a per mode
basis. Vehicle replacement is also accounted for in
the operating costs. It is estimated that it would cost
approximately $1.560 billion to operate the proposed
transit projects between 2023 and 2050, in current
dollars, and $23.784 billion to operate the existing
system through the planning horizon of the RTP.
State of Good Repair
State of good repair (SGR) refers to the maintenance,
overhaul, and replacement of assets such as rail,
bus, and rideshare vehicles, train control software
and hardware, railroad track and BRT lanes, railroad
crossings and bridges, bus shelters, and station
platforms. In order to receive federal transit funds,
transit agencies are required to develop an asset
management plan that accounts for the upkeep
and maintenance of the transit system’s assets. As
such, SGR is accounted for in the 2023–2050 RTP for
the management of future planned assets, and is
expected to be about $2.580 billion.
It should be noted that SGR for the existing transit
systems is not included in the 2023-2050 RTP, but
is planned and accounted for by UTA’s Budget and
Financial Department, and recorded annually in the
agency’s Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.
Administration, Safety, and Other Costs
Administration costs are expenditures associated
with managing transportation agencies and the
transportation divisions of larger local public works
departments. These costs include expenditures for
staff, planning activities, preliminary engineering,
etc. It is estimated that these items associated with
planned new transit projects will cost about $102
million between 2023 and 2050, in current dollars.

Table 20 summarizes the needed expenses associated
with transit capital, operation, and SGR costs
projected from existing and new projects within the
fiscally unconstrained 2023-2050 RTP, which total
$30.527 billion.
It is important to note that UTA allocates existing
revenue sources to pay for operating and maintaining
the existing transit system in a state of good repair.
Any expansion to the transit system, as identified as
transit projects in the 2023-2050 RTP, will be paid for
with new transit revenue sources. With $7,169 billion
of identified new projected revenues, the process
for how the above new transit needs were prioritized
against fiscal constraints is explained in Chapter 9:
Phase Projects.

Active Transportation
Linear active transportation projects were based on
cost per mile while point projects were based on a
lump sum per project for at-grade projects and gradeseparated projects. Costs per unit were determined
based on 2019-2050 RTP costs and updated in
consultation with Unified Plan transportation
partners. Cost for the approximately 1,200 miles of
planned linear projects is estimated at $1.046 billion,
in 2023 dollars. Table 21 shows active transportation
unit costs.
Point projects (crossings) were estimated based on
UDOT-provided costs for overhead and underground
crossings. Overhead crossings were based on a
14-foot wide bridge. Underground crossings were
based on a 10’x16’ concrete culvert. Cost for the 104
planned point projects is estimated at $340 million, in
2023 dollars.
Where more detailed project costs were available, the
cost estimates were updated with the relevant cost
information for that specific project.

Table 20. Projected Transit Costs, 2023-2050
TRANSIT EXPENDITURE

AMOUNT (IN CURRENT DOLLARS)

Capital project needs

$6,587,000,000

Operating costs/administration/safety needs/state of
good repair

$23,940,000,000

Total transit needs

$30,527,000,000

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 86 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

Table 21. Active Transportation Unit Costs
TYPE

2023 COST PER UNIT

UNIT

Bike Boulevard

$65,000

per mile

Bike Lane

$126,000

per mile

Bike Lane - Complex

$500,000

per mile

Buffered bike lane

$190,000

per mile

Neighborhood byway

$65,000

per mile

Phased implementation

$126,000

per mile

$1,270,000

per mile

$23,000

per mile

Shared use path

$1,220,000

per mile

Shoulder bikeway

$63,000

per mile

$1,220,000

per mile

Trail

$260,000

per mile

At-grade crossing

$200,000

each

Overhead crossing

$6,300,000

each

Underground crossing

$3,600,000

each

Grade separated crossings

$5,000,000

each

Protected bike lane
Shared lane

Sidepath

Table 22. Projected Active Transportation Costs, 2023-2050
ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE

AMOUNT (IN CURRENT DOLLARS)

Linear projects

$1,046,000,000

Point projects

$342,000,000

Total active transportation needs

Table 22 summarizes the needed expenses associated
with active transportation costs projected for new
projects within the fiscally unconstrained 2023 to
2050 RTP, which total over $1 billion.

Comparison of Revenue and
Cost Estimates
Total new active transportation, transit, and
roadway needs, including capacity, operations,
and preservation, for the WFRC planning area total
$74.558 billion between 2023 and 2050. There is an

$1,388,000,000

estimated $63.16 billion assumed new revenues to
pay for these needed projects, creating a funding
shortfall of approximately $11.392 billion, as seen in
Figure 19.

Roadway
Of the approximate $23.618 billion of capacity
project needs on state and local roads of regional
significance, there will only be about $18.374 billion
of funding, in current dollars. It is projected that
approximately $16.838 billion from existing funding
sources, about $1.053 billion from new revenue

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 87 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

sources, and $260 million from bonding is available for
capacity improvements to roadways within the WFRC
planning area, in current dollars. This results in $5.238
billion of unfunded roadway capacity projects that are
needed between 2023 and 2050.
Preservation, maintenance, and operations funds
for the state and local roadways are estimated to
be approximately $15.218 billion through existing
revenues and $2.531 billion from new revenues for
the Wasatch Front Region. It is projected that there is
about $18.014 billion of preservation, maintenance,
and operations needs. This leaves about $265
million of unfunded preservation, maintenance and
operations projects between 2023 and 2050.

Transit
Approximately $22.159 billion in current dollars is
projected to be available for transit services with

existing funding sources between 2023 and 2050,
which is to be spent on operating and maintaining
the existing transit system in a state of good repair.
There is approximately $7.169 billion projected to
be available for new transit projects within the RTP
through the identified new funding sources and $342
million from bonding, which will be balanced between
capital, operations, and preservation expenses. With
$30.527 billion in identified needs by the year 2050,
this leaves approximately $5.381 billion in unfunded
capital, operations, and preservation expenses in the
Wasatch Front Region between 2023 and 2050.

Active Transportation
The 2023-2050 RTP contains the first effort to fiscally
constrain active transportation projects. Previous
regional transportation plans have determined
needs by phase, but have not applied any revenue
assumptions to get those projects built. Overall,

Figure 19. Roadway, Transit, and Active Transportation Needs vs. Available,
2023-2050
$80 B

$1,354,000,000

$70 B
$1,073,000,000
$60 B
$50 B

$22,159,000,000

$40 B

$2,987,000,000

$30 B

$23,940,000,000

$6,587,000,000
$18,014,000,000
$17,749,000,000

$20 B
$10 B
$0

$18,374,000,000
REVENUE

$23,612,000,000

NEED

Transit Capacity

Transit Maintenance, Preservation, and Operation

Road Capacity

Road Maintenance, Preservation, and Operation

Active Transportation Capacity

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 88 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

approximately $1.073 billion in revenue (current
dollars) is expected to be generated for active
transportation projects contrasted with approximately
$1.385 billion in needs, leaving approximately
$281 million in unfunded projects. The majority of
the expected revenues come from the state TIFAT, which is a relatively new source of funding for
active transportation. Additionally, many active
transportation projects follow similar extents as
roadway construction projects. From an efficiency
standpoint, constructing the active transportation
project as part of the roadway project is prudent.
When such opportunities were identified in the RTP,
active transportation project costs were assumed
in the roadway costs and not reflected in the overall
active transportation costs.
It is important to keep in mind that there are no
assumptions for sidewalk projects, nor maintenance in
these dollar figures, nor are local active transportation
projects accounted for. As this is the first effort to
fiscally constrain active transportation projects, it is
anticipated that the process will become more refined
in future iterations.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 89 | 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations

Our Regional transportation system has real
impacts on the lives of Utahns.
Here’s one story:

DANIEL
Ching Yang Lin, who goes by Daniel, is
a flight student attending Utah Valley
University. In 2016, Daniel moved to Utah
from Philadelphia to attend school. In
2021, he became familiar with the UTA
network, beginning to use a number of
bus routes after familiarizing himself with
the route network. A typical commute
from Salt Lake to Provo for school involves
a ride on the S-Line Streetcar, followed
by a ride on TRAX before connecting to a
FrontRunner train and finally a bus. As a
student without a car, he uses an e-scooter
to complement his transit trips, helping him
traverse the distances needed to reach his
destinations. He also considers biking as a
pretty convenient option, and likes to ride
bikes in Sugar House Park. Daniel actually
used to ride his bike to get around, but
made the switch to his e-scooter as a
more convenient and quick option,
especially connecting with
transit.

9

PHASE
PROJECTS
Overview of Phasing Process
The Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) developed a two-tiered
phasing process in which WFRC, in consultation with the Utah Department
of Transportation (UDOT), the Utah Transit Authority (UTA), and local
communities, first identified the phase a project is needed, and then assessed
fiscal constraints for three phases.
A project is considered to be in a certain “phase” when its construction start
date is placed into a funded time horizon or an unfunded list of projects. The
three phases of the 2023-2050 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) are:
»
»
»

Phase 1: 2023 to 2032;
Phase 2: 2033 to 2042; and
Phase 3: 2043 to 2050.

Funding is not projected to be available for all projects and some projects will
end up being placed in the unfunded portion of the RTP – although they are
still considered needed by 2050.

Needs-Based Phasing
The needs-based phasing of the 2023-2050 RTP roadway, transit, and active
transportation projects was guided by the Wasatch Choice Vision regional
goals. These goals informed the criteria, weighting, and methodology used to
phase projects, and differ slightly by transportation mode.
WFRC uses a variety of tools to forecast the timing and impact of anticipated
growth, such as the regional Travel Demand Model (TDM) and the Real
Estate Market Model (REMM). Population, households, employment,
and travel-related forecasts from these models are used to assign points
to each transportation project in the near- and long-term time horizon.
Projects are phased using technical data and input from WFRC’s partners,
including UDOT, UTA, and local communities. Phasing was further refined
through coordination with UDOT, UTA, Regional Growth Committee (RGC)
technical advisory committees (TACs), and the local area workshops held for
community elected officials and staff.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 91 | 9: Phase Projects

The specific, goal-centered criteria used by WFRC for
phasing differ by mode. Each criterion listed a specific
measure, methodology, and data requirement. The
2023-2050 RTP’s project selection and phasing criteria
by mode are as follows:

Fiscal Constraint Phasing

Roadway
Evaluation criteria was based on the Wasatch Choice
Vision goals of:
»
»
»
»
»
»

Access to economic and educational
opportunities;
Fiscally efficient communities and
infrastructure;
Livable and healthy communities;
Manageable and reliable traffic conditions;
Quality transportation choices; and
Safe, user-friendly streets.

See Appendix I: Needs-Based Phasing Criteria for
additional information regarding roadway phasing.

Evaluation criteria was based on the Wasatch Choice
Vision goals of:

»
»
»
»
»

Access to economic and educational
opportunities;
Livable and healthy communities;
Fiscally efficient communities and
infrastructure;
Manageable and reliable traffic conditions;
Quality transportation choices; and
Safe, user-friendly streets.

See Appendix I: Needs-Based Phasing Criteria for
additional information regarding transit phasing.

Active Transportation
Evaluation criteria was based on the Wasatch Choice
Vision goals of:
»
»
»
»
»

After roadway, transit, and active transportation
projects were prioritized by need, they were then
assigned phases based upon these priorities and the
amount of funding that is forecasted to be available
within each phase. The roadway, transit, and active
transportation financial plans, including revenue
and costs assumptions within 2023 to 2050, can be
reviewed in Chapter 8: Assess Fiscal Considerations.
There were more needed projects than anticipated
revenues could fund. Therefore, some projects
were moved to future phases or placed into the
“unfunded” category. Figure 20 shows the needs and
available revenue by phase for road, transit, and active
transportation projects.

Roadway Projects and Phasing

Transit

»

See Appendix I: Needs-Based Phasing Criteria
for additional information regarding active
transportation phasing.

Access to economic and educational
opportunities;
Housing choices and affordable living;
Livable and healthy communities;
Quality transportation choices; and
Safe, user-friendly streets.

The 2023-2050 RTP roadway projects are identified
segments of corridors or point locations that will
require new construction, widening, upgrades, or
operational improvements. Maps 5 and 6 show the
location and type of each roadway project. Table
23 provides a summary by phase of the number of
projects, miles of projects, and costs of projects
by type. A complete list of each project, including
project number, project name, project length, type of
improvement, number of lanes, proposed 2050 rightof-way (ROW) width, functional classification, length
of improvement, facility owner, when the project is
needed, fiscally constrained phase, current cost, and
phased cost, is located in Appendix H: 2023-2050 RTP
Phased Project Lists by Mode. The 2023-2050 RTP
roadway projects list can also be accessed via the
interactive map by clicking on the project, and viewing
the information in the pop-up box.

Transit Projects and Phasing
The 2023-2050 RTP transit projects include identified
corridors with planned transit routes and point
projects that enhance existing or planned service,
as shown in Maps 7 and 8. Each project is identified
by mode and is designated as core route, bus rapid
transit (BRT), streetcar, light rail, commuter rail,
corridor preservation, park and ride, infill station,

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 92 | 9: Phase Projects

Figure 19. Roadway, Transit, and Active Transportation Needs vs. Available,
2023-2050
$25,000,000,000

$20,000,000,000

$15,000,000,000

$10,000,000,000

$5,000,000,000

$0

PHASE 1:
2023-2032

PHASE 2:
2033-2042

PHASE 3:
2043-2050

TOTAL

Transit Needs

Transit Revenues

Road Needs

Road Revenues

Active Transportation Needs

Active Transportation Revenues

Table 23. Roadway Project Summary
TYPE

NUMBER OF PROJECTS

NUMBER OF MILES

2023 COST

New Construction

35

59

$1,583,000,000

Widening

26

78

$3,783,000,000

Operational

48

169

$507,000,000

Interchange Improvements

10

-

$497,000,000

New Interchanges

13

-

$982,000,000

Grade-Separated Crossings

6

-

$241,000,000

Phase 1

Phase 1 Total Cost

$7,593,000,000

Phase 1 Revenue

$7,924,000,000

Phase 2
New Construction

20

39

$1,519,000,000

Widening

37

89

$2,478,000,000

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 93 | 9: Phase Projects

TYPE

NUMBER OF PROJECTS

NUMBER OF MILES

2023 COST

Operational

38

91

$336,000,000

Interchange Improvements

8

-

$830,000,000

New Interchanges

3

-

$304,000,000

Grade-Separated Crossings

9

-

$324,000,000

Phase 2 Total Cost

$5,791,000,000

Phase 2 Revenue

$6,065,000,000

Phase 3
New Construction

21

29

$964,000,000

Widening

22

80

$1,949,000,000

Operational

47

146

$613,000,000

Interchange Improvements

6

-

$198,000,000

New Interchanges

1

-

$50,000,000

Grade-Separated Crossings

8

-

$308,000,000

Phase 3 Total Cost

$4,082,000,000

Phase 3 Revenue

$4,387,000,000

Unfunded
New Construction

55

102

$2,411,000,000

Widening

19

37

$1,120,000,000

Operational

6

61

$230,000,000

Interchange Improvements

16

-

$2,169,000,000

New Interchanges

2

-

$121,000,000

Grade-Separated Crossings

2

-

$64,000,000

Unfunded Total Cost

$6,236,000,000

All Phases
New Construction

131

219

$6,477,000,000

Widening

104

283

$9,384,000,000

Operational

139

467

$1,686,000,000

Interchange Improvements

40

-

$3,694,000,000

New Interchanges

19

-

$1,457,000,000

Grade-Separated Crossings

25

-

$937,000,000

All Phases Total Cost

$23,618,000,000

Total Phases Revenue

$18,375,000,000

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 94 | 9: Phase Projects

Map 5. Roadway Projects by Type - Ogden-Layton Urbanized Area

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 95 | 9: Phase Projects

Map 6. Roadway Projects by Type - Salt Lake City-West Valley City Urbanized Area

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 96 | 9: Phase Projects

Map 7. Transit Projects by Type - Ogden-Layton Urbanized Area

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 97 | 9: Phase Projects

Map 8. Transit Projects by Type - Salt Lake City-West Valley City Urbanized Area

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 98 | 9: Phase Projects

Table 24. Transit Project Summary
NUMBER
OF
PROJECTS

NUMBER
OF MILES

Core Route

17

214.2

$437,690,000

$44,780,000

Bus Rapid Transit

2

9.8

$501,000,000

$4,710,000

Streetcar

1

0.2

$11,560,000

$110,000

Light Rail

1

1.6

$4,870,000

-

Commuter Rail

3

14.7

$718,440,000

$6,560,000

Corridor Preservation

5

39.5

$58,730,000

-

Gondola

0

-

-

-

Transit Hub

7

-

$132,100,000

-

Maintenance Facility

5

-

$79,350,000

-

Park & Ride

2

-

$8,420,000

-

Infill Station

1

-

$2,990,000

-

$1,955,150,000

$56,140,000

TYPE

2023 ANNUAL
OPERATING
COSTS

2023 CAPITAL
COSTS

Phase 1

Phase 1 Cost (One-Year Operating Expense)
Phase 1 Total Cost (Capital Cost and Multi-Year Operating Expense)

$2,222,000,000

Phase 1 Revenue

$2,259,000,000

Phase 2
Core Route

11

93.9

$56,340,000

$12,230,000

Bus Rapid Transit

1

13.5

$243,000,000

$6,480,000

Streetcar

0

-

-

-

Light Rail

2

2.25

$221,040,000

$9,400,000

Commuter Rail

3

-

$700,000,000

-

Corridor Preservation

0

-

-

-

Gondola

0

-

-

-

Transit Hub

8

-

$118,860,000

-

Maintenance Facility

1

-

$20,000,000

-

Park & Ride

1

-

$4,210,000

-

Infill Station

0

-

-

-

$1,363,000,000

$28,000,000

Phase 2 Cost (One-Year Operating Expense)
Phase 2 Total Cost (Capital and Phases 1 and 2 Multi-Year Operating Expense)

$2,003,000,000

Phase 2 Revenue

$2,363,000,000

Phase 3
Core Route

4

36.1

Bus Rapid Transit

0

-

$17,100,000

$3,710,000

-

-

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 99 | 9: Phase Projects

NUMBER
OF
PROJECTS

NUMBER
OF MILES

Streetcar

1

3.4

$196,520,000

$1,800,000

Light Rail

1

6.7

$30,000,000

$7,490,000

Commuter Rail

3

39.8

$1,482,020,000

-

Corridor Preservation

0

-

-

-

Gondola (this reflects the current status of the
federally-mandated EIS process; if that process
ultimately results in a modified approach, the RTP
will be changed to reflect that modified approach)

1

8.5

$391,000,000

$4,000,000

Transit Hub

0

-

-

-

Maintenance Facility

1

-

$5,850,000

-

Park & Ride

3

-

$12,630,000

-

Infill Station

0

-

-

-

$2,135,100,000

$17,000,000

TYPE

Phase 3 Cost (One-Year Operating Expense)

2023 ANNUAL
OPERATING
COSTS

2023 CAPITAL
COSTS

Phase 3 Total Cost (Capital Cost and Phases 1, 2, and 3 Multi-Year Operating Expense)

$2,775,000,000

Phase 3 Revenue

$2,547,000,000

Unfunded
Core Route

0

-

-

-

Bus Rapid Transit

0

-

-

-

Streetcar

2

10.2

$498,180,000

$4,290,000

Light Rail

0

-

-

-

Commuter Rail

3

26.6

$635,010,000

-

Corridor Preservation

0

-

-

-

Gondola

0

-

-

-

Transit Hub

0

-

-

-

Maintenance Facility

0

-

-

-

Park & Ride

0

-

-

-

Infill Station

0

-

-

-

$1,133,190,000

$4,290,000

Unfunded Total Cost
Unfunded Total Cost (Capital Cost and all phases Multi-Year Operating Expense)

$1,147,000,000

All Phases
Core Route

32

350.3

$511,130,000

$60,710,000

Bus Rapid Transit

4

30.5

$744,000,000

$11,190,000

Streetcar

4

13.8

$706,260,000

$6,200,000

Light Rail

4

12.2

$255,040,000

$16,900,000

Commuter Rail

12

81.1

$3,535,141,000

$6,560,000

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 100 | 9: Phase Projects

NUMBER
OF
PROJECTS

NUMBER
OF MILES

Corridor Preservation

5

39.5

$58,730,000

-

Gondola (this reflects the current status of the
federally-mandated EIS process; if that process
ultimately results in a modified approach, the RTP
will be changed to reflect that modified approach)

1

8.5

$391,000,000

$4,000,000

Transit Hub

15

-

$250,960,000

-

Maintenance Facility

7

-

$105,200,000

-

Park & Ride

6

-

$25,270,000

-

Infill Station

1

-

$4,000,000

-

$6,587,000,000

$101,550,000

TYPE

All Phase Total Cost (One-Year Operating Expense)

2023 CAPITAL
COSTS

2023 ANNUAL
OPERATING
COSTS

Total Cost Fiscally Constrained RTP (Capital and Multi-Year Operating Expense)

$6,999,000,000

Total Cost Unfunded RTP (All Phases Capital and Multi-Year Operating Expense)

$8,147,000,000

Total Phases Revenue

$7,169,000,000

maintenance facility, or transit hub. Table 24 provides
a summary of these investments by mode and
phase, including the number and miles of planned
investments and capital and operating costs in current
dollars. A complete list of each project including the
project name, project length, transit mode, when the
project is needed, the fiscally constrained phase,
current cost, and phased cost can be found in
Appendix H: 2023-2050 RTP Phased Project Lists by
Mode. The 2023-2050 RTP transit project list can also
be accessed via the interactive map by clicking on
the project, and viewing the information in the popup box.

Phased Project Maps
Roadway, transit, and active transportation projects
work together to create a comprehensive, multimodal system. Maps 11 through 18 show the 20232050 RTP roadway, transit, and active transportation
projects by phase. For more detail, these maps have
been shown by Urbanized Area.
The 2023-2050 RTP roadway, transit, and active
transportation projects can also be accessed via the
interactive map by clicking on the project and viewing
the information in the pop-up box.

Active Transportation Projects and
Phasing
The 2023-2050 RTP active transportation projects list
can be found in Appendix H: 2023-2050 RTP Phased
Project Lists by Mode and identifies planned active
transportation routes and point projects. Each project
description includes the project name, project length,
facility type, when the project is needed, the fiscally
constrained phase, current cost, and phased cost. The
2023-2050 RTP active transportation project list can
also be accessed via the interactive map by clicking on
the project and viewing the information in the pop-up
box. Maps 9 and 10 show the locations and Table 25
provides a summary of active transportation projects
included in the 2023-2050 RTP.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 101 | 9: Phase Projects

Map 9. Active Transportation Projects by Type - Ogden-Layton Urbanized Area

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 102 | 9: Phase Projects

Map 10. Active Transportation Projects by Type - Salt Lake City-West Valley City
Urbanized Area

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 103 | 9: Phase Projects

Table 25. Active Transportation Project Summary
TYPE

NUMBER OF PROJECTS

NUMBER OF MILES

2023 CAPITAL COST

Bike Boulevard

8

15

$5,430,000

Bike Lane

39

75

$19,780,000

Buffered Bike Lane

18

37

$8,110,000

Neighborhood Byway

0

0

$0

Phased Implementation

0

0

$0

Protected Bike Lane

10

22

$30,970,000

Shared Lane

1

0.2

$5,000

Shared Use Path

76

140

$268,340,000

Shoulder Bikeway

1

0.6

$40,000

Side Path

2

5

$5,630,000

Trail

0

0

$0

Future Study Needed

3

3

$320,000

At-Grade Crossing

15

-

$5,530,000

Overhead Crossing

8

-

$50,610,000

Underground Crossing

1

-

$3,600,000

Grade-Separated Crossing

1

-

$5,500,000

Phase 1

Phase 1 Total Cost

$403,870,000

Phase 1 Revenue

$401,240,000

Phase 2
Bike Boulevard

8

11

$1,970,000

Bike Lane

65

121

$18,580,000

Buffered Bike Lane

22

47

$9,920,000

Neighborhood Byway

3

2

$110,000

Phased Implementation

0

0

$0

Protected Bike Lane

12

15

$18,980,000

Shared Lane

1

1

$12,000

Shared Use Path

78

145

$233,990,000

Shoulder Bikeway

1

1

$700,000

Side Path

5

10

$11,620,000

Trail

2

2

$440,000

Future Study Needed

1

2

$4,000,000

At-Grade Crossing

16

-

$3,200,000

Overhead Crossing

11

-

$84,540,000

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 104 | 9: Phase Projects

TYPE

NUMBER OF PROJECTS

NUMBER OF MILES

2023 CAPITAL COST

Underground Crossing

0

-

-

Grade-Separated Crossing

3

-

$13,530,000

Phase 2 Total Cost

$401,600,000

Phase 2 Revenue

$404,600,000

Phase 3
Bike Boulevard

4

6

$1,700,000

Bike Lane

85

138

$26,270,000

Buffered Bike Lane

13

17

$3,260,000

Neighborhood Byway

3

8

$470,000

Phased Implementation

1

2

$240,000

Protected Bike Lane

5

10

$12,650,000

Shared Lane

4

2

$40,000

Shared Use Path

38

71

$120,510,000

Shoulder Bikeway

2

0.5

$20,000

Side Path

8

8

$9,830,000

Trail

1

2

$470,000

Future Study Needed

2

3

$330,000

At-Grade Crossing

8

-

$1,600,000

Overhead Crossing

7

-

$44,290,000

Underground Crossing

8

-

$28,800,000

Grade-Separated Crossing

3

-

$14,890,000

Phase 3 Total Cost

$265,370,000

Phase 3 Revenue

$267,400,000

Unfunded
Bike Boulevard

1

2

$40,000

Bike Lane

75

96

$21,940,000

Buffered Bike Lane

6

20

$4,700,000

Neighborhood Byway

1

2

$100,000

Phased Implementation

0

0

$0

Protected Bike Lane

0

0

$0

Shared Lane

1

1

$20,000

Shared Use Path

41

101

$177,260,000

Shoulder Bikeway

2

3

$2,520,000

Side Path

2

4

$5,010,000

Trail

22

76

$19,770,000

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 105 | 9: Phase Projects

TYPE

NUMBER OF PROJECTS

NUMBER OF MILES

2023 CAPITAL COST

Future Study Needed

0

-

-

At-Grade Crossing

6

-

$1,200,000

Overhead Crossing

8

-

$50,610,000

Underground Crossing

8

-

$28,800,000

Grade-Separated Crossing

1

-

$4,960,000

Unfunded Total Cost

$316,930,000

All Phases
Bike Boulevard

21

33

$9,140,000

Bike Lane

264

429

$86,570,000

Buffered Bike Lane

59

122

$25,990,000

Neighborhood Byway

7

11

$680,000

Phased Implementation

1

2

$240,000

Protected Bike Lane

27

47

$62,600,000

Shared Lane

7

4

$85,000

Shared Use Path

233

457

$800,100,000

Shoulder Bikeway

6

6

$3,280,000

Side Path

17

26

$32,090,000

Trail

25

80

$20,680,000

Future Study Needed

6

8

$4,650,000

At-Grade Crossing

45

-

$11,530,000

Overhead Crossing

34

-

$230,050,000

Underground Crossing

17

-

$61,200,000

Grade-Separated Crossing

8

-

$38,880,000

All Phases Total Cost

$1,387,770,000

Total Phases Revenue

$1,073,220,000

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 106 | 9: Phase Projects

Map 11. Phase 1 Projects (2023-2032) Roadway, Transit, and Active Transportation
- Ogden-Layton Urbanized Area

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 107 | 9: Phase Projects

Map 12. Phase 1 Projects (2023-2032) Roadway, Transit, and Active Transportation
- Salt Lake City-West Valley City Urbanized Area

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 108 | 9: Phase Projects

Map 13. Phase 2 Projects (2033-2042) Roadway, Transit, and Active Transportation
- Ogden-Layton Urbanized Area

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 109 | 9: Phase Projects

Map 14. Phase 2 Projects (2033-2042) Roadway, Transit, and Active Transportation
- Salt Lake City-West Valley City Urbanized Area

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 110 | 9: Phase Projects

Map 15. Phase 3 Projects (2043-2050) Roadway, Transit, and Active Transportation
- Ogden-Layton Urbanized Area

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 111 | 9: Phase Projects

Map 16. Phase 3 Projects (2043-2050) Roadway, Transit, and Active Transportation
- Salt Lake City-West Valley City Urbanized Area

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 112 | 9: Phase Projects

Map 17. Unfunded Projects (beyond 2050) Roadway, Transit, and Active
Transportation - Ogden-Layton Urbanized Area

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 113 | 9: Phase Projects

Map 18. Unfunded Projects (beyond 2050) Roadway, Transit, and Active
Transportation - Salt Lake City-West Valley City Urbanized Area

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 114 | 9: Phase Projects

Our Regional transportation system has real
impacts on the lives of Utahns.
Here’s one story:

AUSTIN
Austin is a 29-year-old North Carolina
transplant who moved to Salt Lake nearly
four years ago. Having purchased a home in
the Liberty Wells neighborhood, he currently
works for Backcountry.com in Kimball
Junction and has come to love life here. Austin
commutes a few times a week by using the
UTA vanpool subsidized by his work. While
he finds the vanpool is not as robust as it was
pre-pandemic, thanks to the hybrid working
schedule, there still remains a solid crew of 1520 employees who continue to use the service
together with him. In the morning, he bikes
over to the vanpool pickup location, a little less
than a mile away from his house. From there,
unless he’s driving, he sits back and relaxes for
the rest of the way. This is a great deal for him,
as driving alone up Parley’s Canyon is a bit of a
rough commute, and he considers the vanpool
option as one of the factors which help his job
work out. In his own words, “it would take a
really attractive offer to get me to take a job
that required a 30 minute car ride commute
that I couldn’t dual-purpose with social time,
instead of having wasted time sitting alone in a
car”. In a similar vein, access to transportation
opportunities also informed Austin’s
housing choices. He and his girlfriend
sought a place where they could
mostly bike and use transit
for daily needs and made
an effort to locate in a
neighborhood close
to TRAX and a
good selection
of grocery
stores.

10

PRESENT IMPACTS
AND BENEFITS
The 2023–2050 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) was evaluated to
determine its social, economic, and environmental impacts and how well it
would meet the transportation needs of the Region through the year 2050.
The goals and objectives for the 2023–2050 RTP helped form the basis for
this evaluation and the RTP was also analyzed with regard to its conformity
with state air quality plans and other factors.

Wasatch Choice Vision Performance Measures
Performance measures were used to assess the performance of the phased,
fiscally constrained preferred Wasatch Choice Vision scenario. Each measure
compares existing conditions to two future scenarios:
1

2

Existing plans funded through 2028: this scenario demonstrates how
our transportation system and land use will perform together in 2050
if we build currently funded transportation projects and then make
no additional transportation investment or shifts in land use policy
through the year 2050.
Wasatch Choice Path to 2050: this scenario demonstrates how our
transportation system and land development patterns will perform
together through the year 2050, if we fund and build transportation
projects using revenue sources currently in place along with specific
additional revenue streams, considering how future technologies may
impact our travel behavior, coupled with the Wasatch Choice Vision’s
proposed land use policies through 2050.

Between now and 2050, the population in the Wasatch Front Regional Council
(WFRC) planning area is expected to increase 32 percent, from approximately
1.9 million to approximately 2.5 million. This additional population, as well
as our current population and visitors, will need to travel to jobs, education,
recreation, visit friends and family, and other daily activities. It is the goal
of the Wasatch Choice Vision for this travel to be reliable, manageable,
accessible to destinations, multi-modal, and safe. Table 26 shows relatively
modest benefits in some performance areas, but this is somewhat impressive
given the substantial increase in population. More information about how the
Wasatch Choice Vision impacts Equity Focus Areas (EFAs) can be found in
Appendix J: System Performance Report.
The accessibility provided by the Wasatch Choice path transportation
networks performs better than that of the current path, about
21 percent more for auto access and about 33 percent more

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 116 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

Table 26. Regional Performance Measures Summary
METRIC

MEASURE

TODAY

CURRENT
PATH TO
2050

WASATCH
CHOICE
PATH TO
2050

Goal: Access to economic and educational opportunities
Access to
Opportunities

The number of jobs and households that
are accessible within a typical commute

Auto

224,000

242,000

293,000

Transit

14,000

18,000

24,000

16.1

13.6

12.5

Auto:transit access to opportunities ratio
Goal: Manageable and reliable traffic conditions
Freight Delay

Hours of total truck delay per day

94,000

146,000

124,000

Freight Speed

The average truck speed on freight corridors in the
evening commute

41 mph

35 mph

39 mph

Auto Travel
Time

The time per day spent traveling in a
vehicle

1,048,000

1,607,000

1,523,000

Avg. Driver

0:55

1:06

1:02

Transit

16%

16%

33%

Bike

58%

55%

83%

Trips

569,000

869,000

834,000

8.1%

9.0%

8.6%

108,000

212,000

291,000

1.5%

2.2%

3.0%

65.2

55.7

59.8

Region

Goal: Quality transportation choices
Transportation
Choices

The percent of people who are nearby
(are within one quarter of a mile) a
frequent bus route, transit stop/station,
or dedicated bike facility

Walk and Bike
Use

The number of trips per day that
residents travel by active transportation

Transit Use

The number of trips per day that
residents travel by transit

Mode Split
Trips
Mode Split

Goal: Clean Air
Air Quality

The miles of vehicle travel taken in the Region per
household

for transit access. Overall, local residents improve
their auto access 31 percent and their transit
access 71 percent over today. Among the factors
influencing accessibility is the type of transportation
improvements, such as strategic widenings,
operational projects, new roads, expanded rail,
new bus rapid transit (BRT) routes, and more
frequent core bus routes. In addition, the linking
of transportation investment and development
decisions provides significant benefit and is one of
the key strategies of the Wasatch Choice Vision.
Average travel time by car will increase in either future
scenario due to a growing region and significant
population increase. However, seven more minutes
per day over the next 28 years is a relatively minor

increase, especially when considered with the
significant increases in destination access. It may
take longer to travel the same distance in the future,
but the average person will be able to reach more
destinations within that time, as noted by the access
to opportunities performance measure.
One of the most direct measures of economic vitality
is truck freight mobility. Overall truck delay increases
in both future scenarios, but is about 15 percent less
in the Wasatch Choice path. This is in part due to
specifically targeted capacity and operational road
improvements. In addition, the Wasatch Choice path
includes a number of grade-separated crossings over
freight rail corridors to reduce conflict and improve
safety between regional traffic and freight traffic.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 117 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

The Wasatch Choice path significantly increases
access to transit and active transportation over
today’s environment, doubling access for transit
and over 40 percent for active transportation. One
of the key differences between the current path and
the Wasatch Choice path is the assumption of new
revenue beyond our existing revenue sources. There
is a significant unrealized transit access if we do not
identify new revenue streams for transit. This access
to transit translates into substantial increase in transit
use, as compared to both current ridership and
current path ridership. By investing more in our transit
system and increasing service breadth and coverage,
we can increase ridership by an additional 37 percent
compared to the current path, to almost 300,000 trips
per day.
Vehicle miles traveled (VMT) is a performance metric
used to measure how far people need to travel to
reach destinations. Based on modeling projections,
regional VMT is expected to increase from 42.3
million miles today to 58.8 million miles in 2050, or
1.4 percent per year, while our VMT per household
decreases from 65.2 miles to 59.8 miles, or 0.3 percent
per year. As our Region grows, we will see an increase
in VMT unless dramatic changes occur in our land use,
funding, and transportation policies, and, moreover,
our personal transportation choices.

Mode Share Metrics
The way in which people choose to travel can be largely
influenced by the options they have. The intent of the
2023-2050 RTP is to provide transportation choices to
residents living along the Wasatch Front. By supporting
people to take transit, walk, or bike for more trips, the
Region will experience benefits such as decreased
congestion, better air quality, and active streets. With
implementation of the 2023-2050 RTP, 83 percent
of the Region’s population will have access to active
transportation infrastructure within a quarter mile of
their home and 33 percent of the Region’s population
will have access to frequent transit within a quarter
mile of their home. This is an increase of 43 and over
100 percent, respectively, when compared to today.
The increase in people living and working around
transit and active transportation facilities translates
to an increase in people using transit and active
transportation. Based on modeling projections,
it is expected that a higher percentage of people
will be walking, biking, and taking transit with the
implementation of the Wasatch Choice Vision than
today, as shown in Table 27.

Table 27. Daily Mode Share
EXISTING

WASATCH
CHOICE
VISION

Daily
Single-Occupancy Vehicle

42.1%

41.1%

Multiple-Occupancy Vehicle

48.3%

47.2%

Auto Total

90.4%

88.4%

Bus (Local, Core Route)

0.5%

1.1%

Fixed Guideway (BRT,
TRAX, FrontRunner)

1.0%

1.9%

Transit Total

1.5%

3.0%

Active Transportation Total

8.1%

8.6%

Most travel demand management (TDM) programs and
other mode choice interventions often focus on trying
to reduce single-occupancy-vehicle trips to work with
carpool, transit, and biking trips. Table 27 shows the
commute mode share, now and in 2050, and shows
almost a five percentage point change from driving
alone to another mode.

Federal Performance Measures
In addition to identifying planning factors to guide
MPOs, Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st
Century Act (MAP-21) and the Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation (FAST) Act also provided
a performance management framework for state
Departments of Transportation (DOTs), transit
agencies, and Metropolitan Planning Organizations
(MPOs) to assess and monitor the performance of
the transportation system. Outlined were national
performance goals for the Federal-aid highway
program and for transit agencies.
In support of the national performance goals, the
2023-2050 RTP integrates the priorities, goals,
countermeasures, strategies, or projects from the:
»
»
»
»
»
»
»
»

Strategic Highway Safety Plan (SHSP)
Highway Safety Improvement Program (HSIP)
Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan (PTASP)
Transportation Asset Management Plan (TAMP)
Transit Transportation Asset Management
Plan (TTAMP)
State Freight Plan (SFP)
Congestion Management Plan (CMP)
Congestion Management Air Quality
Performance Plan (CMAQPP)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 118 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

Table 28. Mode Share by Trip Purpose
HOME-BASED
WORK

HOME-BASED
COLLEGE

HOME-BASED
OTHER

NON-HOME
BASED

Existing
Single-Occupancy Vehicle

77.4%

48.6%

30.0%

39.8%

Multiple-Occupancy Vehicle

15.3%

16.8%

58.2%

53.5%

Auto Total

92.6%

65.4%

88.1%

93.2%

Bus (Local, Core Route)

0.9%

4.3%

0.3%

0.1%

Fixed Guideway (BRT, TRAX, FrontRunner)

1.9%

12.0%

0.5%

0.5%

Transit Total

2.8%

16.5%

0.8%

0.6%

Active Transportation Total

4.5%

18.1%

11.0%

6.2%

Single-Occupancy Vehicle

72.7%

48.2%

29.6%

39.4%

Multiple-Occupancy Vehicle

16.9%

16.4%

56.7%

53.4%

Auto Total

89.6%

64.6%

86.3%

92.9%

Bus (Local, Core Route)

1.6%

5.6%

0.8%

0.3%

Fixed Guideway (BRT, TRAX, FrontRunner)

4.2%

14.1%

0.9%

0.6%

Transit Total

5.8%

19.7%

1.7%

0.9%

Active Transportation Total

4.7%

15.7%

12.0%

6.2%

Wasatch Choice Vision

The 2023-2050 RTP should help the Utah Department
of Transportation (UDOT) and the Utah Transit
Authority (UTA) make progress toward achieving
performance targets. Each DOT, transit agency,
and MPO is required to coordinate together to set
performance targets and report on progress toward
meeting national goals and agency targets. WFRC
incorporated the national goals into the following five
Wasatch Choice Vision goals:
»
»
»
»
»

Manageable and reliable traffic conditions;
Access to economic and educational
opportunities;
Safe, user-friendly streets;
Clean air; and
Fiscally responsible communities and
infrastructure.

These goals and five other goals were the basis of
the creation of the 2023-2050 RTP, from scenario
development to project selection to project phasing.
Appendix J: System Performance Report provides
further detail about federal performance measures
and how the 2023-2050 RTP integrates key elements
from related plans.

Highway Performance Measures
Table 29 shows the federally required highway
performance measures, targets, and reporting.

Safety
Safe, user-friendly streets is a goal of the Wasatch
Choice Vision and is incorporated into the project
selection and project prioritization of the 2023-2050
RTP. It is assumed that any improvement to our
streets will improve the safety of the roadway. More
than half of the road projects within the 2023-2050
RTP will improve infrastructure with a United States
Road Assessment Program (usRAP) rating less than
four (out of five) and have been prioritized with
respect to safety. The 2023-2050 RTP also includes
25 grade-separated vehicle crossings that will reduce
freight conflict with ground transportation, including
bicyclists and pedestrians.
Increased use of bicycle and pedestrian facilities is
a result of safe, user-friendly streets as well. The
2023-2050 RTP includes 169 miles of protected and
buffered bike lanes and 548 miles of separated, nonmotorized shared use paths, side paths, and trails.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 119 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

Table 29. Federally Required Highway Performance Measures and Targets
PERFORMANCE MEASURE

BASELINE

BASELINE
FOUR-YEAR
TARGET1

FOUR-YEAR
ACTUALS2

STATUS

CURRENT
FOUR-YEAR
TARGET

Highway Safety Improvement Program3
Number of fatalities

273

277

Fatality rate per 100 million vehicle
miles traveled

0.87

0.81

Number of serious injuries

1,453

Serious injury rate per 100 million
vehicle miles traveled

4.62

4.39

Number of non-motorized fatalities
and serious injuries

219

224

2.5% decrease
of the last
5-year average

1,502

2.5% decrease
of the last
5-year average

National Highway Performance Program
Percent of pavement on Interstate
System in good condition

59.4

>60% in good
condition

67.8

>50

Percent of pavement on Interstate
System in poor condition

0.4

<5% in poor
condition

0.2

<5

Percent of pavement on non-Interstate
NHS in good condition

58.1

>35% in good
condition

49.3

>30

Percent of pavement on non-Interstate
NHS in poor condition

41.2

<5% in poor
condition

0.9

<10

Percent of NHS bridges classified as in
good condition

5.8

>40% in good
condition

28.6

>40

Percent of NHS bridges classified as in
poor condition

1.0

<10% in poor
condition

0.1

<10

Percent of person miles traveled on
Interstate System that are reliable

90.3%

85%

98.9%

80%

Percent of person miles traveled on
non- Interstate System that are reliable

85.7%

75%

90.1%

65%

1.21

1.3

1.16

1.4

National Highway Freight Program
Truck travel time reliability index

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 120 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement Program
Annual hours of peak-hour excessive
delay per capita

10.6

13.0

8.8

8.0

Percent of non-single-occupant vehicle
travel

24.9

24.9

268

1.4

1. WFRC concurs with all UDOT targets.
2. Baseline performance period from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2021. Second performance period from January 1, 2022 to December
31, 2025.
3. Targets are set on a rolling five-year average.
4. Data applies to the Salt Lake City-West Valley City Urbanized Area.
5. Data applies to the Ogden-Layton Urbanized Area.

These facilities provide physical protection of one
form or another between bicyclists and vehicles,
increasing safety and comfort of the user. In addition,
there are 104 enhanced bicycle/pedestrian crossings
that will reduce conflict with freight and vehicular
transportation and/or will improve safety where
potential conflicts between bicycles, pedestrians, and
vehicles can occur.

Infrastructure
Fiscally responsible communities and infrastructure
is a goal of the Wasatch Choice Vision and pavement
and bridge conditions have been incorporated into
the project selection and project prioritization of the
2023-2050 RTP. Our fiscal analysis has assumed that
$9.565 billion will be spent on preservation between
2023-2050 RTP in the two Wasatch Front Urbanized
Areas. This is in addition to 2023-2050 RTP roadway
capacity projects that will improve pavement and
bridge conditions. WFRC assumes that any roadway
widening project will reconstruct the entire roadway.

performance-based planning of the 2023-2050 RTP.
This includes roadway volumes, volume-to-capacity
ratios, connectivity, and vehicle hours of delay. The
2023-2050 RTP contains almost 66 miles of managed
motorways, including ramp metering and system-tosystem metering, on I-15 through Salt Lake, Davis, and
Weber Counties to improve reliability of the mosttraveled road in the state. The 2023-2050 RTP also
contains over 470 miles of operational projects on
interstates, freeways, arterials, and collectors to make
travel times around the Region more predictable.

Freight Movement and Economic Vitality

Also, communities need to build into their
maintenance budgets preservation for active
transportation facilities such as sidewalks and shared
use paths. Many on-street facilities, such as buffered
bike lanes, will be considered as part of roadway
pavement width maintenance. However, even in those
cases, upkeep of painted markings and signage must
also be factored into the cost of maintaining good
infrastructure.

Access to economic and educational opportunities
is a goal of the Wasatch Choice Vision and freight
considerations have been incorporated into the project
selection and project prioritization of the 20232050 RTP. Projects were evaluated on their ability to
enhance freight mobility by considering locations with
high truck volume percentages. These projects have
allowed freight speeds on critical freight corridors to
remain relatively stable, decreasing from 41 miles per
hour (mph) today to only 39 mph in 2050. In addition,
the 2023-2050 RTP was developed with considerations
for freight-oriented developments such as the Inland
Port in northwest Salt Lake County, the Business
Depot - Ogden, and the Freeport Center in Davis
County. Extra freight-planning related outreach to a
newly-formed WFRC Freight Advisory Committee and
a standalone WFRC Urban Freight Study enhanced
freight planning in the 2023-2050 RTP.

System Reliability

Congestion Reduction

Manageable and reliable traffic conditions is a
Wasatch Choice Vision goal. Reliability is directly
tied to the congestion of the system, and as such,
congestion-related measures are integrated into the

Congestion reduction performance measures include
peak hour excess delay and percent non-single
occupancy vehicle (SOV). Both manageable and
reliable traffic conditions and quality transportation

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 121 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

choices are goals of the Wasatch Choice Vision and
have been integrated throughout the process to
select and phase projects for the 2023-2050 RTP. The
2023-2050 RTP includes a variety of roadway project
types, but widening existing roads, constructing
new roads to provide greater access and alleviate
existing facilities, improving interstate and freeway
interchanges, and grade-separating railroad crossings
all contribute to reducing congestion in our Region.
The 2023-2050 RTP includes 273 miles of roadway
widening, 224 miles of new roadway construction, 40
interchange improvements, 19 new interchanges, and
25 grade-separated crossings.
Reducing single-occupancy travel can not only help
improve congestion, but can also help improve
our Region’s air quality. High-occupancy vehicle
(HOV) lanes are mandated by the Federal Highway
Administration (FHWA) to have travel speeds greater
than general purpose lanes on the interstate during
the peak hour, providing an incentive to carpool. The
2023-2050 RTP includes 88 miles of additional HOV
lanes. In addition, the roadway project prioritization
includes whether projects accommodate transit and
active transportation. The 2023-2050 RTP includes
over 470 miles of additional transit, and over 1,200
miles of additional active transportation facilities.
With the high rate of single-occupancy vehicle travel
in the Region, it is safe to conclude anyone traveling
by transit, biking, or walking is taking one more car
off the road thus improving congestion conditions for
those who drive.

Transit Performance Measures
There are two federal transit performance measures
- SGR and safety. Table 30 shows the state of good
repair (SGR) measures, targets, and reporting by
mode.
As shown in Table 30, UTA meets its targets for
rolling stock and facilities. UTA did not meet two of
its targets for infrastructure restrictions. Due to our
mountainous area, sometimes erosion, weather, or
other issues can result in speed restrictions. However,
UTA has recently installed positive train control and
other rehabilitation projects. UTA did not meet its
targets for equipment, primarily due to the number of
vehicles purchased as part of UTA’s 2015 rail expansion
program. Maintaining funding levels will be critical
for UTA replacing end-of-life no-revenue vehicles. In
developing the 2023-2050 RTP, WFRC worked closely
with UTA to incorporate state of good repair costs
into financial planning. UTA replaces buses and other

revenue vehicles every year on an annual basis and
forecasts upcoming fleet purchases. Costs for every
transit project included the costs required to keep the
project in a state of good repair until the 2023-2050
RTP horizon year.
Transit projects within the 2023-2050 RTP were
prioritized based on the walkability and connectivity
of the project area, in order to support safe, multimodal travel. Additionally, it is assumed that future
transit projects would be built and operated to include
safety features such as well-lit shelters and sidewalk
bulb outs and marked pedestrian crossings when
applicable. A 2016 study conducted by the American
Public Transportation Association (APTA) found
that commuters can decrease their risk of being in a
travel-related accident by as much as 90 percent by
choosing to take transit over driving. The construction
and utilization of our transit system therefore, on
the whole, contributes to the overall safety of our
transportation system.

Social Impacts and Benefits
Transit, roadway, and active transportation projects
and facilities identified in the 2023-2050 RTP are
socially beneficial. Such improvements help people
travel to destinations they want to reach while
providing choices for how and when trips are made.
Projects in all modes increase access to social,
educational, and job opportunities. Road projects
enable people who own vehicles to travel long
distances in minimal amounts of time while also
providing for the increased movement of goods
and services. Transit projects not only provide an
alternative to vehicle travel during peak commute
periods, but also throughout the day. They are
especially beneficial to people who reside in one-car
or zero-car households. Additionally, the efficiency
of moving people that transit provides is important
for air quality and traffic congestion. Biking and
walking are universally recognized for their benefits
to individual and community health across all
demographic groups. They improve air quality and
decrease traffic congestion while increasing physical
activity and decreasing healthcare costs and they
bring recreational opportunities to the front door
of Utah residents. Biking and walking are also very
inexpensive compared to other modes of travel.
However, the construction of projects does have the
potential, without proper implementation, of having
adverse social effects on existing urban areas and

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 122 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

Table 30. Federally Required Transit Performance Measures and Targets
PERFORMANCE MEASURE

MODE

TRANSIT
SERVICE AREA
TARGET1

ACTUAL

STATUS

State of Good Repair

Rolling stock: Percent of revenue
vehicles (by type) that exceeded their
Useful Life Benchmark

Facilities: Percent of facilities (by
group) with a condition rating
below 3.0 on the Transit Economic
Requirements Model scale

Infrastructure: Percent of track
segments (by mode) with performance
restrictions

Equipment: Percent of non-revenue
vehicles (by type) that exceeded their
Useful Life Benchmark

Articulated bus

0%

0%

Over-the-road bus

<35%

31.2%

Bus

<15%

13.0%

Cutaway bus

<15%

0%

Light rail vehicle

0%

0%

Commuter rail locomotive

0%

0%

Commuter rail passenger
coach

<40%

30.9%

Van

<30%

11.8%

Passenger/parking facilities

<5%

0%

Maintenance/
administrative facilities

0%

0%

Commuter rail

<5%

18%

Light rail

<10%

55%

Streetcar

<10%

0%

Automobile

<35%

3.0%

Trucks & other rubber tire
vehicles

<35%

66.9%

Steel wheel vehicles

<35%

100%

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 123 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

Safety
Avoidable accident rate per 100,000
miles

Bus

<1.00

0.68

Reportable accident rate per 100,000
miles

FrontRunner

<0.50

0.72

Bus

<0.20

0.12

Light rail

<1.10

0.43

Bus

0.00

0.00

Light rail

0.00

0.08

FrontRunner

0.00

0.30

Bus

<0.35

0.28

Light rail

<2.50

2.49

Bus

>18,000 miles

19,506

Light rail

>7,000 miles

19,543

FrontRunner

>14,000 miles

38,472

Paratransit

>23,000 miles

719,967

All modes

<0.75

N/A

Injuries per 100,000 miles

Fatalities per 100,000 miles

Safety events per 100,000 miles

Mean distance between major
mechanical failures

Total employee industrial injuries per
100 employees
1. WFRC concurs with all UTA targets.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 124 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

on future development. Negative social impacts
include increased noise, neighborhood disruption, and
residential and commercial dislocations. Additionally,
certain projects can create barriers, such as expanded
roadways or new highways, to forms of mobility like
walking and biking. When such projects are built, it
is imperative that the mitigation of these impacts
is included in the project design. Transit and biking
projects can have the perceived effect of increased
gentrification of certain neighborhoods as well. Public
investment in any of the travel modes needs to serve
people climbing the social ladder so that they may
participate fully in the social and economic fabric of
our communities.

Economic Impacts and Benefits
Consistent with the Wasatch Choice Vision, WFRC
believes in a transportation network that enhances
the regional economy. To this end, WFRC seeks to
improve mobility and make transportation investment
and land use decisions that retain and recruit
businesses, labor, and keep the Region an affordable
place to live and do business.
Through the public involvement process, the 20232050 RTP sought to gain a better understanding of
transportation related economic needs, impacts, and
benefits from a variety of stakeholders. The 20232050 RTP will continue to inform the Comprehensive
Economic Development Strategy (CEDS) as one
of the three legs upon which the Wasatch Choice
Vision is based. One of the Wasatch Front Economic
Development District (WFEDD) objectives is to
encourage development near transportation hubs
and along public transit corridors. Another objective
is to promote multi-modal transportation options,
especially those that encourage and promote existing
corridors. The State of Utah has worked hard to
improve its transportation infrastructure in order to
allow Utah to better support large consumer markets
and population centers by the development of Utah’s
Coordinated Action Plan for Economic Vision 2030,
allocations of funding, and notably passing significant
station-area planning (SAP) legislation in the 2022
Legislative Session.

Access to Opportunities

purpose of transportation - to help people go
to desired destinations and return. It is also one
important measure of how well the transportation
system helps the economy thrive. Improving job
accessibility for homes is similar to improving labor
and patron accessibility to businesses – a better score
means a broader pool of potential employees, more
patrons that can access a business easily, and also
relates to freight movement considerations.
Access to opportunities is a key performance measure
of the 2023-2050 RTP and the Wasatch Choice Vision.
The 2023-2050 RTP uses access to opportunities in
project selection, project prioritization, and overall
system performances. Analysis done was on a
composite network and assumed a decay function
to weigh jobs - jobs that could be reached in a
shorter travel time were weighed more than jobs
that had a longer travel time. It was determined that
implementation of the transportation and land use
in the 2023-2050 RTP improves job accessibility for
both roads and transit when compared to today, with
an additional 68,000 jobs (30 percent increase) and
10,000 jobs (71 percent increase) accessible, via roads
and transit, respectively.

Redevelopment
The centers-based land use assumptions for the
2023-2050 RTP include growth of housing units and
commercial space through infill and redevelopment.
Between 2014 and 2019, approximately 29 percent of
the Region’s housing growth occurred through infill.
The 2023-2050 RTP supports this pattern of infill and
redevelopment and it is consistent with the feedback
received through the planning process. Growth in infill
and redevelopment helps cities and towns update and
revitalize commercial and mixed use areas protecting
against deterioration as buildings age and become
obsolete. Infill or redevelopment also takes growth
pressure off lower density neighborhoods and rural
areas. Generally, having a higher percentage of our
growth occur in Wasatch Choice Vision Centers means
more people have easy access to jobs and services.
Infill/redevelopment reduces the need to build new
infrastructure, reduces average driving distances, and
tends to enable more people to use transit, bike, and
walk. Fundamentally, it also improves job accessibility
helping residents more easily and effectively
participate in the economy.

Improving the ability of residents to travel to jobs,
education, and other opportunities in a reasonable
amount of time can be thought of as the basic

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 125 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

Impacts to Title VI and
Environmental Justice Populations
WFRC utilized demographic information throughout
the entire 2023-2050 RTP process, including screening
roadway projects that may adversely impact access
to opportunities for EFA populations, and planning
transit and active transportation projects that
would provide transportation choices in critical
neighborhoods.
Supporting residents to access jobs and educational
opportunities is a powerful tool to promote
equity, and for helping residents to find economic
opportunities and escape poverty. To understand how
well the future transportation system will support
residents in accessing opportunities that will promote
a high quality of life, WFRC analyzed the impact the
of each project on the 2023-2050 RTP to access to
opportunity for residents living in neighborhoods
with high concentrations of minority and low-income
households (termed EFA Communities) to reach
employment and educational opportunities based on
a project-level analysis.

Environmental Impacts and
Benefits
NEPA Principles and Requirements
During the preparation of the 2023-2050 RTP, certain
aspects and principles derived from the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) were considered
and incorporated into the planning process. In total,
these actions meet and exceed the federal planning
and environmental requirements found in the Code
of Federal Regulations (CFR) - 23 CFR Part 450. A
number of environmental factors, or categories to
be considered, and types of analyses required by
NEPA were utilized, such as the manner of describing
project purpose and need, safety and security,
economic development, land use, alternatives
analysis, and core system performance measures.
Systems proposed for and projects selected for
inclusion in the 2023-2050 RTP were evaluated for
their potential impact on the environment.
Projects included in the 2023-2050 RTP have
been analyzed for environmental suitability and
vulnerability. Environmental suitability analysis
seeks to examine potential environmental issues

and sensitive areas to show which corridors have the
highest – and lowest – potential for environmental
impacts from transportation projects. Potential
environmental issues and sensitive areas include
hydrological areas; habitat and wildlife areas;
hazardous materials/contaminated sites; cultural and
historic resources; environmental justice consideration
areas; open space, parks, and recreation areas;
agricultural and farmland; and land use. Vulnerable
transportation assets analysis seeks to understand
what areas would be impacted from environmental
abnormalities and/or disasters, such as those resulting
from climate change, like increased snowmelt,
mudslide areas from forest fires, or earthquakes, to
determine what projects may be most vulnerable to
changes in our environments. These environmental
analyses are done on a high-level and projects in the
2023-2050 RTP are still subject to the rigors of a full
NEPA process before design and construction can
commence. More information about the planned
transportation system’s impacts to the environment
and resiliency with future climate changes can be
found in Appendix M: System Resiliency.
Local emission impacts from mobile, area, and point
sources can affect climate change. By investing
in transit and active transportation network
development, as well as encouraging center-based
land use development, emissions per capita can be
reduced, which can affect climate change, at least at
the local and regional levels.

Green Infrastructure
Green infrastructure is an interconnected network
of natural systems that provide a diverse range of
environmental, social, recreational, psychological,
public health, and economic benefits. The natural
systems that make up green infrastructure include
features such as forest preserves, historic sites,
agricultural lands, rivers, wetlands, parks, and nature
reserves. The term “green infrastructure” originated
in the strategic conservation planning field led by
The Conservation Fund and the U.S. Forest Service.
Their emphasis was primarily on forests, wetlands,
and large natural areas. These agencies propose
that natural systems are identified as infrastructure
because they support essential ecosystem functions
upon which all life depends. Large protected and
connected areas are the foundation for a sustainable
green infrastructure network.
Connectivity is important in planning for and
upgrading man-made infrastructure (gray
infrastructure) such as roads, storm drains, sewers,

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 126 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

utilities and levees. This large scale connected
approach is just as important in understanding and
improving green infrastructure. An interconnected
system allows for greater vitality, value and function of
ecological, hydrological, recreational, and agricultural
networks, promoting the economy and contributing to
the health and quality of life of residents.

Benefits of Green Infrastructure
Green infrastructure benefits a large number of people
in the Wasatch Front in numerous ways. It enhances
public health and safety through increased access
or availability of parks, trails, walking paths, trees,
recreation areas, and wildfire suppression. It can
provide a natural method for capturing and cleansing
drinking water and stormwater. It can promote healthy
food production through increased community
supported agriculture, pocket gardens, and the
protection or preservation of agricultural lands and
prime farmland soil. Green infrastructure can also
mitigate flood hazards through the implementation of
natural storm water detention basins.
Some green infrastructure benefits, such as water
purification, nutrient storage and cycling, flood
attenuation, soil generation, and carbon sequestration
are necessary functions that otherwise would be
ignored or provided by constructing expensive gray
infrastructure systems. The ecosystem benefits
provided by green infrastructure have considerable
financial value when compared with the costs of
generating equivalent benefits from gray infrastructure.

Green Infrastructure and
Transportation Planning
If green infrastructure and gray infrastructure are
considered as two different systems within the
same overarching network, then green infrastructure
planning and transportation planning are simply two
strategies for assessing and improving the same
interconnected regional network. The tenets of
green infrastructure can help practitioners more fully
understand the benefits of an integrated planning
approach and vice versa. In other words, green
and gray infrastructure function together; they are
inherently connected, and practitioners should be
able to draw from both fields to understand the
complexities of the urban landscape and the potential
benefits afforded by increased connectivity.

System Management Review
Demand Management
TDM strategies include approaches such as
transit service in all its forms, ridesharing,
flextime, telecommuting, pedestrian and bicycle
accommodations, growth management, and
congestion pricing. Most of these strategies are
currently utilized in the existing transportation
network. Increased implementation of these
strategies is needed to provide a full range of options
to the traveling public, as well as to improve access
and mobility. TDM strategies have been considered
and incorporated in different planning activities
associated with the 2023-2050 RTP.

Congestion Management Systems
As part of the CMP, WFRC reviewed projected
roadway congestion conditions and identified a
number of locations where congestion mitigation is
or may be needed. The CMP involves an evaluation of
Transportation System Management (TSM) strategies,
such as signal coordination, intersection widening,
and access management, and TDM strategies,
including ridesharing, HOV lanes, and telecommuting,
as potential solutions to regional congestion rather
than increasing highway capacity. Locations have
been identified where TSM and TDM strategies
can delay or eliminate the need for new capacity.
Where these strategies cannot meet the projected
travel demand, the need for new capacity is noted.
Whenever additional capacity is added, TDM efforts to
reduce demand are employed when possible, and the
transportation system made as efficient as possible
by applying TSM strategies in order to maximize the
effectiveness of new capacity and minimize the need
for future capital investments in highways. More
information on the CMP can be found in Appendix K:
Congestion Management Process.

Mobility Management
WFRC works with its partners to encourage mobility
management, or coordination among human
service transportation providers. The Human
Service Transportation Coordination Presidential
Executive Order 13330 recognized the critical role of
transportation in providing access to employment,
medical and health care, education, and other
community services and amenities. It is noted that the

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 127 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

development, implementation, and maintenance of
responsive, comprehensive, coordinated community
transportation systems is essential for persons with
disabilities, persons with low incomes, and older
adults who rely on transportation to fully participate in
their communities. These populations are collectively
referred to as EFA populations by WFRC.
The 2022-2025 Coordinated Human Services
Transportation Plans were prepared principally by UTA
with input from members of the Local Coordinating
Councils, which include human service transportation
providers, WFRC, and other agencies. The full
Coordinated Human Service Transportation Plans
are included in Appendix L: 2022-2025 Coordinated
Human Services Transportation Plans. The 20222025 Coordinated Human Services Transportation
Plans identified needs and gaps in transportation
services for seniors and people with disabilities in
Weber, Davis, Salt Lake, and Utah Counties, and will
be used to guide the work of these local councils
in increasing the coordination of human services
transportation and improving mobility throughout
the region, including allocation of the Federal Transit
Administration (FTA) 5310 grant funding.

Freight Needs
The efficient movement of freight is a critical
component of a healthy economy and a key indicator
of a well-planned transportation system. As the
“Crossroads of the West” for several transportation
modes, the Wasatch Front Region plays a major
role in the movement of freight across the United
States. Approximately 236 million tons of freight
valued at about $250 billion was transported into,
out of, through, and within Utah in 2017, much of
it originating, terminating, or circulating within the
Wasatch Front. While the system is multi-modal, one
of the largest freight activities in the region is trucks,
which account for about 54 percent of the total
weight and 64 percent of total value of goods moving
into, out of, through, and within the region. This
demand is expected to grow significantly between
now and 2050.
The expected increase in freight demand in the
WFRC region is being driven and/or exacerbated by
several social, demographic, and economic trends in
the region, including population growth, changing
housing and land use patterns, and changes in
customer and retail behavior. E-commerce has also
expanded significantly over the last ten years and
accelerated rapidly at the onset of the COVID-19
pandemic in early 2020, as shown in Figure 21.

E-commerce is predicted to continue growing at an
annual rate of 14 percent over through 2027, which
will have significant impacts on consumer purchasing
trends as well as the freight transportation network.
WFRC has also historically worked in close
cooperation with UDOT in developing the Utah Freight
Plan and continues to do so. The Utah Freight Plan
was funded by UDOT and subject to approval by the
United States Department of Transportation (USDOT)
through FHWA and works with all the agencies to
convene the Statewide Freight Advisory Committee
as required in developing the Utah Freight Plan. Map
19 provides a high-level overview of Critical Urban
Freight Corridors in the Wasatch Front, which were
identified during the 2022 Utah Freight Plan Update.
The railroad industry continues to play a vital role
in the movement of freight to and through Utah.
Currently, local and national railroads are the number
two freight carriers in Utah, behind trucking and
ahead of pipelines. The Wasatch Front is a hub for six
railroad routes, all of which are owned and operated
by the Union Pacific Railroad. Utah sits astride both
Union Pacific Railroad central corridor routes linking
northern California and the Midwest, with other
routes radiating out from northern Utah rail terminals
to Pocatello, Idaho and the Pacific Northwest, as
well as Southern California. Finally, there are two
passenger rail services that operate in Wasatch
Front Region - Amtrak, for cross country travel, and
UTA’s FrontRunner, a regional commuter service that
operates from Ogden to Provo City. Finally, the Salt
Lake City Intermodal Terminal (SLCIT), built in 2006,
receives about 500 trailer and container lifts per day,
mostly from the Ports of Los Angeles, Long Beach,
and Oakland. The SLCIT is located directly adjacent
to the City’s west side warehousing and distribution
center and in close proximity to three of Utah’s
primary freight network highways and the Salt Lake
International Airport. UDOT adopted the Utah State
Rail Plan in April 2015.
In addition to the transportation facilities that serve
freight needs, major distribution points also exist in
the Wasatch Front that include the Utah Inland Port,
the Freeport Center, and the Business Depot Ogden,
each of which has significant land footprints (9,000;
740; and 1,118 acres, respectively) and host tenants
such as Northrop Grumman, Lifetime Products, Home
Depot, and Matco Tools. Finally, the region is home to
a number of distribution and warehousing clusters,
including new Albertson’s and Amazon distribution
hubs in North Salt Lake City and industrial land uses
are expected to grow significantly by 2050.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 128 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

Figure 21. E-Commerce Retail Sales as a Percent of Total Sales

Mobility for the logistics workforce can be particularly
challenging as many employment hubs for industrial
land uses are not fully accessible by transit and work
schedules do not always align with regular transit
service. The desire for increased e-commerce, as
well as having employment accessible to workers
continues to be a challenge for many industrial areas
around the region. WFRC undertook an Urban Freight
and Local Delivery Study which looks at some of these
challenges and opportunities in further detail.

Safety Issues and Concerns
UDOT collects data on roadway crashes and reports
for each roadway segment a “safety index,” which
also incorporates the severity of the crash. The Safety
Index can be helpful for identifying where safety
issues may be a concern, but often the crash data
becomes more of a reflection of traffic volume, or
a random display of where the most recent crashes
have occurred.
UDOT has also invested considerable resources and
is a national leader in identifying safety needs in the
roadway system using the usRAP. The usRAP model
makes a thorough inventory of roadway assets by
video inspection. The state and local road inventory
for the Wasatch Front was completed in 2018.
Based on the roadway assets, traffic volumes, and
historical crashes, the usRAP program can assign a
safety attribute star rating to each roadway segment,
evaluate the benefit/cost of various crash mitigation
strategies, and even estimate the number of lives that
can be saved.

This asset-based approach to safety improvements
is a much better fit with the transportation planning
process. The usRAP program will facilitate the
identification of safety improvement needs in the
roadway system rather than unwittingly assigning
priority to projects with the highest volumes or the
most intersections and hence the greatest potential
for crashes. For the 2023-2050 RTP, the usRAP model
was used to identify the Star rating for the roadway
segments underlying each proposed project. RTP
projects were ranked according to Star rating, and
weighted by traffic volume. Projects with the highest
rank (meaning those projects with the greatest
need and potential to implement crash mitigation
strategies), were given the lowest Star rating,
indicating the greatest potential safety improvement
as shown in Map 20.
The black and red segments (Star rating 1 and 2)
of the usRAP Roadway Safety Rating (Star rating),
identifies those roadway segments that are deficient
in certain safety attributes relative to other roadways
with similar functional classification and operating
characteristics. This is not to say that roadways with
Star ratings of 1 or 2 are inherently unsafe, it only
indicates that there may be opportunities to make this
roadway safer with state of the art safety strategies
found on similar roadways. The Star rating is used in
this fashion as one of several criteria for scoring and
prioritizing projects in the RTP. In addition to project
selection and prioritization, WFRC also addresses
safety concerns at the project implementation
phase. The Transportation Improvement Program
(TIP) evaluates crash history and Star rating among
other factors in the process for selecting projects

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 129 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

Map 19. Critical Urban Freight Corridors

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 130 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

to be funded for construction in the next five years.
When these projects are ready to be implemented,
WFRC invites UDOT traffic and safety engineers to
the project orientation meeting to recommend and
coordinate crash mitigation strategies to be included
in the project.
Figure 22 shows the trend of roadway crashes per one
million vehicle miles traveled (VMT) (crash rate) and
fatalities per 100 million VMT (or fatality rate) for the
State of Utah compared with other state and national
fatality trends and VMT. While it is encouraging that
the crash rate is on a declining trend, fatal and serious
injury crashes for the State of Utah have increased in
the last three years as shown in Figure 23. Vulnerable
road users including pedestrians, bicyclists, and
motorcycles are a segment of roadway users that
require special attention as more emphasis is placed
on active transportation modes often used to access
public transit.
Increased investments and emphasis on transit
use and non-motorized travel has produced more
pedestrian and bicycle travel. Coupled with an
ever growing volume of traffic, there is increased
exposure to these vulnerable travel modes. Figure
24 shows fatal and serious injury crashes by mode.
Safer facilities to accommodate non-motorized
travel will need greater emphasis throughout the
implementation of the 2023-2050 RTP. The recent
increase in pedestrian and bicyclist fatalities is shown
in Figure 25.

Homeland Security Needs
The Wasatch Front Region is oftentimes referred to
as the “Crossroads of the West.” Because the Rocky
Mountains bisect the entire western portion of the
United States (north-south), there are only five
interstate facilities that allow east-west travel across
this portion of the country. Of those facilities, I-80 is
the most centrally located, running through Salt Lake
City and connecting New York, Chicago, Omaha, Salt
Lake City, and San Francisco. Similarly, I-15 is one of
only three north-south interstate facilities west of
the Mississippi River that extend to the northern and
southern borders of the United States. Designated
as part of the CanaMex Transportation Corridor, I-15’s
regional impacts along the Wasatch Front are ever
increasing. Paralleling the Rocky Mountains, it too
passes through the Wasatch Front Region intersecting
I-80 in the Salt Lake Valley and I-84 in Weber County.
In developing the RTP, the distinctive topography
of the Region must be taken into account. I-15, I-80,
and I-84 all enter and exit the Region through narrow
corridors constrained by the natural topography.
These constrained corridors, both north-south
and east-west, include one freeway (I-15, I-80, or
I-84), railroad lines (freight and passenger), power
corridor(s), frontage road(s), and one or two parallel
arterials. The east-west corridors are similarly
constrained by high mountain passes and the Great
Salt Lake.

Figure 22. Roadway Crashes per Million Vehicle Miles

https://www.udot.utah.gov/strategic-direction/zero-fatalities.html

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 131 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

Map 20. usRAP Roadway Safety “Star” Rating

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 132 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

Figure 23. Fatal and Serious Injury Crashes

https://www.udot.utah.gov/shsp/evaluation.html

The air corridors are also severely restricted as
access to the Salt Lake City International Airport
(SLCIA) is limited to north-south approaches. These
approaches are further impacted by the confined air
space bounded by mountains on the east and west.
The restrictive natural topography affecting surface
transportation in all cardinal directions from Salt Lake
City and the availability of limited air space are the
basis of the need for more redundancy within the
transportation system throughout the Region.
In considering the convergence of two interstate
highways, the nation-wide railroads, and an
international airport along the Wasatch Front, it
becomes very evident that the regional transportation
facilities have national significance. This importance is
further increased when consideration is given to the
physical constraints of the topography and potential
for natural disasters. These conditions quickly raise
awareness and concerns about the possible impact
disruptions in the Region’s transportation systems
could have, not only on local and regional populations,
but on the national transportation industry and
security interests as well.
The national significance of this “Crossroads of
the West,” coupled with restrictive topography

and potential for natural disasters, demonstrate a
need for additional regional transportation facilities
to serve increasing regional travel demands. It
bolsters the rationale for long-range transportation
planning, adding new capacity and improvement of
current facilities, and elimination of choke points
in transportation corridors. In order to effectively
address regional security needs, a concerted
effort must continue at all levels of government
and industry within the Wasatch Front Region to
develop an awareness of the potential dangers that
exist to transportation systems. A consensus must
be reached on what elements of security incident
prevention and mitigation, including consideration
and implementation of specific projects, strategies,
and services will best address the security needs of
the transportation system for motorized and nonmotorized users. Well-defined and agreed-upon
strategies should be incorporated into the state and
metropolitan area’s transportation planning processes.
Regional security goals at the metropolitan planning
level are based, in-part, on improved communication
and coordination between the increasing number
of agencies involved with security and emergency
preparedness. As a component of the coordination
effort, several plans should be considered for

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 133 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

Figure 24. Fatal and Serious Injury Crashes by Mode, 2000-2021

https://www.udot.utah.gov/strategic-direction/zero-fatalities.html

Figure 25. Pedestrian Fatal and Serious Injury Crashes, 2014-2022

https://www.udot.utah.gov/shsp/pedestriansafety.html

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 134 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

review and update. These plans include, but are not
limited to, a public transit emergency management
operations and recovery plan; a fuel shortage plan;
emergency operations plans at local, regional, and
state levels; and communications plans. Conducting
simulations and exercising these plans is needed to
determine their operational benefits and shortfalls.

System Resiliency
In 2020, residents along the Wasatch Front experienced
two events that reinforced the need to plan for
resiliency - the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic,
followed by the magnitude 5.7 earthquake just north of
Magna. In addition, 2011 was the last year that nowhere
in Utah was considered in drought for part of the year.
The most intense period of drought occurred the
week of January 19, 2021, where exceptional drought
affected 70 percent of Utah land4. As our population
grows and our transportation system expands to
accommodate that growth, one challenge we face is
how to grow in a way that minimizes environmental
impacts and prepares the system to be more resilient
to a changing environment.
Transportation security refers to infrastructure
protection and emergency response. Are we
safeguarding our transportation system and ready to
respond when something happens?
Resilience refers to the ability to prepare for changing
conditions and withstand, respond to, and recover
from disruptions. Are we planning for how to prepare
for, and recover from, what may happen in the future?
Resiliency is the ability to anticipate, prepare for,
adapt to, withstand, and recover from disruptions
and changing conditions. At its core, the resiliency of
the transportation infrastructure system allows the
Region to maintain essential services in the event
of a human-caused or natural disaster, such as an
earthquake. But a resilient system can also withstand
not only a single event, but also a series of events or
a permanent change in the environment, such as a
major landslide.
The distinctive regional topography constraining the
transportation network has a conspicuous impact
on the entire Wasatch Front Region in the form of
natural hazards. The steep slopes of the Wasatch
Mountain Range were created by the Wasatch Fault,
which runs the entire length of the Urbanized Areas.
The Wasatch Fault and other nearby faults highlight
the potential for earthquakes in the area and the need

to consider their possible impact on transportation
facilities. Many historic buildings were impacted by
the 2020 earthquake, including the 126-year-old Salt
Lake City Hall.
The Wasatch Mountains provide a winter wonderland
for outdoor enthusiasts, but snowfall can also impact
the area in more harmful ways. A winter of heavy
snowfall followed by a spring of quick melting can
overwhelm the area’s creeks, streams, and rivers
and cause widespread flooding. Lack of snowfall
and rain can also provide the perfect conditions for
destructive wildfires, resulting in losses to life and
property. Dam failures and landslides can also impact
development and transportation in the Region.
Winter avalanches and spring runoff are major
concerns in the Wasatch Front Region after historic
snowfall in the winter of 2023.
Resiliency expands beyond natural disasters to also
include one-time events. For example, conferences,
sporting events, or other large events where many
people who do not normally congregate, come
together all at once. The Region can accommodate
these issues through managed motorway projects,
better street connectivity, a gridded transit network,
and safe bicycling facilities. These are some of the
projects planned for the future that can provide
resiliency and redundancy in the system and allow the
Region’s communities to handle anomalies of higher
travel demand. At the operational level, Intelligent
Transportation System (ITS) has been implemented,
and will continue to expand, to facilitate the reliability,
robustness, and resiliency of the transportation
infrastructure system and to maintain essential
services needed to preserve confidence in the
transportation system during large events or in the
event of a man-caused or natural disaster.
With a prominent geological fault paralleling the
foothills of the Wasatch Mountains throughout the
Region, the effects of an earthquake or other natural
disasters, including severe weather conditions, on
the resiliency of the transportation system must
also be taken into consideration. Many in the Region
are aware of these potential hazards and have
worked to develop plans and approaches to keep our
transportation system safe and operational.
See Appendix M: System Resiliency for more
information about how the Region’s transportation
system is prepared for resiliency and how the
projects with the 2023-2050 RTP are vulnerable to
changing landscapes.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 135 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

Air Quality Conformity
Determination

Federal Highway Administration
Planning Factors

Davis and Salt Lake Counties, Ogden City, and
portions of Weber, Box Elder, and Tooele Counties
are designated as non-attainment (or maintenance)
areas for one or more air pollutants. Specifically, there
are five areas in the Wasatch Front Region which are
subject to air quality conformity regulations. These
areas are listed in Table 31.

The United States Congress, through the
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA), MAP21, and FAST Act, identified ten planning factors
for consideration in the development of long-range
transportation plans, as noted in 23 CRF 450. These
factors are designed to assist planners in developing
comprehensive solutions to area transportation
needs. The FAST Act planning factors for improving
transportation system management, operation,
efficiency, and safety are consistent with the goals
and objectives of the 2023–2050 RTP. The following
paragraphs list the ten planning factors and describe
how the 2023–2050 RTP has considered each
requirement.

An analysis of projected vehicle related emissions from
the transportation network, as defined in the RTP,
shows that vehicle emissions will pass the conformity
tests for each of the non-attainment areas along the
Wasatch Front. The analysis demonstrating conformity
is contained in “Air Quality Memorandum #41.”

Vehicle Emission Modeling
Vehicle emissions were estimated using the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) approved
MOVES3.1 model. Data from the WFRC TDM version
9.0 was used to describe the transportation network
for the analysis years 2019, 2023, 2028, 2032, 2042,
and 2050. The TDM provides data for VMT and vehicle
hours of travel (VHT) distribution by hour, speed, and
highway facility type for each analysis year. Local data
was prepared to determine the age distribution of the
vehicle fleet using Department of Motor Vehicle (DMV)
data for 2017, and the vehicle type distribution using
UDOT vehicle classification counts for 2017. Local
vehicle inspection and maintenance programs for each
county were also coded for input to the MOVES3.1
model.

01 Support the economic vitality of
the metropolitan area, especially by
enabling global competitiveness,
productivity, and efficiency.
The 2023–2050 RTP provides a network of improved
transportation facilities - roadway, transit, and
active transportation - which are essential to the
economic vitality of the Region. The 2023–2050
RTP calls for the modernization of a critical portion
of the local interstate freeway system, an improved
regional roadway network, more efficient regional
commuter rail, the extension of the light rail system,
strategic BRT, a core network of bus service, and
robust, safe active transportation system. The
2023-2050 RTP pays increased attention to access
to opportunity and the linkages between land use,
economic development, and transportation through
the Wasatch Choice Vision. In doing so, the 2023-

Table 31. Wasatch Front Region Non-Attainment Designations
AREA

DESIGNATION

POLLUTANT

Ogden City

Moderate Non-attainment Area

Particulate Matter (PM10)

Multiple-Occupancy Vehicle

Moderate Non-attainment Area

Particulate Matter (PM10)

Salt Lake (including Davis, Salt Lake, and portions
Weber, Box Elder, and Tooele Counties)

SeriousNon-attainment Area

Particulate Matter (PM2.5)

Northern Wasatch Front (including Salt Lake, Davis,
and portions of Weber and Tooele Counties)

Moderate Non-attainment Area

Ozone (O3)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 136 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

2050 RTP improves the ability of both the workforce
to reach a higher proportion of jobs within typical
commute times and businesses to reach a higher
proportion of the workforce and potential patrons.
This improved accessibility benefits both individuals
who rely on private automobiles and for persons using
public transportation. Improved local and regional
accessibility and connections to large employment
centers, business districts, commercial developments,
industrial parks, educational institutions,
neighborhoods, and area airports will promote the
Wasatch Front Region’s competitiveness, productivity,
and efficiency. Additionally, the improved active
transportation system will aid in employee attraction,
retention, and health outcomes, which all support this
planning factor.

02 Increase the safety of the
transportation system for motorized
and non-motorized users.
The roadway, transit, and active transportation
facilities proposed in the 2023–2050 RTP will increase
the safety of motorized and non-motorized users
through new construction and other improvement
projects. Safety was a key project selection and
phasing criteria across all three modes discussed
in the 2023-2050 RTP and safety issues are given
due consideration through WFRC’s Transportation
Improvement Program (TIP) project selection criteria.
Controlling facility access, managing congestion,
reducing traffic choke points, and modernizing
the design of facilities improves overall network
safety. The 2023–2050 RTP also identifies regionally
important bicycle facilities. Improved bike routes
focusing on increased separation from vehicle traffic
are prioritized, increasing the ability to bicycle safely.
Additionally, identifying crossing improvements of
major roadway and rail facilities for people walking and
biking is an important aspect of the RTP, improving
safety for all non-motorized users.

03 Increase security of the
transportation system for motorized
and non-motorized users.
WFRC continues to coordinate its planning
processes with the Utah State Division of Public
Safety and Homeland Security and with the Utah
Local Governments Association for Emergency
Services and Security in an effort to identify security

issues regarding the transportation system. Both
UDOT and UTA have established plans that address
emergency and security issues. The roadway, transit,
and active transportation recommendations in the
2023–2050 RTP will increase security for motorized
and non-motorized users through maintenance
and preservation, new construction, improvement
projects, and the expansion of Intelligent
Transportation System (ITS), which will help to provide
alternative routes and modes, especially through
confined regional corridors and area choke points and
thereby decreasing the likelihood of a catastrophic
system failure.
Security is an important consideration in designing
and operating UTA’s public transportation services.
UTA employs security personnel to ensure the safety
of its patrons, and has installed security cameras at
stations, on all UTA buses and on most trains. Parkand-ride lots and station platforms are well lit and
frequently patrolled and finally, emergency call boxes
are installed at every station.
UDOT also continues to embrace security of the
transportation system through improvements to their
incident management practices, Utah Highway Patrol
(UHP), and ITS program. Recommended improvements
for the ITS including “Commuter Link” which provides
valuable information to users. ITS will continue to be
improved with additional sensors, and use of the 511
Travel Information Line. Integrally linked to the ITS
system, the UDOT Traffic Operations Center (TOC) is
able to monitor smaller traffic control centers in Salt
Lake City, Salt Lake County, and UTA to improve the
security of critical motorways along the Wasatch Front.

04 Increase the accessibility and
mobility of people and freight.
Accessibility and mobility are at the heart of three
goals of the 2023–2050 RTP: “access to economic
and educational opportunities,” “manageable
and reliable traffic conditions,” and “quality
transportation choices.” The roadway, transit, and
active transportation improvements recommended
in the 2023–2050 RTP will help improve mobility and
enhance destination accessibility. Increased mobility
is provided by a variety of travel options including
optimizing the roadway system through policies,
operational projects, and the CMP; new or widened
highways, primary arterial streets, and connections
across barriers - natural and manmade; new and
expanded light rail, BRT, core route bus service, more
efficient regional commuter rail service, and additional

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 137 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

mobility hubs and transit amenities, such as parkand-ride lots; and additional active transportation
underpasses, overpasses, and trails. The 2023–2050
RTP anticipates an increase in the number of miles of
bus service, including expansion of weekend and night
routes; additional on-demand transit service; and
additional paratransit service to major travel demand
generators. Freight movement, both interstate
and intrastate, will benefit from the reconstruction
and modernization of the local interstate system,
improvements to the regional roadway network,
conversion of at-grade intersections to interchanges,
and other access enhancements. WFRC has also
placed more focus on understanding urban goods
movement, particularly the rise of e-commerce and
local delivery, and what implications these may have
in the region’s freight network. The Region’s highway
system will continue to provide convenient access to
air cargo facilities, particularly with recently adopted
and ongoing airport master plans in the Region.
Access to opportunity played a key role in developing
and prioritizing the 2023-2050 RTP and is also
integrated into the prioritization process for the TIP.

05 Protect and enhance the
environment, promote energy
conservation, improve the quality
of life, and promote consistency
between transportation
improvements and state and local
planned growth and economic
development patterns.
The Wasatch Choice Vision process, which developed
a Vision and key strategies for future growth, includes
a significant amount of input on what kind of future
development the public would like to see. One of
the purposes of this effort was to identify quality of
life issues and establish approaches to enhance the
quality of life. WFRC developed the 2023–2050 RTP’s
recommendations for roadway, transit, and active
transportation improvements consistent with the
Wasatch Choice Vision goals and strategies to support
a high quality of life throughout the Region. State and
local plans for growth and economic development
are part of the foundation of the 2023–2050 RTP
transportation recommendations. WFRC met with
elected and appointed officials of municipalities and
counties to ensure that population, households, and
employment projections developed by WFRC are
consistent with local plans and Wasatch Choice Vision.

Concern for the environment of the Wasatch Front
Urbanized Areas is an integral part of the 2023–2050
RTP planning process. Recommended facilities are
considered with respect to environmental impacts at
the system level, utilizing maps and other information
identifying environmental concerns. As facilities are
brought forward through the planning, design, and
construction process, appropriate environmental
reviews will be conducted. By attempting to maximize
destination accessibility and minimize travel time,
energy conservation and greenhouse gases (GHG)
reduction is promoted through successful congestion
management strategies, increased system capacity,
the provision of transit alternatives, and the provision
of active transportation facilities. The 2023-2050 RTP
provides a number of recommendations for improved
regional transit in key corridors and centers, and
supports future collaborative actions to decrease SOV
trips such as transit fare programs, roadway tolling,
and dockless active transportation programs, as
well as growth strategies such as compact, centered
development. These efforts combine to enhance
mobility and accessibility to home and work, while
minimizing impacts on the natural environment and
reducing energy use.
In addition, there was renewed emphasis on
coordination with resource agencies, including a
standalone stakeholder workshop for these groups.
Appendix A: Public Comment contains a list of
agencies and comments heard at this workshop and
through additional outreach during the 2023-2050
RTP process.

06 Enhance the integration and
connectivity of the transportation
system, across and between
modes, for people and freight.
One of the 2023–2050 RTP’s goals is “quality
transportation choices,” and as such the RTP
promotes shared opportunities for multi-modal
transportation by planning east-west and north-south
core routes and BRT service to existing light and
commuter rail infrastructure, and light rail capacity
and track expansions in key dense, high-growth
areas. Future transit routes are coordinated in and to
metro, urban, city, and village centers and industry
clusters and pedestrian and bicycle connections are
planned to provide safe first-/last-mile connections to
transit facilities. The 2023-2050 RTP recommends the
development of intermodal centers, transit hubs, and
park-and-ride lots at optimum locations to improve

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 138 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

transfers and connectivity of regional transportation.
The 2023-2050 RTP also recommends improvements
to major freight corridors, as well as build out of
surface streets and railroad crossings near freight
centers, to improve mobility of goods within, to, and
from our Region.
Improvements to the active transportation network
that result in better transit station/stop accessibility
are prioritized. This enables greater access to
opportunities without dependence on personal
vehicles and allows transit to fulfill its role as the great
walk/bike trip extender. Additionally, grade separated
pedestrian/bicycle crossings of major vehicle and
freight corridors allow for the movement of people
while still allowing for the free movement of vehicles
and goods.
The 2023-2050 RTP recommends increased street
connectivity as a policy for local and regional
implementation. Street connectivity is manifest in
street networks that have short block lengths and
high intersection density. When this condition is
present, it enables people to straighter, more as the
crow flies. This shortens travel distances, reducing
VMT. It also increases the number of people with
transit access within a short walk or bike ride (again
stemming from the ability to travel more directly).
Better connectivity also results in a more balanced
distribution of traffic flows within the roadway
network, reducing travel times and delays throughout
the system. WFRC and its regional transportation
partners created a Local Street Connectivity Guide for
local governments. We will build on this work through
three approaches: assistance to local governments
through WFRC’s Transportation and Land Use
Connection (TLC) program; pursuing federal grant
opportunities to reduce barriers and better connect
communities to transit; and additional multi-modal
grid analysis in the next RTP cycle.

07 Promote efficient system
management and operations.
WFRC conducts a CMP with the purpose of
identifying where future congestion may
occur throughout the region, and encourages
implementation of transportation demand
management and system management strategies to
promote an efficient transportation network without
adding highway capacity.

The congestion management process strategies rely
on specific recommendations to be implemented
regionally, as well as within individual roadway and
transit facilities. Each facility type identified in the
2023-2050 RTP is accompanied by a list of specific
methods to improve the transportation system
efficiency. For more information on the congestion
management process, please refer to Appendix K:
Congestion Management Process.

08 Emphasize the preservation of
the existing transportation system.
There are tens of thousands of miles of existing State,
local, and transit facilities across the state and within
the WFRC Region. UDOT estimates that for every one
dollar invested in preservation now, $25 is saved in
future reconstruction. Following the good roads cost
less philosophy, one of UDOT’s strategic goals is to
preserve infrastructure, a few of the Wasatch Choice
Vision goals are in alignment, and UTA has put an
emphasis on its system and vehicles’ state of good
repair. The fiscal analysis section of the 2023–2050
RTP assures that adequate funding for maintenance,
operation, and preservation of roadway and transit
facilities are provided. This is a priority of UDOT, UTA,
and local governments. UDOT has recently updated
its asset management program that identifies funding
levels needed to maintain and preserve UDOT’s
pavements and structures, and to improve the safety
of its system and preserve infrastructure. These new
projections of funding needed to preserve the existing
system show an increase from previous estimates
and are included in the financial plan. This program,
combined with proper access management, incident
management, and the updating of signal timing, will
help preserve the existing transportation system.
The 2023-2050 RTP also recommends the future
transit system maintain a state of good repair, and
accounts for the costs associated with constructing
and maintaining new transit facilities, and the
replacement of all vehicles, operational systems,
stations, and guideway or track, when relevant, on
a regular schedule. Funding projections for transit
preservation and maintenance have been developed
in conjunction with UTA, and are accounted for as
project lifecycle costs through the 2023-2050 RTP’s
planning-year horizon. The transit portion of the
2023–2050 RTP assumes replacement of buses every
12-13 years and new rail cars every 16 years. The

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 139 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

financial plan also recommends and accounts for the
construction of additional maintenance facilities with
the construction of transit projects.

09 Improve the resiliency and
reliability of the transportation
system and reduce or mitigate
stormwater impacts of surface
transportation.
The distinctive regional topography and associated
climates have a conspicuous impact on the entire
Wasatch Front Region in the form of natural hazards
- earthquakes, landslides, flooding, heavy snowfall,
and wildfires, to name a few. The transportation
system needs to be able to withstand and provide
support when a human-made or natural disaster
occurs. The 2023-2050 RTP takes a comprehensive
look at resiliency in the area and where the system
may fail during a disaster. In addition to disasters, a
resilient system should be able to react to changes
in travel patterns and influxes of users. For example,
conferences, sporting events, or other large events
cause many people who do not normally congregate
to come together all at once. The managed
motorway projects, better street connectivity, a
gridded transit network, and safe bicycling facilities
are some of the projects planned for the future that
can provide resiliency and redundancy in the system
and allow the Region’s communities to handle
anomalies of higher travel demand.
Furthermore, building our transportation facilities
using green infrastructure techniques helps these
transportation facilities better withstand waterrelated events as well as avoid causing urban heat
island effects, both of which enhance long-term
community resiliency. Transportation facilities that
integrate green infrastructure also reduce run off
of pollutants into waterways and keep the natural
and built environment healthier. However, the best
way to mitigate stormwater impacts of surface
transportation is to optimize the existing system and
introduce travel demand techniques that preclude
the need for new facilities being built.

annually travel to the state with many of those visits
beginning in the Wasatch Front Region, especially
at the SLCIA. Numerous cultural events, convention
centers, industry hubs, universities, professional and
amateur sporting events, and outdoor recreation
opportunities, including many of Utah’s notable ski
resorts, are available within the Region.
A visitor’s ability to easily navigate, use, and be
efficiently moved by the multi-modal transportation
system in place is crucial to the visitor experience.
The 2023-2050 RTP considers primarily intra-regional
travel to ensure that visitors to the area have not only
great access to local attractions, but also a choice in
how they arrive. This is reflected in the road, transit,
and active transportation systems that used the
identified Wasatch Choice Vision centers as a factor
in prioritizing future transportation investment.
Additionally, the fiscal analysis provides adequate
funding for maintenance, operation, and upkeep of
roads and transit. In certain cases, the transportation
system itself is the reason for the visit. Such is the
case with the Golden Spoke Network, which is a series
of off-street, paved pathways that make up over 100
miles of trail, the longest such trail system west of the
Mississippi, and can be used for both commuting and
recreational activities.

Emphasis Areas
FHWA and FTA Offices of Plannings jointly issued
updated Planning Emphasis Areas (PEA) in
December 2021. The PEAs are areas that FHWA
and FTA field offices emphasize when meeting with
the metropolitan planning organizations, State
departments of transportation, Public Transportation
Agencies, and Federal Land Management Agency
counterparts to identify and develop tasks associated
with the Unified Planning Work Program and the
Statewide Planning and Research Program. These
PEAs include:

Tackling the Climate Crisis - Transition
to a Clean Energy, Resilient Future
»

10 Enhance travel and tourism.

»

Utah is a destination for business and thought
leaders as well as recreators and thrill seekers. Travel
and tourism accounted for $1.810 billion in state and
local tax revenue in 2021. Over 17 million visitors

»
»

Coordination with ASPIRE on U.S. Department
of Energy (DOE) and National Science
Foundation (NSF) Grants
Envision Utah Disaster Resiliency Lifeline
Infrastructure working group
Environmental Suitability and Vulnerable
Transportation Assets analysis
Water District coordination

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 140 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

Equity and Justice40 in Transportation
Planning
»
»
»
»

Establishment of and coordination with
the Wasatch Choice Community Advisory
Committee
Inclusion of EFA in the prioritization process
Access to Opportunity (ATO)
First-/Last-Mile project identification for
transit stop in identified EFAs

Complete Streets
»

»
»

»

»

Initiation of Wasatch Choice Greet Streets
initiative to improve the understanding
through analytics of the location of potential
incompatibilities between infrastructure and
adjacent land use
Local street design modifications - policies
that improve the safety of all roadway users
Vulnerable road user safety presentations in
various forums - ways to improve safety via
vehicle speed reductions or greater separation
between vulnerable users and vehicles
Participation in various studies including
UDOT Pedestrian and Bicycle Serious Injuries
and Fatalities Study; UDOT Vulnerable Road
User Safety Assessment; Move Utah Regional
Active Transportation Corridor Partnerships
Local and out-of-state Mobile Active
Transportation Tours (MATTs) - field tours
with elected officials, managers, and staff
highlighting the successes and challenges of
traveling by foot or bike

Strategic Highway Network
(STRAHNET)/U.S. Department of
Defense (DOD) Coordination
»

»
»
»
»
»
»
»
»

Federal Land Management Agency
(FLMA) Coordination
»
»

»
»
»

Public Involvement

»
»
»
»
»

Yearly public comment open houses in
coordination with the State Transportation
Improvement Programs/WFRCs Transportation
Improvement Program (STIP/TIP)
Online interactive maps with the availability to
make comments
Increase awareness via WFRC’s newsletter and
social media outlets
Leverage newly formed Wasatch Choice
Community Advisory Committee
Key stakeholder outreach efforts
Presentations and outreach at various local,
regional, statewide, and national conferences

Annual resource agencies outreach and
coordination efforts
Tri-Canyons Trail Master Plan

Planning and Environment Linkages (PEL)

»

»

Coordination with Hill Air Force Base (HAFB),
the Military Installation Development
Authority (MIDA), UDOT, UTA, and local
communities regarding:
New HAFB access / gate
Falcon Hill Development
3 Gate Trail Shared Use Path
Transit coordination
Interchange improvements
Roadway network within Falcon Hill
Redwood Road and Mountain View Corridor
coordination with Camp Williams
West Traverse Mountain Compatible Area Study

Environmental Suitability and Vulnerable
Transportation Assets analysis
Parks and Public Space community education
and coordination
Jordan River Commission Technical Advisory
Committee (TAC) participation
Participation and coordination on a variety
of planning, corridor, and environmental
documents

Data in Transportation Planning
»
»
»
»
»

Project-level ATO impact tool
WFRC Map of the Month
Online data portal
New Micro-Mobility Travel Demand Model
Bicycle Counter Program development with
partners

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 141 | 10: Present Impacts and Benefits

IMPLEMENT

Our Regional transportation system has real
impacts on the lives of Utahns.
Here’s one story:

CURTIS
Curtis was born, raised, and graduated
from school in Utah. His journey using
multiple modes of transportation has been
gradual. Ever since Curtis was 16, he drove
everywhere. But then, for an internship
during school, he lived in Washington,
D.C. for six months without a car and took
the metro or bus to get anywhere that he
needed. This effectively flipped a switch in
his young brain, allowing him to realize the
potential provided by other modes of travel.
After returning to Utah, over time, he started
to reconsider his priorities. He found a job a
little closer to transit, and gradually started
to reorient his housing and professional
placement decisions around transit stops.
Now he is lucky to have found a job with
convenient access from his home via transit.
He gets from home in Bountiful to his office
in downtown Ogden via FrontRunner,
transferring to bus or just riding his
bike on nicer days. He finds joy in
having choices to get to work
that don’t exclusively rely
on his car (which he
still owns!).

11

IMPLEMENT THE
2023-2050 RTP
Regional transportation planning, to be effective, is a continuous process.
Implementation of the 2023-2050 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) is a
cooperative effort of local, state, and federal officials. In addition to working
with various agencies and partnerships throughout the Region, the Wasatch
Front Regional Council (WFRC) has established a process to continuously
monitor the progress of transportation performance and the progress
of various transportation improvement projects. WFRC also works with
other agencies to address short-range congestion, pavement preservation,
and bridge replacement and rehabilitation needs. Various corridor and
environmental studies for major roadway and transit projects help to refine
and implement the recommendations of the 2023-2050 RTP.
Overall, implementation of the RTP comes through funding and development
of the planned projects, promoting adoption of policies by implementing
agencies, and technical assistance and training to assist the implementers.
Tracking or monitoring progress in turn helps inform implementation efforts
and future modifications to the RTP and the underlying Wasatch Choice Vision.
Finally, the RTP will be updated every four years to consider changing
development patterns, new technologies, and evolving goals and vision for
the Wasatch Front Region.

Project Development
In addition to preparing the regional transportation plan, WFRC works
continuously with the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT), the Utah
Transit Authority (UTA), and local communities on alternatives analysis,
environmental studies, corridor plans, and master plan updates. These efforts
help to develop and refine specific projects found in the 2023-2050 RTP.
These studies achieve several important goals by:
1
2
3

Better identifying project purpose, need and scope;
Better identifying needed right-of-way (ROW) for projects to allow
UDOT, UTA, and local communities to successfully pursue corridor
preservation funding; and
Better identifying roadway and transit facility alignments.

These efforts enable communities to begin planning for supporting land
uses at specific locations in order to better integrate transportation
projects into the fabric of the Region’s urban environment.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 144 | 11: Implement the 2023-2050 RTP

For many major roadway and transit improvements,
WFRC, in cooperation with state and local engineers
and planners, prepares an alternative analysis or
corridor study. The purpose of an analysis study
is to provide input when refining the regional
transportation plan and to allow for decisions to be
made on the scope of the improvement(s) during
the planning process prior to project development
and engineering. Several major corridor studies and
alternative analyses have recently been completed
or are currently underway throughout the Wasatch
Front Region and the recommendations made at this
stage of the planning process will aid in furthering
project development and refinement. Other steps and
considerations in project development are described
within this chapter.

Transportation Improvement
Program
WFRC’s Transportation Improvement Program (TIP)
is a six-year program of funded roadway, transit, and
active transportation projects for the Salt Lake CityWest Valley City and the Ogden-Layton Urbanized
Areas. Along with numerous other projects, included
in the TIP are Phase 1 projects found in the RTP for
which funding has been identified. A MetropolitanPlanning-Organization (MPO)-approved TIP is
required by federal legislation for a region to receive
federal highway, transit, and active transportation
funding. The TIP reflects the Region’s priorities,
represents a consensus among state and regional
officials, shows a direct relationship to the RTP, is
fiscally constrained, and conforms with federal air
quality regulations as they relate to transportation.
The TIP receives public review during development.
WFRC develops the TIP in cooperation with the
UDOT, the UTA, and other agencies.
WFRC, UDOT, and UTA have developed methods and
procedures for selecting, evaluating, and prioritizing
projects to be included in the TIP. WFRC has also
developed policies to guide the approval of the TIP
and the project selection process required by the
Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act.
WFRC TIP is a six-year process, which includes four
funded years plus two years of projects in concept
development. The adoption of the TIP each year
allows WFRC to monitor the implementation of
recommended RTP projects and evaluate the needs of
the Region’s two Urbanized Areas.

WFRC-Administered Funds
Municipalities and counties in the Wasatch Front
Region, UDOT, and UTA are primarily responsible for
implementing the projects in the 2023-2050 RTP.
WFRC works with these agencies to encourage them
to pursue the facility capital improvements identified
in the RTP. WFRC is responsible for administering six
programs that provide funding from federal funds and
a resource program for local governments which, in
turn, help to fund and build roadway, transit, and active
transportation projects found in the 2023-2050 RTP.
These programs are briefly described in this section.

Surface Transportation Program
The Surface Transportation Program (STP) provides
federal funding that may be used for projects
on federal-aid highways and bridges, transit
capital improvements and projects, and active
transportation projects.

Congestion Mitigation Air Quality
The Congestion Mitigation Air Quality (CMAQ)
provides federal funding for transportation projects
that improve air quality.

Transportation Alternatives Program
The Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP)
provides federal funding for the construction and
planning of bicycle and pedestrian facilities.

Carbon Reduction Program
The Carbon Reduction Program (CRP) is federal
funding that may be used on a wide range of projects
that support the reduction of on-road carbon dioxide
(CO2) emissions.

Transportation and Land Use
Connection Program
The Transportation and Land Use Connection (TLC)
program supports local governments with technical
assistance to integrate land use planning and regional
transportation, implementing the Wasatch Choice
Vision. The TLC program is made available through a
partnership with Salt Lake County, UDOT, and UTA.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 145 | 11: Implement the 2023-2050 RTP

Community Development Block Grant
The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)
Small Cities Program provides federal funding to
local governments and public service providers
for a variety of housing, infrastructure, public
service, and community development projects that
principally benefit low to moderate-income persons
in Morgan, Tooele, and Weber Counties, excluding the
entitlement city of Ogden.

Wasatch Front Economic
Development District
The Wasatch Front Economic Development District
(WFEDD) is a federally recognized Economic
Development District created to foster regional
economic developments and assist eligible entities
in developing competitive grant applications from
the U.S. Department of Commerce Economic
Development Administration.

Utilize and Promote 2023-2050
RTP Policies
The 2023-2050 RTP contains various transportationrelated policies to optimize our transportation
system in addition to enhancements to regional
transportation infrastructure. The 2023-2050
RTP policies guide the way WFRC addresses
various issues, like mitigating growth in travel
demand, addressing new considerations like
emerging transportation technologies, or exploring
implementing actions with other entities. WFRC
will work with transportation partners and local
governments to further the utilization of shared 20232050 RTP policies.

Wasatch Choice Great Streets
The Wasatch Choice Vision seeks to coordinate
transportation and land use to maintain overall quality
of life. The RTP carries this broad goal to the design
and function of regional transportation projects,
encouraging these projects to work with envisioned
land use, especially the designated Wasatch Choice
Vision Centers. As the RTP is implemented, the
Wasatch Choice Great Streets initiative will put
forward initial guidance for local governments and
UDOT to jointly consider as RTP projects are designed

and constructed within Wasatch Choice Vision
Centers. Wasatch Choice Vision Centers are focal
points for economic development and welcome a
variety of transportation choices. As such the design
and function of regional transportation facilities
should support those two objectives (economic
development and transportation choices).
More details will be added to this section in the Fall of
2023 to inform implementation of the RTP.

Future RTP Updates
As previously mentioned, transportation planning is a
continuous process. Changing development patterns
resulting from continued growth in the Region, a
gradual shift toward higher density urban centers,
fluctuating economic conditions, and shifting energy
and environmental concerns all impact transportation
needs along the Wasatch Front. The types of
transportation responses needed to successfully
address these changes are constantly reviewed
and evaluated. In order to keep the 2023-2050 RTP
current, WFRC reviews the current 2023-2050 RTP
itself, along with the process to develop the next RTP
at least every four years providing necessary changes.
The next revision to the Region’s RTP is scheduled to
begin in May 2023, with anticipated adoption of the
2027-2050 RTP taking place in May 2027.
During the next four years, WFRC will build upon
the regional transportation planning work that has
been completed. As part of the planning process,
each RTP builds upon its predecessor. The future
RTP planning process will include continued
emphasis on understanding and linking land use with
transportation and using information to refine the
Region’s Vision. WFRC will monitor changing land
use patterns and major new developments, including
job, industrial, and special district centers. Future
financial projections will depend on the United States
Congress, the Utah State Legislature, local officials,
and voters. As always, WFRC continues to update its
planning capabilities through improvements to the
Region’s travel models. Incorporating the National
Environmental Protection Act (NEPA) provision into
the planning process will be another area that WFRC
will continue to emphasize. Finally, WFRC will remain
open to new ideas and the “best practices” available
to address the future transportation issues in the
most effective manner possible.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 146 | 11: Implement the 2023-2050 RTP

Funding Sources
WFRC will continue to monitor funding levels for
transportation improvements. Over the past several
years, the Utah Legislature has significantly increased
state funding for roadway improvements. Recently
adopted legislation also allows greater flexibility in
allocating state funding for transit. In addition, the
Legislature has authorized new local option sales
taxes and vehicle registration fees for roadway, transit,
active transportation, and airport improvements.
These funds can be used for congestion mitigation,
new capacity, and corridor preservation. Future
planning efforts and updates to the RTP will need to
track the change in funding sources in order to take
advantage of all available revenue.

Travel Demand Modeling
WFRC uses travel forecasting models to project future
roadway traffic and transit ridership based on existing
and proposed transportation networks and forecasted
land uses. These travel forecasts are used to identify
needed highway and transit improvements. WFRC
continues to enhance and update its travel modeling
capabilities in order to better:
»
»
»

»
»
»

»

»

Account for how residents value time spent
traveling in their trip decision making;
Account for the effects of varying levels of
auto ownership across the Region’s diverse
household’ size and demographics;
Align traffic analysis zones boundaries
to recent transportation infrastructure
improvements, land use development activity,
and civic boundaries;
Reflect post-pandemic telecommuting and
work-from-home patterns and to allow for
assertion of future assumptions;
Reflect updated transportation agency
assumptions about future managed motorway
projects on limited access highways;
Reflect trips to and from college campuses
based updated information regarding college
student on and off-campus housing locations
and updated enrollment projections;
Allow flexibility in assumptions used
within the model for internet shopping and
connected and autonomous vehicles (CAV)
adoption rates;
Forecast transit ridership, factoring in new
information about recent ridership, transit
rider decision-making including sensitivity to

»

»

»

service frequency;
Represent the most current transit service
vehicle speeds between route stops for rail,
updated bus vehicle speed assumptions when
operating in mixed traffic conditions, and first
mile/last mile travel options for travelers using
transit services;
Represent freight traffic in the travel
demand modeling process and to allow for
more comprehensive planning for freight
demand; and
Estimate number and location of trips
entering and exiting the region and model
area in coordination with UDOT and the Utah
Statewide Travel Demand Model (TDM).

It is anticipated that improvement in freight
modeling will be able to test the effect of different
policies on freight movement throughout the
Region. Additionally, WFRC has partnered with the
Mountainland Association of Governments (MAG)
to create and calibrate a bicycle-specific TDM. It is
expected that the bicycle TDM will be used to test
future projects. A planned update to the modeshare component of the primary regional TDM is
expected for the next 2027-2050 RTP. In addition to
incorporating new mode considerations, the modeshare update includes plans for incorporating bicycle
trip patterns supported by inputs from the bike
model. Other planned improvements to the TDMs
include incorporating market segmentation into trip
distribution and further enhancements to the traffic
assignment process.

NEPA and Planning
The utilization of the NEPA in its planning process
helps to ensure that specific federal guidelines
and requirements are met. WFRC will continue to
identify and evaluate multi-modal alternatives in
major corridors, address environmental factors in the
evaluation process, and prepare a draft purpose and
need statement to be used in preparing necessary
environmental studies.

Systems and Performance
Monitoring
WFRC annually publishes population, households,
and employment information for the Region including
population projections for each community. The
State of Utah provides both population and economic

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 147 | 11: Implement the 2023-2050 RTP

forecasts and WFRC then divides and allocates
these projections for both Regional cities and the
Urbanized Areas. UDOT highway traffic surveillance
data, published every two years, along with periodic
UTA ridership updates, also contribute information
needed to update the 2023-2050 RTP. In addition, as
part of the continuing planning process, WFRC and
the Salt Lake City-West Valley City and Ogden-Layton
Technical Advisory Committees (TACs) continue to
identify and respond to transportation issues which
impact their respective Urbanized Areas.
The Wasatch Choice Vision and the 2023-2050 RTP
are rooted in performance-based planning. The main
outcome of these efforts is the implementation
of transportation projects and land use centers to
improve the quality of life in our communities. To
ensure that the Region is making progress towards
the goals of the Wasatch Choice Vision, WFRC, along
with partner agencies and stakeholders, monitor the
progress of the Wasatch Choice Vision and associated
centers. Progress monitoring is updated at regular
intervals and available online.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN: 2023-2050 | 148 | 11: Implement the 2023-2050 RTP

APPENDICES
A.

Public Comment

B.

External Forces and Policies Exploration: Peer Group Discussion

C.

External Forces and Policies: Scenario Framework Assumptions

D.

External Forces: Scenario Performance Measures

E.

Preferred Scenario Project Selection Criteria

F.

Revenue and Cost Assumptions

G.

Potential Federal, State, and Local Revenue Sources

H.

2023-2050 RTP Phased Project Lists by Mode

I.

Needs-Based Phasing Criteria

J.

System Performance Report

K.

Congestion Management Process

L.

2023-2025 Coordinated Human Services Transportation Plans

M.

System Resiliency

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN 2023-2050 | 149 | Appendix

GLOSSARY
OF TERMS
ACRONYM

DEFINITION

AOG

Association of Governments

APA

American Planning Association

APTA

American Public Transportation Association

ATC

Active Transportation Committee

ATIF

Active Transportation Investment Fund

ATO

Access to Opportunities

BRT

Bus Rapid Transit

Cache MPO

Cache Metropolitan Planning Organization

CanaMex

Canadian - Mexican

CAV

Connected and Autonomous Vehicles

CCTIF

Cottonwood Canyons Transportation Investment Fund

CDBG

Community Development Block Grant

CEDS

Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy

CRF

Code of Federal Regulations

CMAQ

Congestion Mitigation Air Quality

CMAQPP

Congestion Mitigation Air Quality Performance Plan

CMP

Congestion Mitigation Process

CO2

Carbon Dioxide

COG

Councils of Government

CPI

Consumer Price Index

CRP

Carbon Reduction Program

DBM

Daily Boardings per Mile

DEQ

Department of Environmental Quality

Dixie MPO

Dixie Metropolitan Planning Organization

DMV

Department of Motor Vehicles

DOD

Department of Defense

DOE

Department of Energy

DOT

Department of Transportation

DWS

Department of Workforce Services

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN 2023-2050 | 150 | Glossary

ACRONYM

DEFINITION

ACRONYM

DEFINITION

EFA

Equity Focus Area

RGC

Regional Growth Committee

EPA

Environmental Protection Agency

RGC TAC

FAST Act

Fixing America’s Surface Transportation
Act

Regional Growth Committee Technical
Advisory Committee

ROW

Right-of-Way

FHWA

Federal Highway Administration

RTP

Regional Transportation Plan

FLMA

Federal Land Management Agency

RUC

Road Usage Charge

FRI

Farmland Reserve Inc

SAP

Station Area Planning

FTA

Federal Transit Administration

SFP

State Freight Plan

GHG

Greenhouse Gas

SGR

State of Good Repair

GPI

Gardner Policy Institute

SHSP

Strategic Highway Safety Plan

HOT

High-Occupancy Toll

SLCIA

Salt Lake City International Airport

HOV

High-Occupancy Vehicle

SLCIT

Salt Lake City Intermodal Terminal

HSIP

Highway Safety Improvement Program

SLR

Suburban Land Reserve

HTRZ

Housing and Transportation
Reinvestment Zone

SOP

Standard Operating Procedure

SOV

Single Occupancy Vehicle

IIJA

Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act

SRTS

Safe Routes to School

ITE

Institute of Transportation Engineers

STIP

ITS

Intelligent Transportation Systems

Statewide Transportation
Improvement Program

LRTP

Long-Range Transit Plan

STP

Surface Transportation Program

MAG

Mountainland Association of
Governments

STRAHNET

Strategic Highway Network

TAC

Technical Advisory Committee

MAP-21

Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st
Century Act

TAMP

Transit Asset Management Plan

MATT

Mobile Active Transportation Tour

TAP

Transportation Alternatives Program

MPH

Miles per Hour

TAZ

Traffic Analysis Zones

MPO

Metropolitan Planning Organization

TDM

Transportation Demand Management

NEPA

National Environmental Protection Act

TDM

Travel Demand Model

NEVI

National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure
Formula Program

TIF

Transportation Investment Fund

TIF - AT

Transportation Investment FundActive Transportation

TIGER

Transportation Investment Generating
Economic Recovery

NHS

National Highway System

NSF

National Science Foundation

O3

Ozone

TIP

Transportation Improvement Program

PEA

Planning Emphasis Area

TLC

PEL

Planning and Environmental Linkage

Transportation and Land Use
Connection

PM2.5

Particulate Matter, less than 2.5
micrometers in diameter

TNC

Transportation Network Companies

TOC

PM10

Particulate Matter, less than 10
micrometers in diameter

Traffic Operations Center

TOD

Transit-Oriented Development

PRI

Property Reserve Inc

TransCom

PTASP

Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan

Transportation Coordination
Committee

RAISE

Rebuilding American Infrastructure with
Sustainability and Equity

TRZ

Transportation Reinvestment Zone

TSM

Transportation System Management

REMM

Real Estate Market Model

TSP

Transit Signal Priority

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN 2023-2050 | 151 | Glossary

ACRONYM

DEFINITION

TTAMP

Transit Transportation Asset Management
Plan

TTIF

Transit Transportation Investment Program

TTIF - F/LM

Transit Transportation Investment Program First-/Last-Mile

UAC

Utah Association of Counties

UBET

Utahns for Better Transportation

UDOT

Utah Department of Transportation

UHP

Utah Highway Patrol

ULCT

Utah League of Cities and Towns

ULI

Urban Land Institute

Unified Plan Utah’s Unified Transportation Plan
USDOT

United States Department of
Transportation

usRAP

United States Road Assessment Program

UTA

Utah Transit Authority

Utah LTAP

Utah Local Technical Assistance Program

VHT

Vehicle Hours of Travel

VMT

Vehicle Miles Traveled

WFEDD

Wasatch Front Economic Development
District

WFRC

Wasatch Front Regional Council

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN 2023-2050 | 152 | Glossary

ENDNOTES
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute. “The State of the State’s Housing
Market.” October 2021. https://gardner.utah.edu/wp-content/
uploads/StateOfState-Oct2021.pdf?x71849
Utah Department of Environmental Quality. “Utah’s Air Quality:
2022 Annual Report.” https://documents.deq.utah.gov/airquality/planning/DAQ-2023-000445.pdf
Utah Department of Environmental Quality, PM2.5 Maintenance
Plan, Salt Lake Area, December 2019, p.39
UDOT’s Statewide Managed Lanes Study finding is available to
access on the project website https://utah-managed-lanes-studyuplan.hub.arcgis.com/
National Integrated Drought Information System. https://www.
drought.gov/states/utah
Utah Office of Tourism. “Utah Tourism 2021 Overview.” https://
travel.utah.gov/research-planning/utah-tourism-industry-metrics
Utah Office of Tourism. ”2021 Utah Visitor Profile & Insights
Report.” https://travel.utah.gov/wp-content/uploads/UtahVisitors-Report-CY2021-FINAL.pdf

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN 2023-2050 | 153 | Endnotes

Wasatch Front

REGIONAL
TRANSPORTATION
PLAN
2023-2050

41 N. Rio Grand St.
Suite 103
Salt Lake City, UT 84104
801.363.4250
wfrc.org

