ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

CREATING COMMUNITIES
A GUIDE TO WALKABLE CENTERS

A RESOURCE FOR CREATING LIVE, WORK, PLAY, AND LEARN COMMUNITIES IN UTAH

1

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

CONTENTS

TEMPLE SQUARE, SALT LAKE CITY

1

7

17

27

35

45

Chapter One

Chapter Two

Chapter Three

Chapter Four

Chapter Five

Chapter Six

Intro to Centers

What’s in a
Center?

Moving to and
through Centers

Regional Benefits

Planning a Center

Scales and
Examples
2

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

ABOUT ENVISION UTAH
Envision Utah is a nonprofit, public-private partnership that was founded in 1997 by community, business, and government
leaders. Envision Utah serves as a nonpartisan facilitator that connects community members, stakeholders, and decision
makers to ensure all Utahns have a voice in the decisions that impact their future. To learn more, visit envisionutah.org.

HOW TO USE THIS DOCUMENT
This guide is an informative tool for city staff, officials, planners, and the general public to learn more about creating centers as
a strategy to accommodate Utah’s growing population while maintaining our high quality of life. This document discusses the
major components and benefits of centers and provides some tips on how to bring them to life in your community. Throughout
this document, you’ll find great examples of vibrant and thriving communities that exemplify principles of centers.

FUNDERS
Thank you to our many funders that contributed to this effort. We’d like to extend a special thanks to the George S. and
Dolores Doré Eccles Foundation.
Architectural Nexus

GSBS Architects

Perry Homes

The Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints

Horrocks Engineers

Rocky Mountain Power

Daybreak Communities

Ivory Homes

Utah Transit Authority

Marriner S. Eccles Foundation

Wasatch Front Regional Council

Morgan Stanley

Woodbury Corporation

FFKR Architects
Fidelity Investments

Office of Property Rights Ombudsman

3

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

CHAPTER ONE: INTRO TO CENTERS

HOW WE GROW MATTERS
Utah’s population is rapidly growing in a geographically constrained space where increasing traffic, poor air quality, and
limited water are continuous challenges. The region’s housing stock has not kept pace with population growth, threatening the
housing affordability that once set the area apart from other metropolitan regions in the U.S. Our major freeways and highways
are reaching the limits of their ability to accommodate traffic. As our urbanized valleys fill up their last open spaces with new
homes and businesses, better solutions are needed to preserve the existing quality of life while accommodating growth.
In addition, many existing trends—such as increased teleworking, greater reliance on e-commerce, and more time spent
outdoors—have only intensified since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. Creating the kind of future Utahns want
amid this change will require careful planning. Utah communities can meet these challenges in our existing environment by
establishing a network of places throughout the region where Utahns can easily access the spaces where they live, work,
play, and learn. These places are called centers.

Utah Population Estimates

6,000,000
5,000,000
4,000,000
3,000,000
2,000,000
1,000,000
0

1900

1910

1920

1930

1940

1950

1960

1970

1980

1990

2000

2010

2020

2030

2040

2050

2060

The Census Bureau ranked Utah first in the nation in total population growth since 2010, with 15.5% growth. 1,2,3

1

ENVISION
CHAPTER ONE
UTAH

CREATING
INTRO
COMMUNITIES
TO CENTERS

WHAT IS A CENTER?
A center is a walkable, mixed-use location in a
region, city, or neighborhood that provides a variety
of amenities and services.
Centers draw people from surrounding
neighborhoods and serve as lively, central locations
for people to gather while also highlighting the
unique features and history of an area.
All centers share three fundamental components:
1. A mix of residential, commercial, office,
recreation, and/or civic spaces, in a higher
concentration than surrounding neighborhoods.

CENTER STREET, LOGAN

2. Access to regional transportation via car, public
transportation, bike, and/or foot.
3. A walkable design that encourages visitors to
explore and interact.
These are baseline qualities of a center, and this guide
touches on many strategies that work to achieve
these characteristics. Additional consideration for the
community and its future can ensure a center is a great
place that benefits an area. The more an area is built
or evolves to implement the strategies in this guide,
the better that place can serve as a center that meets
the needs of Utah families and businesses.

2

UNIVERSITY BOULEVARD, PROVO

2

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

CENTERS COME IN A RANGE OF SCALES
Centers take many different shapes and forms, ranging from a place with high-rise buildings like downtown Salt Lake City
to a school, park, or church at the center of a neighborhood. Along the Wasatch Front, centers are typically classified by
size, with larger centers designed to serve bigger regions. The Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) defines four scales of
centers: neighborhood, city, urban, and metropolitan.
Neighborhood centers are in residential communities and serve roughly a two-mile radius. They include
local shopping, restaurants, churches, elementary schools, libraries, and pharmacies. They are located
at the intersection of collector roads and may be served by bus. Buildings in neighborhood centers are
generally taller and more prominent than surrounding neighborhood buildings.
NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER

City centers are located on arterial intersections or along public transportation routes and serve
people within a three- to five-mile radius. These centers generally include retail, healthcare,
education, residential, office, and other civic buildings.
CITY CENTER

Urban centers are generally built near freeway exits and permanent transit infrastructure like rail
or bus rapid transit. These centers serve neighborhoods within a five-mile radius and include retail,
healthcare, education, residential, office, and other civic spaces. Urban centers are generally
anchored by significant employment and shopping and by multistory housing.
URBAN CENTER

Metropolitan centers are generally built near rail and freeways and serve half a million or more
people. These centers include around 1,000,000 square feet of retail, healthcare, education, civic,
and office spaces on 100 or more acres. They include unique regional entertainment.
METROPOLITAN CENTER
3

ENVISION
CHAPTER ONE
UTAH

CREATING
INTRO
COMMUNITIES
TO CENTERS

LOCATION IS IMPORTANT
Centers directly benefit the people in nearby communities by
bringing amenities closer to home and creating opportunities
to walk and bike. They further provide opportunities for cities’
economic development. Centers provide the most function and
benefit, however, when connected as part of a network.
Centers of different scales should be spaced throughout the
region and connected by robust transportation corridors to
provide accessible amenities while remaining economically
viable. Small centers may be served by arterial roads or bus
stops, and larger centers should be developed along freeways
and regional public transit like the FrontRunner or TRAX. Strong
coordination of land use and transportation allows a network
of centers to provide significant benefits to the region such as
improved air quality, more efficient use of infrastructure, and a
reduced development footprint.

BENEFITS OF CENTERS
More options for clean, efficient,
and convenient travel.

Increased availability of housing
options close to jobs, recreation,
amenities, and transportation.

Enhanced public health and
improved air quality.

Better fiscal sustainability within
cities.

Revitalization of neighborhoods
and cultivation of local identity.

Well-planned neighborhoods and
conservation of agriculture and
open space.
STATION PARK, FARMINGTON

4

4

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

CENTERS ARE A UTAH TRADITION
Walkable main streets have been a Utah tradition since the Latter-day Saint pioneers settled here. Utah’s urban valleys began
as a network of “downtowns” that served as central spaces for the settlers to buy needed goods and access services. They
also served as cultural centers, with churches, city halls, schools, and parks. Joseph Smith’s iconic “Plat of Zion” ensured
these areas were well connected and set the stage for the gridded street network in many of Utah’s historic towns today.
After World War II, development began to separate housing from jobs and amenities. Main streets and town centers
disappeared as services moved to strip malls and shopping centers with large parking lots. Centers provide a way to reestablish these historic main streets and downtowns to create lively places and increase access to opportunities for all people
in our communities.

MAIN STREET AND 200 SOUTH | SALT LAKE CITY, 1909

MAIN STREET | PARK CITY (DATE UNKNOWN)

WASHINGTON BOULEVARD | OGDEN, 1937

MAIN STREET | CEDAR CITY, 1938
The above photos are used with permission from the Utah State Historical Society.
5

ENVISION
CHAPTER ONE
UTAH

CREATING
INTRO
COMMUNITIES
TO CENTERS

CENTERS IN STATE AND REGIONAL VISIONS
YOUR UTAH, YOUR FUTURE
Your Utah, Your Future (YUYF), which engaged over 50,000
Utahns, is a statewide vision for 2050 that establishes a
clear context, framework, and direction for policy decisions
and actions to achieve Utahns’ desired future. A network of
centers was identified as a crosscutting solution for many
of the YUYF topics, including transportation, water, air
quality, disaster resilience, economy, and housing.
Learn more about the Your Utah, Your Future here.

Utahns’ Transportation and Communities Preferences
Communities designed for walking,
transit, short drives, and housing variety
Communities not designed for walking,
transit, short drives, and housing variety

6%
8%

Mostly single-family homes and long
driving distances

6%

82%

High-rises in downtowns; single-family
homes and long commutes in suburbs

WASATCH CHOICE
Wasatch Choice is a shared community vision that considers
the Wasatch Front’s rapid population growth and serves as
a blueprint for transportation investments, development
patterns, and economic opportunities. Wasatch Choice
identifies many centers throughout the Wasatch Front as
key components of the growth strategy through 2050. The
vision was built through collaboration with local governments
and facilitated by Wasatch Front Regional Council and
Mountainland Association of Governments.
Learn more about Wasatch Choice here.

6

6

ENVISION UTAH

CHAPTER TWO: WHAT’S IN A CENTER?

CREATING COMMUNITIES

Great centers incorporate several key land-use components.
MIXED USE
Successful centers are vibrant, attractive places
that provide a variety of destinations close to one
another and close to housing.
Good centers include more than one of the following
uses:
•

Housing, like apartments, townhomes, and condos

•

Retail, like clothing stores and restaurants

•

Office space

•

Public spaces, like parks, open spaces, and plazas

•

Civic places, like schools, churches, and libraries

CENTERS VS. STRIP MALLS
Many communities have areas with multiple businesses or
uses, but these areas were often built to prioritize cars,
with large parking lots and few walking paths. These spaces
typically do not include housing.
These areas may serve their communities well, but as Utah
grows, revitalizing these areas and creating new centers will
help accommodate that growth in a way that ensures a high
quality of life.

The same building could host more than one use—
e.g., with housing upstairs and retail downstairs—or
different uses could simply be in the same proximate
area, with buildings close together.
People must be able to travel a short distance from
one use to another without having to use a large
arterial roadway. Concentrated destinations are a
key benefit that makes centers attractive places for
tourists and the local community.

RICHFIELD | 2014

HOLLADAY | 2002

HOLLADAY VILLAG

2002 vs.72019

ENVISION
CHAPTER TWO
UTAH

CREATING
WHAT’SCOMMUNITIES
IN A CENTER?

HOUSING
Housing is one of the most important uses to integrate in a center. People living within a center have convenient access
to desirable destinations and experience reduced transportation costs. Incorporating housing ensures that people can
easily travel from home to various destinations and that businesses within the center have regular visitors. Further, Utah
is experiencing a housing shortage, and affordability constraints are increasing the demand for options like townhomes,
condos, and apartments. Centers provide a place to expand housing options without disrupting existing neighborhoods.
As our shopping patterns change, it will become more critical to include nonretail destinations in centers such as schools,
libraries, or office buildings. Creating a center can be as simple as incorporating housing, experiential retail, and food
services near these key community anchors.

100 W 300 N, PROVO

THE GATEWAY, SALT LAKE CITY

Including housing near downtown hubs like Provo and Salt Lake City provides residents with easy access to urban amenities such as dining, shopping, and
transit. It also helps meet the growing demand for housing supply.
8

8

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

If a community cannot confidently predict the market, local regulations should
be flexible in the land uses permitted, allowing property owners to respond to
economic opportunities. Zoning a space for multiple uses allows it to easily
respond if market demand shifts. For example, strictly zoning a space for retail
only may force commercial streets and districts to decline. Similarly, a rigid
requirement of retail on the ground floor of a building may ensure that the
ground floor remains vacant.

Photo Credit: Point of the Mountain State Land Authority

USING FORM-BASED CODE
Form-based code (FBC) is one
tool communities can use to
regulate land use in a way that
not only is flexible but also
creates a desired look and feel
for a space.
A form-based code is a landdevelopment regulation that
deals with the design of the
buildings and streets rather than
the use of the spaces. This tool
shifts communities away from
standard zoning, which focuses
on planning by use, placing
more emphasis on building
facades, sidewalk width,
building height, etc.
Using an FBC can encourage
developers to consider the
relationship between new
development and the existing
built environment. An FBC
ensures that development
matches the desired urban form
and contributes to the sense of
place. Click here to access the
Wasatch Choice FBC template.

This conceptual area map for the Draper prison site highlights a mixed-use core supported by
surrounding residential, office, and institutional uses. This map was used as part of a scenarios
exercise for the Point of the Mountain. Learn more at thepointutah.org.
9

ENVISION
CHAPTER TWO
UTAH

CREATING
WHAT’SCOMMUNITIES
IN A CENTER?

USABLE PUBLIC SPACE
Most of Utah’s residents live within urbanized areas, so part of their quality of life depends on the prevalence of public space
and the design of their local urban environment.
A center can create a desirable environment by providing welcoming, safe, and well-managed public spaces where the built
environment is interwoven with community gathering areas and open space. Centers allow cities to take advantage of existing
open space and designate additional public spaces. Public space complements and balances other development in a center
and is a valuable amenity for those living nearby.

PROXIMITY TO DOWNTOWN CORE

LOCAL HISTORY HIGHLIGHTS
NATURAL GREENERY AND GARDEN FEEL
STROLLING AND LOUNGING AREAS

TEMPLE SQUARE, SALT LAKE CITY

10

10

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

Photo Credit: University Place

NEARBY SHOPPING
ENTERTAINMENT SPACE
WATER FEATURE

SHADED SEATING

LIGHTED WALKING PATH
UNIVERSITY PLACE, OREM

Proximity and accessibility to open space are important factors to consider when planning and designing a center. Public spaces
should help center the neighborhood and should not be more than a few minutes’ walk from other destinations. Restaurants,
housing, shopping, and offices that provide pedestrian traffic are good for lining public spaces. Enjoyable gathering space also
increases the likelihood that visitors will linger, improving vitality and business patronage. Where feasible, public spaces should
be in a central location in front of buildings.
In order to be truly usable, gathering spaces should accommodate neighborhood needs and include features such as benches,
walking paths, plaques, picnic tables, or shade covers. Public open space should be well lit and appropriately maintained and
could include parks, plazas, playgrounds, sporting fields, stream corridors, trails, community gardens, or nature preserves.

11

ENVISION
CHAPTER TWO
UTAH

CREATING
WHAT’SCOMMUNITIES
IN A CENTER?

EXPERIENCES AND CREATIVE RETAIL
Online shopping has transformed how, where, and when we shop. Consumers increasingly prefer online shopping to brickand-mortar stores. As a result, traditional malls, big-box stores, and strip development—the pervasive commercial centers
of postwar America—are declining.
These shifts present an opportunity for Utah’s cities and towns to rethink their commercial areas and shift toward more
centered development that focuses on placemaking and vibrancy.
Today’s shoppers are spending less on goods and more on services and experiences such as dining out, concerts, and
festivals. As a result, we need to prioritize activities and event spaces within our retail areas. Retail companies are investing
more in creating experiences such as interactive merchandise or photo opportunities to bring people to their stores. Centers
can be flexible and adapt to changing consumer patterns and also provide attractive and unique spaces where experienceminded consumers can feel a sense of excitement and discovery.

Photo Credit: City of Holladay

HOLLADAY VILLAGE, HOLLADAY
Event space can be incorporated into centers to host events such as
movie nights and concerts. This is a key amenity that provides more
opportunities to engage a broader audience than shopping alone can.

12

PIONEER PARK, SALT LAKE CITY
The annual Downtown Farmers Market attracts dozens of local vendors and
hundreds of visitors every weekend during the summer. This helps support
businesses directly adjacent to the park and throughout downtown.

12

ENVISION UTAH

CHANGING RETAIL NEEDS AT
THE GATEWAY

CREATING COMMUNITIES

Photo Credit: Vestar

Olympic Legacy Plaza in the
Gateway Mall in downtown
Salt Lake City is an excellent
example of a place that is
embracing experience-based
retail by creating an attractive
gathering space.
The Gateway includes a mix of
retail, services, office space,
and apartments. The Olympic
Plaza, located on the north
end of the mall, hosts a water
fountain for kids and plenty of
space for gathering.
The plaza hosts events
throughout the year that are
open to the public, such as
movie nights, dance classes,
art markets, food festivals,
and even goat yoga.
The Gateway is a dynamic
place that attracts families and
young adults through engaging
events, leading to more
success for the companies that
lease in the mall.

13

ENVISION
CHAPTER TWO
UTAH

CREATING
WHAT’SCOMMUNITIES
IN A CENTER?

LOCAL HIGHLIGHTS
The best centers blend into the fabric of the surrounding community. Neighborhood centers, for example, should strive to
recreate the village or small-town main street. They should be places where the community can gather and where it feels safe
to walk to local shops and businesses. Most importantly, a center should feel unique to that specific community.
Park City is a national hub for skiers, many of whom travel annually to Utah for the world-class ski resorts. Thus, the
downtown area is designed around the ski resorts with restaurants accessible directly off the slopes, as highlighted in the
photos below. Monuments of the 2002 Winter Olympics honor the unique history and character of the area.
Creating centers based on the local community can also mean planning for kids’ play areas, dog parks, active recreation, or a
community garden. In rural areas, it may make sense to invest in infrastructure that supports equestrian activities.

This Park City bridge was designed to help pedestrians and bikers safely cross over a busy street. In the winter, the bridge provides direct access to a
chairlift (highlighted in the bottom right corner of the second photo).
14

14

4

ch.

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

IMPLEMENTATION

ER 4

promote a unique identity for
individual
villages.
Photo Credit:
Sandy City
.2 DESIGN
Figure 423 shows an example
of how The Cairns brand could
be implemented into a custom
crosswalk design, while still
using standard crosswalks
on other streets. Figures
424 - 426 show examples of
how other cities have created
unique crosswalk designs.

4.3.3 SIDEWALK
MEDALLIONS/SIDEWALK
SEALS/MANHOLE COVERS

promote a unique identity for
individual villages. Photo Credit: Sandy City
.2 DESIGN
Figure 423 shows an example
of how The Cairns brand could
be implemented into a custom
crosswalk design, while still
using standard crosswalks
on other streets. Figures
424 - 426 show examples of
how other cities have created
unique crosswalk designs.

4.3.3 SIDEWALK
MEDALLIONS/SIDEWALK
SEALS/MANHOLE COVERS

A way to promote the Cairns
brand and add interesting details
and visual complexity into the
A way to promote the Cairns
streetscape is to integrate The
brand and add interesting details
Cairns logo into the infrastructure
Figure 428 - Sketch of how
and visual complexity into the
of the streetscape through
streetscape
is to
integrate
The
23 - Example of Mix of Standard Crosswalks and Creative Designs used to emphasize
one crossing
over
another
sidewalk seals, sidewalk
Cairns
logosupport
into thecohesive
infrastructure
Design standards in Sandy City’s center, The
Cairns,
development
and
branding
as
properties
evolve
over
time.
and/or
manhole
Figure 428 - Sketch of how Medallionsmedallions,
can
be Used
to
Promote
Brand and enhance Streetscape
of
the
streetscape
through
covers.
CROSSWALKS

r

sidewalk seals, sidewalk

.1 APPLICATION
om crosswalk design is
medallions,
and/or manhole
Centers
can be valuable in maintaining
a community’s
culture and feel because they can draw on and amplify the character
eresting way
to promote
This centers
could be done
creating
of inthe
area.and
Design standards are a covers.
useful tool that can encourage developers to construct quality
thatbythe
community
airns brand
an artful
custom manhole covers (or
finds
attractive.
Features like roof treatments,
reliefs, and façade varieties that are designed atother
the utility
pedestrian
scale and
g way. These
can
integrate
.1 APPLICATION
box covers) that
e infrastructure
of
the
Area.
connect to the street front can help develop a center that celebrates local heritage and expresses
unique
community
feature
The Cairns
logo, or character.
This could
be
done by community
creating
Design
standards
should
be
carefully
planned
to
balance
appeal
with
additional
development
costs.
bronze inserts that could
PPLICATION
custom manhole covers (or
be set into the sidewalk at
here are many ways that a
utility box covers)their
that needs and perceptions on what makes
intersections.
Alternatively, thespecial.
Engaging local residents is very useful other
for understanding
the community
nique crosswalk design can
feature
The
Cairns
logo,
or
logo could also be stamped or
See more
about engagement
tools
and- Unique
working
Figure 424 (Left) Figure
425 (Right)
Crosswalkwith
Designsthe public in chapter 5.
e implemented.
The unique
Figure 429 - Area Logo Pa
painted onto the sidewalk.
bronze inserts that could
esign could be used at all
be set into the sidewalk at
.2 DESIGN
osswalks throughout the
intersections. Alternatively, the
strict, or simply be used
Figure 428 shows an
15
logo could also be stamped or
key and/or highly visible
example Figure
of how
The
Cairns
Figure
429
Area
Logo
Painted
into
Crosswalk
431
Bronze
Seal
inserted
in
Sidewalk
painted onto the sidewalk.
ersections. They could
logo could be implemented

ENVISION
CHAPTER TWO
UTAH

CREATING
WHAT’SCOMMUNITIES
IN A CENTER?

EXAMPLES OF COMMUNITY CULTURE

Photo Credit: Daniel Knight, Gardner Village

Gardner Village fosters an attractive, antique atmosphere where
people can connect with the pioneer history of the West Jordan flour
mill and silo.

Photo Credit: jovannig - stock.adobe.com

The Delicate Arch is a defining feature of the red rock country around
Moab, Utah. Many stylistic renderings of the geologic feature can be found
throughout the city.

Photo Credit: MelissaMN - stock.adobe.com

Public art in St. George depicts major destinations in and around the
city that define the area.
16

Vernal and other communities in northeastern Utah are well known for their
proximity to Dinosaur National Monument. These artistic depictions help
cultivate a regional identity.
16

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

CHAPTER THREE: MOVING TO AND THROUGH CENTERS
Successful centers incorporate various transportation strategies.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION
CONNECTIONS
A complete center will meet many people’s daily
needs, so transportation connections are critical
components to ensure access to centers is convenient.
Centers thrive when they are built near high-capacity
transportation infrastructure like major roads, freeways,
or public transportation stops.
Proximity to large-capacity transportation
infrastructure ensures convenient travel for residents
and visitors. It further makes the center accessible to a
much broader region through different modes.
Freeways, highways, and FrontRunner lines can be
difficult for pedestrians to cross, so centers should be
planned to take advantage of access to the facility while
making sure the center is still walkable by, for example,
developing the center to one side of these facilities.
Areas with high pedestrian traffic may need to be
buffered from major transportation arteries. Buffering
can be done by placing commercial spaces or other
uses that benefit from high auto access closer to
transportation infrastructure.

The TRAX station at Daybreak provides easy access to housing, shopping,
dining, and other amenities without deterring from walkability.

17

ENVISION
CHAPTER THREE
UTAH

MOVING TOCREATING
AND THROUGH
COMMUNITIES
CENTERS

TRAFFIC-CALMING STRATEGIES
Traffic-calming strategies such as fewer or narrower lanes, larger medians, traffic circles, one-way couplets, and extended
curbs can improve walkability and signal to drivers that they are transitioning from a highway or arterial to a center.

Photo Credit: Kristina Blokhin - stock.adobe.com

Downtown Salt Lake City (left) utilizes wide medians, crosswalks, extended curbs, and street art to slow traffic and prioritize the pedestrian experience.
On-street parking in Park City’s Main Street (top right) helps meet parking needs while narrowing the road. The large roundabout at 9th and 9th in Salt
Lake City (bottom right) replaced a dangerous five-way intersection and allows for safer, more regulated traffic flow.
18

18

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

STREET CONNECTIVITY
A well-connected network of streets within and around a center ensures convenient access for a variety of travel options.
Interconnected streets provide safer and more direct walking and biking routes and disperse traffic, as opposed to winding
dead-end streets or cul-de-sacs that force traffic onto high-speed arterials. Good street connectivity makes traffic more
efficient and improves safety.
Many of Utah’s pioneer towns were founded with a grid network, which maximizes connectivity. A grid network provides
several paths to reach any destination, which makes a large area accessible within many different travel times. It also
allows people to travel direct routes on smaller local streets, increasing the safety and convenience of walking and biking.

The street grid—as seen in many Utah cities—achieves the best
connectivity. A grid provides many route options to a destination,
which improves accessibility for multiple transportation methods.

Cul-de-sacs and dead-end roads—often found in suburbs—present
barriers to pedestrians and cyclists. They also lead to increased traffic
and travel time.

19

ENVISION
CHAPTER THREE
UTAH

MOVING TOCREATING
AND THROUGH
COMMUNITIES
CENTERS

Where it’s not possible to connect
streets, it may be feasible to add
pedestrian or bike connections.
For example, Salt Lake
City’s ten-acre blocks hinder
walkability. Breaking up these
distances with midblock pathways
decreases walk time and creates
opportunities for an improved
pedestrian experience.
Pedestrian and bike pathways
are also a way to connect culde-sacs without the expense and
disruption of extending the street.
Regent Street in downtown Salt Lake City provides a midblock pedestrian connection that includes
restaurants and shopping opportunities.

THE UTAH STREET CONNECTIVITY GUIDE
The Utah Street Connectivity Guide is a valuable resource for creating or improving a center. This tool was jointly
created by the Mountainland Association of Governments, Wasatch Front Regional Council, Utah Transit Authority,
and Utah Department of Transportation to provide information on defining street connectivity and measuring
connectivity in your area.
The guide highlights the direct and indirect benefits that connectivity brings to a community and covers strategies and
best practices for how to increase connectivity. Case studies on issues and considerations at different scales make
this resource useful in a variety of contexts. Click here to see the guide.

20

20

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

WALKABLE DESIGN
Within the center, the pedestrian experience is critical. Visitors are more likely to interact with businesses and utilize open
space when places are engaging and friendly to pedestrians. The space must be interesting for someone who is walking rather
than for someone in a car on a highway. This means centers should have smaller signs placed at eye level, buildings close to
the street, doors that open to sidewalks, clearly marked and well-maintained pathways, and places to stop and sit.
Great centers often have narrower streets and closer buildings to improve walkability and safety. Interactive space design—
such as outdoor patios at restaurants and glass windows at boutiques—supports street activity.

Street furniture in downtown Logan scales a space for pedestrians and
makes it feel safe. Outdoor seating for businesses invites engagement
from passersby and creates vitality.

An enclosed pedestrian bridge connects City Creek Center across Main
Street to provide a beautiful experience of downtown Salt Lake City
all year-round. Engaging and safe walking experiences increase the
desirability of active transportation modes like walking and biking.

21

ENVISION
CHAPTER THREE
UTAH

MOVING TOCREATING
AND THROUGH
COMMUNITIES
CENTERS

COMPLETE STREETS
Streets that serve the needs of cars, bicyclists, and pedestrians are known as complete streets. Complete streets may
feature wide sidewalks and bike lanes as well as special lanes for public transportation. These features allow for balanced
access to several convenient and safe travel options.
Other design elements that improve the safety and convenience of walking or cycling include well-marked crosswalks,
narrower driving lanes, slower posted speeds, and center medians. On-street parking, park strips, plantings, artwork, or
furniture also help to buffer pedestrians from traffic.

DESIGNING COMPLETE STREETS
The StreetPlan tool at streetplan.net is
an excellent resource for designing and
visualizing complete streets.
This free online tool allows you to construct
and modify different elements of a road
including lanes, sidewalks, medians,
setbacks, street furniture, and land uses.

900 S 300 W, SALT LAKE CITY

22

The tool incorporates guidance on
best practices and allows users to
easily experiment with various ways of
transforming standard thoroughfares into
complete streets. The interface makes
instant adjustments and generates quick
renderings, which makes it ideal for both
internal work and public engagement.

22

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

THOUGHTFUL PARKING
Parking may be the greatest challenge to welldesigned centers. Parking is important for
convenient auto access, yet it is nearly impossible
to have a walkable center while also providing large
parking lots in front of each building.
These lots increase walking distances, detract
from the pedestrian experience, and disrupt
street connectivity. Moreover, unused parking
lots create dead zones that dampen the vitality of
communities and decrease the attractiveness of the
area. Excess parking can even impede affordable
housing by artificially driving up the cost of vacant
land and reducing the amount of municipal tax
revenue per acre.

THE STATE OF PARKING
At ten sites studied in Orem, observed parking
supply exceeded observed demand at every site.
Seven of the sites had observed parking occupancy
rates at less than 75 percent. 4
Five case studies of transit-oriented developments
showed that walking, bus, and rail were key
transportation options. Observed automobile road
share was just 23 percent at one site.5
Vehicle trips in transit-oriented developments
were observed at less than half of the rates
predicted by the Institute of Transportation
Engineers (ITE).5

The average American car is driven only 5 percent
of the time and is parked for the rest.6

Around 50 percent of the cars parked in free
spaces stay longer than the posted time limit.6

23

ENVISION
CHAPTER THREE
UTAH

MOVING TOCREATING
AND THROUGH
COMMUNITIES
CENTERS

2200 S 700 E, SALT LAKE CITY
Public transportation, such as TRAX and bus rapid transit, that services shopping, dining, and housing dramatically reduces parking demand. Alternative
transportation like bike shares, electric scooters, and ride-hailing services further reduce the need for large-surface parking lots.

Parking needs in well-designed centers will be much lower than what the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE)
recommends, and cities that are planning centers should reduce parking requirements or even consider eliminating them
altogether. ITE recommendations are based on peak demand in a suburban, auto-oriented environment with little to no
transit service or pedestrian amenities.
These recommendations are becoming increasingly inflated due to transportation trends that are reducing parking demand,
including ride-hailing services like Uber and Lyft, bike shares, and electric scooters. Online shopping is also turning many
shopping and dining excursions into quick pick-up trips, further reducing parking demand.
Negative impacts can be mitigated by conducting research to ensure the supply of parking matches demand and by being
thoughtful in how lots and parking structures are designed. Once parking has been “right sized” for your center, consider how
the parking impacts the function and flow of the area. Parking should work to heighten overall connectivity, convenience, and
walkability. Additionally, the area can be future-proofed by arranging parking lots strategically to allow for different uses as
the center grows.
24

24

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

STRATEGIES FOR IMPROVED PARKING DESIGN
In addition to ensuring parking spots do not exceed the need, those designing centers should consider the following strategies:

THE GATEWAY, SALT LAKE CITY

Centralize parking by placing spaces in a structure,
underground, or in the center of a block or by locating
parking away from primary pedestrian streets. Alternatively,
parking can be buffered with vegetation or built to include
commercial uses in the bottom level of the structure.

CITY HALL, PARK CITY

Utilize shared parking reservoirs in mixed-use centers to
reuse parking spaces throughout the day. Residences,
offices, restaurants, retail, churches, and gyms usually
experience peak parking demands at different times of the
day. When the same spaces serve several needs throughout
the day, overall parking need is significantly lower.

25

ENVISION
CHAPTER THREE
UTAH

MOVING TOCREATING
AND THROUGH
COMMUNITIES
CENTERS

Include pedestrian navigation in surface parking lots and
structures. This includes paths that connect the parking spaces
to the destination in a safe and pleasant manner. Features
like signage, wayfinding, lighting, and walkways enhance the
parking experience and help pedestrians with navigation.

TROLLEY SQUARE, SALT LAKE CITY

Provide on-street parking to create a buffer between pedestrians
and cyclists and the main road. This strategy also helps calm
traffic by narrowing the road.

9TH AND 9TH, SALT LAKE CITY

Locate surface parking lots behind buildings so entrances are on
the street. This eliminates the need for pedestrians to navigate
a parking lot to access the business and helps create active
centers where people can easily see into and interact with shops
from the sidewalk.

HOLLADAY VILLAGE, HOLLADAY

26

26

ENVISION UTAH

CHAPTER FOUR:
2 0 5 0REGIONAL
V I S I O N BENEFITS
MAP

CREATING COMMUNITIES

VA L L E Y V I S I O N I N G

A network of centers amplifies the benefits of a single center.
WHAT ARE CENTERS?
Centers are hotspots of activity in a
BUILDING
A NETWORK
community. They keep businesses,
homes, restaurants, and more close

A single
center
number
together
so it’sprovides
easier forapeople
to get to
of jobs,
benefits
directly
to the
local
services,
school,
entertainment,
and
community.
a well-connected
friends andAnd
family.
network of centers throughout the
Centers
and transportation
infrastructure
region
amplifies
these benefits
should
be
planned
jointly
so
while also addressing many centers
of the are
highly accessible and so we make efficient
challenges our cities and towns are
use of our infrastructure investments.
currently facing.
Centers are found in a range of different
A network
can be achieved
scales. Metropolitan
centers,by
the
developing
centers
of
different
largest, are regionally significant, scales
while
in neighborhood
strategic locations
centers,throughout
the smallest, serve
people
nearby.
themainly
region.
It’s living
important
to ensure

they are connected by robust car,
bike, and public transportation
CENTERS LEGEND
infrastructure.

Establishing a range of centers
throughout Utah’s population cores
will make it easier for all Utahns to
access beautiful and desirable places
CENTER
thatMETROPOLITAN
meet their needs for
housing,
employment, recreation, education,
healthcare, and more.

URBAN CENTER

Saratoga
Springs

Highland
Lehi
American
Fork
Pleasant
Grove

Eagle
Mountain

Orem

Vineyard

Provo

The Utah County 2050 Vision imagines a network of centers to provide infrastructure and amenities for
the rapidly growing population to live, work, learn, and recreate. Various colors reflect centers of different
scales, and roads show the connectivity between centers. To learn more about the visionary centers map for
Springville
Utah County, visit utahvalleyvisioning.org.
27

Mapleton

ENVISION
CHAPTER FOUR
UTAH

CREATING
REGIONAL
COMMUNITIES
BENEFITS

REDUCING THE URBAN FOOTPRINT
Centers offer communities attractive, convenient spaces for new housing and other buildings in concentrated areas. This
provides a number of benefits. When new growth can be accommodated in centers, communities don’t have to develop as
much open space or agricultural land.
Additionally, denser development in centers reduces infrastructure costs by saving miles of roads, pipes, power lines, and
other utilities that would be required in more spread-out developments. It also ensures that new growth is supported by
existing and planned transportation investments. Finally, a smaller development footprint requires less water for outdoor
landscaping and improves air quality by reducing travel distances for many residents.

Modeling for the Utah Valley Visioning project found that Utah County would save nearly 40,000 acres of land by adopting a centered development
approach from 2020 to 2050.7

28

28

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

MEETING HOUSING NEEDS
Utah’s strong economy, high quality of life, and large families
have fueled rapid population growth. Unfortunately, housing
construction has not kept up, meaning housing availability is
limited in the state’s most populated valleys. This has caused
housing costs to skyrocket. To make matters worse, these
same valleys contain the bulk of Utah’s jobs. This means it
is increasingly difficult for residents to find affordable, highquality housing close to work.
As Utah’s population continues to grow, cities and
developers have an opportunity to decide how best to
accommodate new housing and services. Centers are a
powerful growth strategy to both increase housing supply
and generate a more diverse housing mix.

PREFERENCES AND NEEDS VS. AVAILABILITY
Market demand in the Wasatch Front has shifted away
from large-lot single-family homes to more affordable and
more compact products. Currently, there is not enough
of this type of development in our valleys to meet the
demand, which further drives up housing costs in more
walkable neighborhoods. Centers present an opportunity
to create well-connected communities that relieve the
housing shortage and give buyers more housing options in
our most urban valleys.

Wasatch Front Permitted Units
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014
% UNITS SINGLE FAMILY

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

% UNITS MULTIFAMILY

In the last decade, the Wasatch Front has shifted to building more multifamily than single-family units. This shift has been caused in part by
affordability challenges and by changing preferences.8
29

ENVISION
CHAPTER FOUR
UTAH

CREATING
REGIONAL
COMMUNITIES
BENEFITS

Many residents are looking for options other than standard urban apartments or suburban single-family homes. Communities
can meet this demand by providing a full mix of housing types including townhomes, twin homes, condominiums, apartments,
mother-in-law apartments, accessory dwelling units (ADUs), and single-family homes with a variety of yard sizes.
This kind of market-based variety gives people flexibility and freedom to choose where they live in different circumstances or
stages of life. It also fosters greater economic diversity and allows for people such as teachers and firefighters to live within the
communities they serve.
Compact-housing options also help residents save money on housing, transportation, utilities, taxes, and fees. Centers create
opportunities for a more diverse mix of housing in spaces that are attractive for the entire community and well supported by
transportation infrastructure.
On a broader scale, creating or restoring a pattern of centers with a variety of housing throughout the valley will ensure all
Utahns can have the opportunity to live in beautiful neighborhoods in the kinds of homes they want and can afford, with the
things they need nearby.

LESS
DENSE

MORE
DENSE
APARTMENT/
CONDO

30

TOWNHOME

TWIN HOME

ACCESSORY
DWELLING
UNIT

SINGLEFAMILY HOME

30

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

FOSTERING A SENSE OF PLACE AND LOCAL IDENTITY
Centers can create enjoyable, welcoming, and memorable gathering spots that foster a strong sense of local identity. This
helps distinguish a neighborhood or city from nearby communities. A neighborhood or town center in a small town or rural
setting, for example, can provide notable places for visitors while also creating a sense of pride for its residents.
Further, centers increase opportunities for social interaction, which helps cultivate a sense of safety and community. Centers
can make locals feel at home and help visitors feel they are somewhere special. One aim of restoring centers is to revive a
sense of character and to celebrate the small-town community feel and identity of cities in Utah’s growing regions.
See chapter 2 for more details and examples on how to accomplish this.

Photo Credit: Karl Hugh

Utah’s Tony award–winning Shakespeare Festival attracts over 130,000 people to Cedar City annually. This memorable five-month event provides
entertainment for visitors of the nearby national parks while also positioning Cedar City as a hub for theater and art education.

31

ENVISION
CHAPTER FOUR
UTAH

CREATING
REGIONAL
COMMUNITIES
BENEFITS

MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY

INCREASING TRANSPORTATION ACCESS
Communities that are designed for walking, public transportation, biking, and short drives improve the convenience of travel,
expand travel options, and reduce the cost of living. For example, Envision Utah projected that centered growth in Utah
County could lead to an average annual savings of over $2,000 per household in 2050.
Having a network of centers throughout a metropolitan area also reduces the overall amount of driving by bringing places
closer to people. Reducing driving has tremendous benefits for traffic, air quality, and infrastructure costs.

IMPROVING ACCESS TO OPPORTUNITY
Community resources and housing options in every city—connected through a distributed network of centers and an efficient
system of public transportation—help reduce or eliminate physical barriers to jobs and services. Placing employers and
education facilities in centers at transportation nodes increases the accessibility of these economic opportunities.

32

32

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

PROMOTING HEALTHIER LIVING AND IMPROVED AIR QUALITY
Utahns love spending time outdoors—especially with family or friends. However, navigating many Utah communities as
a pedestrian or a cyclist, particularly with children, can be challenging due to unsafe conditions like high vehicle speeds
and a lack of dedicated infrastructure. Local centers give more people the opportunity to get out of their cars and enjoy
walking or biking.
Additionally, vehicles account for around 40 percent of our state’s air pollution. Centers reduce the need for traveling long
distances and can eliminate a vehicle trip altogether by increasing the convenience, accessibility, and safety of other forms
of transportation. This reduces emissions and improves air quality.

SALT LAKE COUNTY
Centered development can reduce or shorten vehicle trips, which can positively impact our regional air quality. Learn more about Utah’s air quality at
yourairyourutah.org.

33

ENVISION
CHAPTER FOUR
UTAH

CREATING
REGIONAL
COMMUNITIES
BENEFITS

DAYBREAK, SOUTH JORDAN
New development defines communities for years to come, but the long-term financial impact is sometimes overlooked in the approval process. Detailed
analysis shows that the Daybreak development provides significantly more net tax revenue than nearby single-family neighborhoods.

ENSURING FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Towns, cities, and counties regularly make decisions about how to grow and what kind of development to allow. These
decisions shape entire neighborhoods and form the foundation of communities as we know them. They also have enormous
implications for a municipality’s finances. Research has shown that higher-density developments that are well connected to
existing transportation infrastructure are less costly to the public sector. Every municipality considering new development
should understand the financial implications of these options.
The Wasatch Choice Regional Vision forecasts that increasing the centered growth in the region to the level outlined
in the vision would save local governments approximately $2.3 billion simply because cities would need to provide
less infrastructure like roads and utilities to serve new development. Cost savings multiply over time since roads and
infrastructure must be periodically maintained and replaced.

34

34

ENVISION UTAH

CHAPTER FIVE: PL ANNING A CENTER

CREATING COMMUNITIES

A successful center will take into account several principles.
EMBRACE THE PROCESS
There is no such thing as the perfect center. Centers
should be unique to and achieve the goals of the
local community. A center built for the lifestyle of
downtown Salt Lake City, for example, may not be a
good fit in Vernal.
The planning process will vary by center and
may include different stakeholders, development
timelines, funding sources, etc. Cities, planners,
and developers should look to other sites in similar
communities to learn from them, but ultimately the
process and resulting center must be their own.
The goal is not to duplicate any of the existing
centers in Utah but to harness the needs and
strengths of your community to make a great place.
Metrics should be developed for evaluating the
success of your center in achieving its desired
community functions.
To learn more about how centers are assessed,
click here for the 2019 report of the Wasatch Front
Regional Council’s State of the Centers.

EXAMPLES OF CENTER METRICS
• Mode Share
• Walking
Opportunities

Transportation

• Miles of New Bike
Lanes

• New Housing Units
• Residents per Acre

Housing

• Percent of Units
Occupied

• Tax Revenue
• Employment per
Acre

Economics

• Infrastructure
Maintenance Costs

• Land-Use Mix
• Number of Daily
Visitors

Sense of Place

• Event-Space
Reservations

• Transit-Stop
Density and
Ridership

• Average Percent of
Income Spent on
Transportation

• Intersections per
Square Mile

• Job-Housing
Balance
• Average Percent of
Income Spent on
Housing

• Commercial
Occupancy and
Rents
• Number of
Residents in
Catchment Area

• Recognition
of Community
Branding

• Percent of Housing
That Is Affordable
(< 30%, 50%,
80% Area Median
Income)

• Commercial
Market Value
(Dollars per Square
Foot)

• Households Near
Open Space or
Other Key Features

• Total Acres within
the Center

35

ENVISION
CHAPTER FIVE
UTAH

CREATING
PLANNING
COMMUNITIES
A CENTER

MEETING MARKET DEMAND THROUGH RETROFITS
While planning commissions and city councils have significant control over what kind of development is allowed where,
ultimately only buildings and land uses that can financially sustain themselves will endure. The market (i.e., supply and
demand) should be studied when considering what to build in a community and where. Per capita demand for retail space and
associated parking has been declining steadily for many years. This shift was accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic, when
in-person shopping trips fell sharply while online retail thrived. Retail-dominated spaces are becoming less economically viable,
and large portions of many store parking lots are unused year-round.
Cities and developers should view existing retail-only spaces as opportunities to meet other community needs, especially
housing. Adding office and residential uses nearby can help support remaining retail businesses by increasing the daytime
and night-time customer populations. In place of defunct retail or unused parking, municipalities can integrate one or many
anchors of different uses that enrich the community, like museums, libraries, parks, event spaces, community centers, or
splash pads. Upgrading internal circulation, external connections, and walkability can improve access, flow, and usability.
Wasatch Front Retail, Mercantile, and Restaurants

Wasatch Front Industrial, Warehouse, and Manufacturing
200

200

619
577

150

150

454
388

100

100

304

221

50
75

90

116

2012

2013

247

210
170

161

122

337

121

132

120

138

0

50

197
135

94

0
2010

2011

2014

PERMITS

2015

2016

2017

VALUE (IN MILLIONS)

2018

2019

2020

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

PERMITS

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

VALUE (IN MILLIONS)

In the Wasatch Front, the value of retail, mercantile, and restaurant development has declined since 2016. The value of this sector has remained
significantly lower than other development types—such as industrial, warehouse, and manufacturing—during this same period.8
36

36

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

Many commercial areas in Utah that developed after
World War II lack the mix of uses, walkable design,
and connectivity to function as true centers. These
areas include strip malls, office parks, and big-box
stores. Community needs are evolving, and there is an
opportunity to reimagine these underutilized spaces as
vibrant community centers.
Transitioning these spaces into true centers may face
significant challenges, including fragmented ownership
and leases, poor access and circulation, dispersed
parking areas, and parcel configurations that are not
conducive to other uses.
The public sector can play key roles in retrofitting
commercial areas by
•

Acquiring and aggregating property.

•

Reducing parking requirements.

•

Changing streetscapes to improve walkability (widen
sidewalks, introduce traffic-calming measures or
crosswalks, add on-street parking, etc.).

•

Adopting zoning that allows flexibility in uses.

•

Adding civic uses (libraries, city halls, senior centers,
etc.), open spaces (plazas, squares, etc.), or points
of interest (fountains, outdoor art, seating areas,
etc.).

•

Using tax-increments or other financing mechanisms
to fund infrastructure and affordable-housing costs.

Fairbourne Station in 2006.

Fairbourne Station in 2020. Underutilized parking and parcels have
transformed into an attractive center with numerous amenities.

37

ENVISION
CHAPTER FIVE
UTAH

CREATING
PLANNING
COMMUNITIES
A CENTER

REIMAGINING DOWNTOWN HOLLADAY
Holladay, landlocked and nearly built-out, faced the challenge of increasing its commercial tax base while preserving its
sense of small-town community. To achieve this, Holladay redeveloped its historic but aging downtown area and replaced
a strip mall with Holladay Village Square, a 42,000-square-foot mixed commercial center that fronts onto the city-owned
Village Plaza.
The Holladay Village features pedestrian-oriented, ground-floor retail and restaurants and offices on the upper levels.
It also includes key community amenities such as a grocery store, a plaza, and a food truck court. Parking is offered on the
street and in an underground structure behind the buildings. Holladay Village illustrates the positive impacts that can occur
from carefully planning redevelopment of underutilized urban space.

Prior to redevelopment, Holladay Boulevard primarily served as a thoroughfare for traffic and was lined by aging and inefficient strip commercial uses.
Holladay City rerouted and shifted a road to front the new plaza, widened sidewalks, buried power lines, and installed bike lanes. Strong architectural
design standards were developed to bring a sense of character to the area.

38

38

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

PLANNING FOR EVOLUTION IN NEW DEVELOPMENT
Planning for evolution over time is critical for two reasons. First, building a quality center can take many years. Constructing a
large project all at once is costly and may not be in-line with market demand. Instead, it may be necessary to develop portions
of the master plan over a long period. Achieving a vision can require future additions or repurposing space over time.
Second, the future is impossible to predict. Changes like online shopping, ride-share services, electric bikes and scooters, and
telecommuting were not even considerations in land-use and transportation planning a couple of decades ago. Communities
should establish and maintain a clear vision for the future but allow for flexibility to adapt to changing circumstances.

Photo Credit: Utah Geological Survey, UGS Aerial Imagery Collection

Utah State Capitol in 1936 (left) and today (right). The open space surrounding the capitol building has served several purposes over the last century.
This land allowed for significant development of the complex as the state grew.

39

ENVISION
CHAPTER FIVE
UTAH

CREATING
PLANNING
COMMUNITIES
A CENTER

Here are some example strategies to increase flexibility:

40

FORM-BASED CODE

STREET GRID

INTEGRATED DESIGN

Use principle-based ordinance
wording and form-based
code rather than use-based
regulations.

Build a connected street grid to
support a variety of development
types and intensities over time.

Design standards can help a
center look and feel integrated
into the community, regardless
of use.

FLEXIBLE FIRST FLOORS

TRANSITION ZONES

MULTIUSE PARCELS

Ground floors that can be
repurposed from housing to
commercial space can adapt to
changing economic realities.

Create a transition zone between
the center and residential areas
that could be integrated into the
center in the future.

Ensure the shape and size of
each subdivided parcel will
allow the space to be used for
other purposes in the future.

40

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

AFFORDABILITY
2020 Essential Workers’ Average Annual Income

AFFORDABLE-HOUSING GUIDES
The Affordable Housing Strategies
guide by the Metropolitan Research
Center at the University of Utah
documents over two dozen
affordable-housing tools utilized
nationally and by ten Utah cities.
The Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute
has also released an analysis of
the five best practices for meeting
Utah’s housing-affordability needs.

$38,360

$30,930

$28,890

$35,630

$24,500

Fireﬁghters

Preschool
Teachers

Nursing
Assistants

EMTs &
Paramedics

Waiters &
Waitresses

Telling stories about the people who live in affordable housing can help dispel stigma. A variety
of housing options helps many essential workers live in the communities they serve.9

Residential- and commercial-space affordability is a challenge in many centers. While higher-density development has the
opportunity to save money by using less land and infrastructure, new construction is typically unaffordable for low-income
residents or small businesses. In addition, attractive centers are in high demand because they are in short supply and enjoy
strategic locations, both of which further drive up rent costs. While high property values in centers boost the tax base, a lack of
affordable units can prevent centers from being inclusive and welcoming places that benefit the entire community.
Centers present an opportunity to weave affordable, higher-density housing more naturally into key locations that add
amenities and other benefits to the neighborhood. To achieve this goal, affordable housing needs to be part of the conversation
from the very beginning; municipalities and all stakeholders must be committed to its implementation.
Further, the team must be clear on what demographics and incomes to provide for (fixed-income households, young families,
workforce housing, etc.) because different groups have different needs.

41

ENVISION
CHAPTER FIVE
UTAH

Funding options like tax credits, grants, tax-increment financing, and
low-interest loans can help bring these projects to life. Long-term
affordability is often a challenge when relying on grants or loans.
Support partners like the Utah Housing Corporation specialize in
guiding developers who are applying for funding. Others, like housing
authorities, can help manage administrative work.
Mixed-income housing strategies can help keep the project
economically viable, decrease community opposition, ensure that
units remain affordable long-term, and reduce the stigma associated
with affordable housing. In addition, showing positive examples of
well-designed multifamily buildings may help to alleviate concerns.
Good property management is very important for making sure those
in need can get into affordable units and that the property is well
taken care of.

CREATING
PLANNING
COMMUNITIES
A CENTER

STATE OF UTAH AFFORDABLE HOUSING REPORT
There are many organizations across Utah that
provide information on affordable housing.
For more data on the current state of affordable
housing, see the State of Utah Affordable
Housing Report from the Department of
Workforce Services Housing & Community
Development. This report, completed in 2019,
provides detailed data and analysis on the
current affordable-housing inventory and
demand throughout the state.

700 E 400 S, SALT LAKE CITY

42

42

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

MESSAGING
There are many misconceptions surrounding mixed-use and high-density development. These concerns mostly revolve
around the kind of place the center will become and how it will impact the lives of nearby residents. Some of the most
common myths are related to the following ideas:
NEIGHBORHOOD QUALITY
Residents often fear that higher-density development will lead to a decline in the quality of the
neighborhood and decrease property values. They fear the area will become an unattractive place to
live. In reality, centers often become high-value places. Many of the center case studies in chapter 6
highlight attractive areas where property values are increasing.
CRIME
Another common fear is that high-density development may increase crime—a fear that is often rooted in
stereotypes of the “type” of person that lives in multifamily housing. When controlled for other variables,
there is no clear link between housing density and crime rates. In fact, centers can deter crime by
increasing pedestrian activity throughout the day, which provides more visibility in public spaces.
TRAFFIC AND CROWDING
Adding residents and visitors to the neighborhood raises concerns about traffic and crowding. Centers
actually decrease regional traffic because people have safe, affordable, and convenient transportation
options other than driving. Further, adding amenities to the community reduces the pressure of the
growing population on existing services.
For more help understanding common myths about density and its true impact on communities, check out the Higher-Density
Development Myth and Fact document from the Urban Land Institute.

43

ENVISION
CHAPTER FIVE
UTAH

CREATING
PLANNING
COMMUNITIES
A CENTER

Below are some general messaging principles that have proven effective, but they should be tailored to a local community’s
circumstances and needs.
SPEAK TO AUDIENCE VALUES
Values studies are a useful tool for developing focused messaging.
New development can often lead to fear of change or the
unknown, so it’s critical to demonstrate that centers are the kind
of places Utahns want to live in—safe, neighborly, and beautiful.
Click here to see a collection of Envision Utah values studies.
PURSUE PLACEMAKING
Placemaking is an important part of crafting and communicating
your vision for the space. Sharing renderings and plans can help
begin dialogue with the public and other stakeholders.

ENGAGING THE PUBLIC
Public support and buy-in will most likely be
achieved when the public is fully engaged and
heard during the planning process. Engagement
strategies should be values- and evidence-based
and inclusive, and they should have support from
local leaders and trusted community members.
For more information, click here for the Wasatch
Choice Public Engagement Guidebook.

44

ADDRESS MYTHS
Many fears and a great deal of confusion often surround new
development in existing neighborhoods. It is important to
identify and dispel myths directly. Use data and local well-known
examples to reconcile facts and feelings.
EMPHASIZE GROWTH REALITIES
It is important to ensure residents are aware of Utah’s rapidly
growing population and the value of centers as a strategy to
maintain a high quality of life.
CONVEY FISCAL BENEFITS
Historically, tax revenue generated by single-family development
does not offset the long-term costs of the infrastructure to
support it. Centers can stimulate increased revenue in declining
malls and shopping centers.

44

ENVISION UTAH

CHAPTER SIX: SCALES AND EXAMPLES

CREATING COMMUNITIES

WHY A VARIETY OF CENTERS IS IMPORTANT
To be most effective, centers need to be close to where people live. If there are only large centers that are too far apart,
traveling becomes inconvenient and people must drive long distances to reach destinations. On the other hand, a pattern of
only small centers that are close to one another would preclude many businesses or services that need larger catchment areas.
The regional goal is to develop centers of various scales that are as close together as the market will permit but that are also
widely distributed throughout the region.

An appropriate pattern of centers ensures that each is scaled to the surrounding area. Although very different in scale, downtown Ogden and downtown
Moab are both successful centers that meet the needs of their local communities.

45

ENVISION
CHAPTER SIX
UTAH

CREATING
SCALES
COMMUNITIES
& EXAMPLES

WASATCH CHOICE CLASSIFICATION OF CENTERS
The Wasatch Front Regional Council utilizes the following quantitative descriptions to classify centers by size.
CATCHMENT

FLOOR AREA RATIO

HOUSING DENSITY

BUILDING HEIGHT

TYPICAL LAND USES

2,500

0.35 TO 1.0

6 TO 25

1 TO 3

RETAIL/CIVIC

25,000

0.5 TO 1.5

10 TO 50

2 TO 5

GROCERY/
RESTAURANT

100,000

0.75 TO 4.0

20 TO 100

4 TO 10

COMMERCE/
REGIONAL RETAIL

ENTIRE AREA

1.0+

40+

4 TO 25

UNIQUE
DESTINATIONS

(Population estimated
to regularly use services
and amenities)

(Comparison of building
floor area to lot size)

(Housing units per acre)

(In stories)

NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER

CITY CENTER

URBAN CENTER

METROPOLITAN CENTER
46

46

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

CENTER CASE STUDIES
The case studies presented in this chapter are examples of different scales of centers located within Utah. None of these case
studies embody every element outlined in this guide, and there is no such thing as a perfect center. Every center should be
imagined and designed at the local level with a specific community in mind. These examples are great references that can help a
local community model its own center and determine what it would take to make it happen.

NEIGHBORHOOD CENTERS
SoDa Row
SoDa Row was the first neighborhood center within the mixed-use
community Daybreak, located in South Jordan. SoDa Row is walkable,
with local amenities such as a salon and ice cream shop, green space,
office space, and an artificial lake. The center also includes public
seating and event space.
Streets are designed for walking and biking, as is the community-wide
trail network. Sidewalks are wide, and parking is located on the street
or behind the buildings. Daybreak Parkway, a major four-lane arterial,
splits into two one-way roads to improve the pedestrian atmosphere.
The surrounding areas offer a variety of housing types, each with its
own architectural styles.
SoDa Row is part of a larger master plan for the Daybreak community.
Each village has its own neighborhood center, which creates a network
of amenities throughout the development within walking distance of
most residences. A city center is under construction at the center of
the development, which will be served by TRAX and the Mountain
View Corridor freeway.

47

ENVISION SIX
CHAPTER
UTAH

CREATING
SCALES
COMMUNITIES
& EXAMPLES

15th and 15th
Since the 1940s, 15th and 15th has been
a local business hub for the surrounding
neighborhoods. The entire center is less
than one block—located between Emerson
Avenue and Kensington Avenue on 1500
East in Salt Lake City.
Today, this block contains various local
eateries, a bookstore, and an art gallery.
The shops on 15th and 15th are primarily
locally owned businesses, which adds to
the tight-knit feeling of community. The
center arose and morphed organically over
many years as the surrounding community
grew. Some shops are located in converted
houses, which helps the commercial
buildings blend into the fabric of the
surrounding brick-bungalow neighborhood.
Many visitors access the center by
walking or biking from their homes in
nearby neighborhoods. A bus line also
passes through 15th and 15th, providing
public transportation access. Parking
is primarily on the street or behind or
beside the buildings, which further
enhances the pedestrian experience.

48

48

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

Liberty Park
Liberty Park, located around 500 East and 900 South in Salt Lake City, serves as an organic neighborhood center. The park has
provided a green gathering space for Salt Lake residents since 1881 and has remained a key attraction to this day. Liberty Park
comprises 80 acres and includes opportunities for recreation such as running, biking, and swimming, as well as educational
destinations like the Tracy Aviary and Chase Home Museum. In the summer, the park hosts a weekly farmer’s market, cultural
festivals, and city events. The park is accessible via bus and has a station from the citywide bikeshare, GREENbike.
Development of the neighborhood center surrounding Liberty Park occurred naturally over time as community needs
changed. The Liberty Park neighborhood center offers a variety of housing options from historic single-family homes to
midrise apartments. Romney Plaza is directly adjacent to the park and provides affordable housing for seniors. Additionally,
there are many shops and restaurants all within a walkable distance of the park to support visitors and neighbors. The
Liberty Park center is a great reminder that recreation, civic, educational, healthcare, and even religious uses can, all
together, serve as an “anchor” for a center.

49

ENVISION SIX
CHAPTER
UTAH

CREATING
SCALES
COMMUNITIES
& EXAMPLES

CITY CENTERS
Logan Historic Downtown
Logan’s downtown, located around Center Street and
Highway 89 (Main Street), has served as a center since the
city’s establishment in 1859. In 2019, the city completed
a revitalization project on Center Street. Logan City
worked closely with the Historic Preservation Committee,
the Downtown Business Alliance, residents, and
neighboring property owners in the Center Street rebuild.
Main Street’s status as a high-traffic state highway was
a challenge for walkability, but Center Street utilizes
angled on-street parking and outdoor dining to create
a pedestrian-friendly atmosphere. In addition, shared
parking reservoirs are located behind buildings, which
front onto the sidewalk. The Cache Valley Transit District
(CVTD) bus lines service the downtown corridor and offer
free fares for all riders.
Improvements from the 2019 rebuild included widening
sidewalks, updating infrastructure, adding an archway,
increasing street furniture, and adding a midblock
pedestrian crossing. The buildings still reflect the historic
character of the area and provide dining and shopping,
along with access to the historic Logan Tabernacle.
The redevelopment helped create a new sense of place
and added walkability to downtown Logan with the hope
of sparking further reinvestment in the area that will bring
in new business and residences.

50

50

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

Downtown St. George
Downtown St. George—encompassing the
area around Main Street and St. George
Boulevard—is being revitalized. Like many
Utah cities, St. George hosts historic
buildings from the arrival of the Latter-day
Saint pioneers who settled the area but has
since incorporated modern amenities.
A unique feature of downtown St. George
is Ancestor Square, a marketplace that
includes shopping, dining, and art galleries.
The local farmers market is hosted here,
and gardens are woven throughout. The St.
George Historic Preservation Commission
has posted plaques at several of the historic
buildings in Ancestor Square to teach visitors
about local history. Nearby apartments
ensure that people can live close to these
amenities, and more apartments are being
planned and constructed.
Farther south, Town Square Park has
a splash pad and hosts public events,
including summer movies on the Square. The
park is also adjacent to a children’s museum
and the public library, making it a great
place for families. Main Street includes two
roundabouts and on-street parking, which
help slow traffic to improve the pedestrian
experience. The center is also served by
SunTran bus lines.

51

ENVISION SIX
CHAPTER
UTAH

CREATING
SCALES
COMMUNITIES
& EXAMPLES

URBAN CENTERS
Downtown Provo
Downtown Provo organically developed from a historic main street into an urban center. Located on Center Street and
stretching from roughly 500 West to 200 East, downtown Provo weaves together historic infrastructure and modern
amenities, including many buildings that have been present since the establishment of the city in 1852.
Downtown Provo is home to a variety of small, locally owned businesses and hosts many markets and festivals. Civic places,
such as government centers, green space, and the repurposed Provo City Center Temple, help provide key services to the
community. Provo has also seen modern developments in the downtown area, such as the Utah Valley Convention Center.
Today, Provo City utilizes a master plan for the downtown area to guide its preservation, economic growth, and mixed-use
development. The master plan has helped spark revitalization, in part by adding housing, and the downtown is now thriving
as it continues to grow. There are excellent connections to public transportation—particularly commuter rail and bus rapid
transit—and the center has a very pedestrian-oriented environment, with on-street parking, outdoor dining areas, slow
vehicle speeds, a connected street network, and building fronts that face the street. Downtown Provo highlights how historic
and modern influences can blend to create a thriving urban center.

52

52

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

Fairbourne Station and Valley Fair Mall
Fairbourne Station is a growing transit-oriented
urban center located in West Valley City between
3500 South and Lancer Way near 2700 West. The
creation of Fairbourne Station was a collaborative,
long-term process that began in 2004.
West Valley City, UTA, and several private entities
partnered on this multiphased development.
Construction began in 2011 with the Redevelopment
Agency of West Valley City as the master developer.
The urban center includes city essentials such as city
hall, a library, an upscale hotel, apartments, a public
plaza, and high-capacity transportation networks
including TRAX, bus rapid transit, and I-215.
Around the same time, Valley Fair Mall—which
is adjacent to Fairbourne Station—was being
reimagined. New owners and investments from West
Valley City’s redevelopment agency gave Valley Fair
Mall a new life.
At the mall, portions of the once-expansive parking
lot were filled in with retail and restaurant space.
A network of local streets connects these uses,
featuring on-street parking to improve walkability.
Outdoor portions of the mall were added, including
shops, restaurants, a splash pad, and open space.

53

ENVISION
CHAPTER SIX
UTAH

CREATING
SCALES
COMMUNITIES
& EXAMPLES

Photo Credit: University Place

Photo Credit: University Place

University Place
University Place is an urban center located at the
corner of State Street and University Parkway
in Orem. Built in the 1970s, the University
Mall was car dependent, with large parking
lots surrounding a traditional indoor mall. The
departure of a major tenant became a catalyst
for a “40-year rethink” of the property, which led
to a $500-million redevelopment beginning in the
mid-2010s.
The owner’s team worked closely with Orem City
to create a new zone that allowed the developer
more flexibility to develop the concept plan over
time. University Place is now a walkable, mixeduse center served by the Utah Valley Express
bus rapid transit (BRT) line. University Place
offers three unique residential communities,
outdoor green space, shopping, restaurants,
entertainment, and Class A office space.
The redevelopment plan utilizes parking
structures in strategic locations to replace
surface parking lots to more efficiently park
vehicles and free up land for more productive
uses. The green space at University Place,
known as “The Orchard,” offers hundreds of free
community events year-round.
University Place will continue to develop several
more phases over the years to further achieve a
vibrant gathering place for the entire community.

54

54

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

METROPOLITAN CENTERS
Downtown Salt Lake City
Downtown Salt Lake City is Utah’s only current
metropolitan center. In addition to being the state’s
largest employment center, downtown hosts many
urban amenities and services including City Creek
Center, the Salt Palace Convention Center, Vivint
Smart Home Arena, Gallivan Plaza, Temple Square,
the state capitol, multiple theaters, and the Salt Lake
Public Library. These regional amenities serve the
entire Wasatch Front and help to uniquely define Salt
Lake City on a national scale.
Downtown Salt Lake City has continued to revitalize
over time by adding thousands of housing units
and improving the bike, pedestrian, and public
transportation environment. This includes adding
turnout lanes, protected bike lanes, midblock
pedestrian crossings, and on-street parking. The
area has the best public transportation access in the
state with multiple TRAX and FrontRunner stations
and many bus lines. UTA offers the free-fare zone
in the heart of downtown, which incentivizes public
transportation and increases foot traffic. Further, an
excellent street grid has allowed the area to evolve
and densify while mitigating congestion.
The capital city draws many visitors, residents, and
businesses and serves as Utah’s economic hub. It is
the commerce, cultural, and entertainment center of
the state.

55

ENVISION
CHAPTER SIX
UTAH

CREATING
SCALES
COMMUNITIES
& EXAMPLES

EMERGING CENTERS
Many communities in Utah, including those that are already or nearly built-out, are working towards developing centers
that reflect the evolving needs of their residents. These communities recognize that as Utah continues to grow, establishing
economic and cultural centers throughout population cores is key to preserving a high quality of life. Many of these projects
are retrofits, demonstrating that the built environment can change to better serve residents’ needs. See the following
community plans for their upcoming centers:
•

Taylorsville Center Point

•

Downtown South Salt Lake

•

Millcreek City Center

•

Heber City Envision 2050

•

Murray City Center District

•

Layton Forward

•

Sandy The Cairns District

•

Vineyard Town Center

Photo Credit: Sandy City

THE CAIRNS, SANDY CITY

56

Photo Credit: MHTN Architects, Voda Landscape + Planning, Millcreek City

MILLCREEK CITY CENTER

56

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

THANK YOU!
Utah has been among the fastest-growing states—and sometimes the fastest growing—for decades. We grow because we
have a prosperous economy and a high quality of life. Most of our growth is our own children and grandchildren, but others
want to join us, many of whom already have family or other connections in Utah. As long as Utah is a great, prosperous
place, the question isn’t whether we’ll grow but how we’ll grow. As we’ve learned through numerous planning and visioning
processes over the last 24 years, centers are essential for maintaining a high quality of life, a reasonable cost of living, and
a robust economy.
Our work at Envision Utah has shown not only that centers are a robust strategy with many benefits, but also that there is
vast public support and a strong desire for centers. In our two largest visioning efforts, the Quality Growth Strategy in the
late 1990s and Your Utah, Your Future in 2015, the public overwhelmingly supported growth scenarios that provided more
center-styled development with nearby amenities, shopping, and transportation options. The Creating Communities Guide
is a resource for local governments, developers, and the public to build the shared future Utahns envision.
Thank you for reading! We hope you learned a bit more about the integral components of centers, how they can help
bring vibrancy to your community, and how to implement them. Finally, we want to say thank you to our many funders,
stakeholders, and working-group members who contributed their resources and expertise to this guide.
To learn more about the development of this document, contact us at info@envisionutah.org.

ARI BRUENING
ENVISION UTAH PRESIDENT AND CEO
57

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

SOURCES
1. Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute. (2017, July 1). Utah’s Long-term Demographic and Economic Projections. https://
gardner.utah.edu/wp-content/uploads/Kem-C.-Gardner-County-Detail-Document.pdf.
2. U.S. Census Bureau, & Utah History Encyclopedia. (n.d.). Population of Utah between 1850 and 2010 (Compared with
the United States). Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute; https://gardner.utah.edu/demographics/user-data/.
3. Harris, E. (2020, December). State and County Population Estimates for Utah: 2020. https://gardner.utah.edu/wpcontent/uploads/State-County-PopEst-Dec2020.pdf.
4. Snideman, J. K., Bench, J., & Clark, R. (2019, April). Orem City Parking Study. Orem City. https://legistarwebproduction.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/attachment/pdf/420894/Parking_Study_Final_Report.pdf.
5. Ewing, R., Tian, G., & Lyons, T. (2017). (rep.). Trip and Parking Generation at Transit-Oriented Developments (pp.
1–108). Portland, OR: National Institute for Transportation and Communities. http://mrc.cap.utah.edu/wp-content/
uploads/sites/8/2015/12/NITC_767_Trip_and_Parking_Generation_at_Transit-Oriented_Developments-1.pdf.
6. Kazis, N. (2010, February 24). Fun Facts About the Sad State of American Parking Policy. Streetsblog USA. https://usa.
streetsblog.org/2010/02/24/fun-facts-about-the-sad-state-of-american-parking-policy/.
7. Envision Utah. (n.d.). Utah Valley Vision for 2050. https://utahvalleyvisioning.org/s/VV-Report-Updated.pdf.
8. Ivory-Boyer Construction Report and Database. Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute. (n.d.). https://gardner.utah.edu/
economics/ivory-boyer-construction-database/.
9. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. (2021, March 31). Utah - May 2020 OEWS State Occupational Employment and Wage
Estimates. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. https://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes_ut.htm#00-0000.

58

58

ENVISION UTAH

CREATING COMMUNITIES

59

