Station Area Plan
Progress Update
(HB462)
Communities are making strides to plan and develop
areas around FrontRunner, TRAX, and bus rapid transit
(BRT) stations as we address today’s growth challenges
while preserving quality of life.
As a result of HB462 Housing Affordability Amendments,
which passed in the 2022 Legislative Session, cities with a
fixed-guideway public transit station (rail or BRT) are required
to develop a Station Area Plan (SAP) and update their general
plan and zoning to implement the SAP.
Station Area Plans support the goals of the Wasatch Choice Vision,
including increasing the availability and affordability of housing,
promoting sustainable environmental conditions, enhancing
access to opportunities, and increasing transportation choices and
connections. SAPs are intended to maximize development potential in
appropriate areas through a collaborative city-led planning approach,
allowing cities to determine how best to meet shared objectives
without mandating a specific approach or zoning.
The Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) and the Mountainland
Association of Governments (MAG) (the Metropolitan Planning
Organizations), in collaboration with Utah Transit Authority (UTA), and with
support from the Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity, are providing
technical assistance to cities to develop and implement their Station Area
Plans.

Scan or Click
to View SAP
Interactive
Map

Learn more at wfrc.org and mountainland.org.						v.20230831

Implementation and Progress
Review and Certification of Station Area Plans by MPOs

Data current as of August 2023

Metropolitan Planning Organizations like WFRC and MAG are responsible for certifying Station Area Plans. A form
to submit Station Area Plans and relevant resolutions for review and certification is now available.

Of the 126 station areas*

35

40

46

Stations where
station area
planning has
not yet been
initiated

Stations with plans
that pre-date HB462

Stations with
plan(s) being
prepared for
adoption

1

SAPs adopted
by municipality,
pending SAP
certification
submission

0

4

SAPs submitted for
certification review

SAPs certified by MPO

*There are 95 eligible stations along the Wasatch Front. The defined “station areas” for several stations extend into multiple
jurisdictions, which is why the total number of station areas exceeds the number of stations.

Technical Assistance

• Farmington
FrontRunner Station
• SLC Ballpark TRAX
Station
• Roy FrontRunner
Station
• 4800 W Old Bingham
Hwy TRAX Station
(South Jordan portion)

WFRC and MAG also provide technical assistance to help communities implement HB462, in partnership with UTA,
and with support from the Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity. Applications are being accepted on a rolling
basis, and reviewed by the program partners. WFRC, MAG, and UTA work with communities to move SAPs forward
quickly once they receive funding.

60/126

Station areas have received technical assistance* to fund planning activities around their
station areas.
*Funded through the existing WFRC Transportation and Land Use Connection (TLC) program or the new, GOEO-funded Station
Area Plan Technical Assistance program.

Thus far, with the $5 million provided by the Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity (GOEO) to fund
SAP technical assistance:
for SAP
technical assistance received
17 applications

approved
17 applications
and projects awarded

$2.267 million

$78,172

in project funding through
SAP technical assistance
awards

FrontRunner
8 stations received an
average of $77,222 in
technical assistance

average technical assistance
awarded per station

TRAX

7 stations received an
average of $111,429 in
technical assistance

BRT

13 stations received an
average of $60,923 in
technical assistance

Case Studies and Examples
Roy City, Weber County: Roy FrontRunner Station

After extensive public engagement, Roy City created the Focus Roy City vision for their community, which then led
to the adoption of a Form Based Zoning Code for their FrontRunner Station. Roy’s Form Based Zoning Code will help
transform the station area through zoning changes into a transit oriented development with a mix of uses, including
affordable housing options and office/commercial development, as well as connectivity for pedestrians and bikers
to best leverage the development’s proximity to public transportation. This plan is beginning to come to life as the
market responds with a proposal to construct nearly 300 townhome units within the station area.

Higher density around FrontRunner station		

Focus Roy City SAP		

Pedestrian friendly public ways

Midvale City, Salt Lake County: Bingham Junction, Midvale Fort Union, & Midvale Center TRAX Stations
Midvale has three TRAX Stations: (1) Bingham Junction, (2) Midvale Fort Union, and (3) Midvale Center. Bingham
Junction is on the Red Line while Midvale Fort Union and Midvale Center are on the Blue Line. Being located near the
center of the Salt Lake Valley, Midvale sits at a crossroads of transit and transportation; its three TRAX stations afford
prime opportunities for transit-oriented development, including housing, commercial, and other uses.

Midvale’s Bingham Junction station has largely developed in a linear, mixed-use fashion with office and residential
uses adjacent to one another. While located near the historic downtown, a rail spur and a long-time industrial use
separates the station from the downtown. Redevelopment opportunities could provide a connection to the historic
downtown, greatly increasing the likelihood of transit use while tying into and expanding the recently adopted formbased zoning code encompassing the downtown area. A station area plan has not yet been done for this area, and
Midvale looks forward to what can be done through the study and preparation of such Plan.
A few newer, higher-density mixed-use and residential developments, some affordable, have been built near the
Midvale Fort Union and Midvale Center stations. An existing Station Area Plan (2019) encompasses both of them.
This plan now will be updated to address the requirements of HB462. As with the Bingham Junction area, Midvale
looks forward to what the new station area plan proposes for these areas; specifically, how to improve and better
utilize existing zoning opportunities for transit-oriented growth.

Midvale Center Station			

Midvale Bingham Junction Station		

Historic Downtown Midvale

Case Studies and Examples Continued
Farmington City, Davis County: Farmington North FrontRunner Station

Farmington City adopted a Station Area Plan for the Farmington North FrontRunner Station. The SAP includes an
implementation timeline for the next 5 to 10 years which will activate the area to become a connected, mixed-use
development containing residential housing (market rate and affordable), office/commercial, and open space uses.
The plan seeks to expand housing choice and availability around the station, including approximately 4,500 new
residential units - enough to accommodate nearly 15,000 new Farmington residents. Under the SAP, Farmington will
explore innovative alternative transit options to connect people within the station area (which can be more than ½
mile) to the station and a mixed-use center, which the city has already initiated.

Farmington North Station Plan			

Mixed-uses at various scales

Pedestrian friendly public ways

Vineyard City, Utah County: Vineyard FrontRunner Station

In August of 2022, UTA opened the FrontRunner Station in
Vineyard. City leadership sees this station as one of the most
critical infrastructure projects in the city and region and has
established a land use plan for a new 350-acre downtown to
provide housing for all income levels, expanded transportation
choices, and economic development. The initial plans for the
station area were approved in 2016 and modified in 2020 to
further intensify land uses for commercial uses and housing.
The 2020 Downtown Station Area Plan estimates 6,000-8,000
new residential units. To date, 685 multifamily units have been
constructed within the station area along the Utah Lake shoreline.
In August 2022, MAG awarded technical assistance to Vineyard
City to further expand the station area plan boundaries from
350 acres on the west side of the FrontRunner railroad tracks, to
include approximately 430 acres east of the railroad (known as
East Geneva). Together, the new station area plan covers a total
of 780 acres, not including the adjacent 225-acre Utah Valley
University (UVU) property.
As part of the planning process and to comply with HB462
requirements, Vineyard City will also reconsider elements
of the Downtown plan related to moderate-income housing,
transportation linkages, and open space. The planning process
engages a wide range of community stakeholders, including
local residents, property and business owners, consultants hired
by downtown area developers, and UVU, which aims to add high
frequency transit options for the Vineyard Campus.
Vineyard Station Area Plan, with artist representation of development

