STATION AREA PLANNING
Progress Update
JUNE 2025

Station Area Plans (SAP) optimize future
development in areas around rail and BRT
transit stations. SAPs are city-led plans
that promote shared objectives in a way
that fits the context for the specific city
and area.
The SAP objectives are consistent with the
Wasatch Choice Vision:
• Increase the availability and
affordability of housing.
• Promote sustainable environmental
conditions.
• Increase transportation choices and
connections.
• Enhance access to opportunities.
State law requires cities with a fixedguideway transit station (rail or BRT) to
develop a SAP and update their zoning
to implement the SAP. The Wasatch
Front Regional Council (WFRC) and
Mountainland Association of Governments
(MAG) support the communities in
developing their SAPs and are responsible
for certifying the SAPs.

Visit the map to learn about
the status of each station.

Implementation and Progress
Of the 127 station areas*
data current as of June 2025

12

22

48

1

44

Pending stations

Stations with
planning that
pre-dates HB462

SAPs being
prepared for
adoption

SAPs submitted for
certification

SAPs certified by
MPO

*There are 95 eligible stations along the Wasatch Front. The defined “station areas” for several stations extend into multiple
jurisdictions, which is why the total number of station areas exceeds the number of stations.
To view certified plans, visit wfrc.org or magutah.gov

Impact of Station Area Planning

~49,000 new housing units are planned in the SAPs certified to date

At this rate, there will be over 106,000 units planned across the 95 stations

street or trail connections are planned in each SAP, on average,
8 new
to increase people’s ability to easily reach transit stations

Technical Assistance
WFRC and MAG provide technical assistance to help communities develop Station Area
Plans, in partnership with UTA, and with support from the Governor’s Office of Economic
Opportunity. Applications are accepted on a rolling basis, and are reviewed by the program
partners. WFRC, MAG, and UTA work with communities to move SAPs forward quickly once
they receive funding.
areas have received technical assistance to fund planning
83/127 Station
activities around their station areas.

The Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity (GOEO) provided $5 million to fund SAP
technical assistance in partnership with WFRC and MAG and Utah Transit Authority.

$3.872 million in technical assistance funding has been allocated, to date
2

Learn more at wfrc.org or magutah.gov

SAP Project Examples
Sandy City’s Comprehensive Approach
In 2022, Sandy City was preparing to publish an RFP for a comprehensive general plan
update. With the passage of HB462 that spring, the scope of work for the general plan RFP
was revised to include the development of five station area plans. The fortuitous timing of
HB462 led to the SAP preparation process unfolding in a highly integrated way with the
general plan update in researching existing conditions, identifying community values, and
key strategies, and aligning goals and policies. Preparing five stations together also allowed
the team to consider how the stations work together as a whole system.
Despite neighborhoods around most of Sandy’s stations are largely built-out as stable
neighborhoods, with minimal opportunities for change, the City creatively planned for
cohesive growth, anticipating over 6,000 additional housing units. Sandy City had already
been working for years to develop one of the region’s great TODs at the Sandy Civic Center
Station, known as East Village. The project team looked closely at remaining opportunity
areas and considered what infill and redevelopment areas might look like in the surrounding
community. One of the most important outcomes was recognizing the need to improve
connections with the surrounding built environment. Residents that originally expressed
concerns with the potential impact of stations when they were being built years ago, which
led to the installation of physical barriers and disconnection from the stations, were now
expressing a desire for better access. The process of preparing the SAPs also emphasized
the importance of relationships with regional partners such as WFRC, UDOT, UTA, and
school districts.

JUNE 2025

Sandy City SAP Renderings and Photos

3

SAP Project Examples
Clearfield FrontRunner
Clearfield had engaged in Station Area Planning before,
having adopted one in 2019. Then, the technical assistance
provided along with HB462 allowed the city to revisit the plan
and address an expanded area around the station , with an
updated SAP certified in 2024.
The updated SAP contemplates an urban street network
including streetscape landscaping, benches, streetlighting,
a new bus loop, and a curb-separated bike lane on Station
Boulevard. Additionally, it includes a connection to the
Denver & Rio Grande Western Rail trail to Clearfield Station
via Antelope Drive, as well as to a nearby hospital. Much of
this is underway now! The first phase of vertical construction
will commence in 2025, beginning with a 213-unit residential
mixed-use project on Station Boulevard. This will include
two buildings, shared amenities such as a dog park, and
corner commercial space. Additional connections, retail, and
entertainment are planned near the station.

550,000sq. ft of new office
67,500

sq. ft of new commercial

2.25

acre public park & playground

1,000

units of additional housing

Anchor Tenant

The Front Climbing Gym

Clearfield FrontRunner SAP Facts

Lehi Hospital and 2100 N
Lehi’s Station Area Plan, certified in 2024, will transform the area into a vibrant, mixed-use
neighborhood that blends an industrial aesthetic with a strong focus on health and wellness.
The plan anticipates over 1,000 new housing units. With its walkable and bikeable streets,
the area will prioritize easy, safe connections between key destinations, making it a wellconnected hub for both residents and visitors.
The neighborhood will celebrate its industrial heritage while fostering a health-focused
community, attracting health-related businesses,
medical offices, fitness centers, and wellness
initiatives. This transit-oriented district will promote
active, healthy lifestyles and offer a dynamic mix
of opportunities for living, working, shopping, and
recreation, all within an environment that feels
distinctly industrial yet forward-thinking.

Lehi SAP Land Use, Public Space, and Mobility Maps

4

Aerial Image of Lehi Station Area
JUNE 2025

