Murray and Millcreek Station Area Plan:
Murray North Station
Request for Pool Letter of Qualifications
The Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) is inviting your firm to submit a Pool Letter of Qualifications
(PLOQ) in response to this Request. Please direct all questions regarding this Request to the WFRC
Project Manager listed below.
SUMMARY INFORMATION
Project
Location

Murray City & Millcreek City

Work Discipline

Station Area Planning

Project Manager Contact
WFRC Project Manager (PM)

Byron Head

PM Phone No.

615-972-2310

PM Email Address

bhead@wfrc.org

Instructions
Date Sending Request to
Consultants

October 20, 2022

Submission Deadline for Pool
Letters of Qualifications (PLOQs)

November 10, 2022 at 11:00 AM

Scope

See page 2.

Budget

$200,000 Total. For breakdown, see page 10.

Format Instructions

See page 11. The existing Pool Statement of Qualifications has
been provided to the City. The Letter of Qualifications should
supplement that information.

Submittal Instructions

Electronic submittal is required. Submit an electronic PDF file of the
PLOQ to the WFRC Project Manager by email prior to 11:00 AM on
the deadline date.
Any correspondence throughout the RPLOQ timeframe or upon
submittal must be directed to WFRC Procurement Agent, Byron
Head.
PLOQs will not be accepted after the 11:00 AM deadline.

Selection Process and Criteria,
Disqualifications

RPLOQ
Page 1 of 13

See page 12.

SCOPE OF WORK
All Station Area Plans must fulfill the planning requirements of Utah House Bill 462.

Murray North Station Area Planning Scope
Project Overview
The area around the Murray North Station has seen considerable change over the past decade. It is the
largest area of population growth for Murray City. The area was zoned with an ahead of its time zoning
ordinance that required new streets and allowed for uncapped housing densities. Millcreek City was
incorporated in 2017 and has permitted numerous housing projects in the area. The two cities are now
wanting to see how to work together to guide the growth and prosperity of the area to create a true
mixed-use and mixed-income neighborhood.
HB462 was passed by the Utah State Legislature in 2022. As part of the bill, it requires cities to plan for
moderate income housing for a ½ mile radius from major transit investment corridors (i.e., light rail).
Murray and Millcreek cities have obtained funding to develop a station area plan to be completed in
2023 to address moderate-income housing in the area. Both cities understand that providing
moderate-income housing by itself cannot constitute a complete neighborhood.
There are other areas that need to be addressed to make sure that the Murray North Trax Station
succeeds in providing a complete neighborhood including but not limited to:
●
●
●
●
●

Environmental and open space
Housing mix (type and moderate/market rates)
Services such as retail, office, etc.
Public safety
Public infrastructure such as connectivity/transportation and parking need

This project shall include elements that address each of the above categories to a degree to ensure that
first and last mile connections and complete neighborhoods are planned for. This plan will be used by
Millcreek, Murray, UTA, and other stakeholders to make decisions that result in the area becoming a true
Transit Oriented Development (TOD).

Project Scope
As stated above, the scope of the project is for land surrounding the Murray North Transit Station in a ½
mile radius around the station platform.

Schedule
It is anticipated that the project will last for at least six months and should be not longer than nine
months. This is to ensure that the plan is in place in time for the Wasatch Front Regional Council to
review the plan and adoption is completed in a timely manner.

RPLOQ
Page 2 of 13

Project Team
The steering committee will include the selected consultant, Murray and Millcreek planning staff,
Wasatch Front Regional Council project managers, UTA, and UDOT. There will be opportunities to engage
local residents, property owners, and businesses.

Project Deliverables
This project will include a plan that will be adopted by both cities and able to be certified by the Wasatch
Front Regional Council in consultation with the Utah Transit Authority. This will need to include multiple
public outreach opportunities through various mediums. These will need to be outside the normal
adoption process.
Task 1 – Existing Conditions Analysis
●
●
●
●
●

Accessibility. Connections to and from the station and opportunities to increase the catchment
area for walking and biking.
Environment. Assess opportunities to increase open and green space for existing developments
and focus on natural resources such as big cottonwood creek for remediation.
Socioeconomics. Assess the present and projected aspects of the area. What services are
needed to support the existing residents of the communities.
Public Safety. Assess the perceived public safety issues in the area. Determine strategies and best
practices to increase the perception in the area.
Market Analysis. Assess market feasibility for land uses. Determine highest and best use for
underutilized and underdeveloped properties.

Task 2 – Community Engagement
●

●

Minimum of two onsite open houses. The development of the plan should obtain input from the
community during the existing conditions analysis to determine lived experiences. Additional
open house to present area alternatives.
Regularly scheduled planning commission, city council and UTA board public meetings/hearings
during the adoption process.

Task 3 – Area Alternatives and Analysis
●
●
●

Up to three development concepts for the study area, including generalized renderings and
illustrations and an analysis of each.
Presentation to Project Team (either at open house or prior to open house).
Facilitate selection of preferred alternative.

Task 4 – Preferred Scenario and Deliverables
●
●

Complete an illustrative plan consisting of renderings and/or illustrations clearly depicting all
land use, transportation, and open space recommendations.
Complete an implementation plan that Millcreek and Murray City, UTA, and other stakeholders
may use to facilitate and implement the Preferred Scenario for the next 5 (or more) years. The
said plan ought to include:

RPLOQ
Page 3 of 13

o

●
●

Consultant outline/discussion of barriers that stand in the way of achieving a shared
vision.
o The path forward that includes critical next steps.
o Assigned responsibility for the critical next steps.
o Recommendations for how critical next steps might be funded.
o Any other information that will help develop a list of critical tasks and responsible
parties for achieving those tasks and neighborhood vision.
Update Land use diagram and include recommended changes to zoning and/or design and
development regulations, especially as they relate to the North Station Master Plan.
Create design style standards (signposts, monument signs, and public art installation styles, and
locations, interchange off-ramp aesthetic improvements), area branding, and other place making
elements.

In addition to the requirements above, the Station Area Plan will need to address all the requirements
outlined by the state statute (attached to this document). In brief, this will include a vision, a map of the
area, an implementation plan with 5-year time horizon and greater, statements explaining how the
station area plan promotes the objectives and where conditions make aspects impracticable.

RPLOQ
Page 4 of 13

HB 462 Requirements
Effective 6/1/2022
10-9a-403.1 Station area plan requirements -- Contents -- Review and certification by
applicable metropolitan planning organization.
(1) As used in this section:
(a) "Applicable metropolitan planning organization" means the metropolitan planning
organization that has jurisdiction over the area in which a fixed guideway public transit
station is located.
(b) "Applicable public transit district" means the public transit district, as defined in Section
17B-2a-802, of which a fixed guideway public transit station is included.
(c) "Existing fixed guideway public transit station" means a fixed guideway public transit
station for which construction begins before June 1, 2022.
(d) "Fixed guideway" means the same as that term is defined in Section 59-12-102.
(e) "Metropolitan planning organization" means an organization established under 23 U.S.C.
Sec. 134.
(f) "New fixed guideway public transit station" means a fixed guideway public transit station for
which construction begins on or after June 1, 2022.
(g) "Qualifying land use application" means a land use application:
(i) that involves land located within a station area for an existing public transit station that
provides rail services;
(ii) that involves land located within a station area for which the municipality has not yet
satisfied the requirements of Subsection (2)(a);
(iii) that proposes the development of an area greater than five contiguous acres;
(iv) that would require the municipality to amend the municipality's general plan or change a
zoning designation for the land use application to be approved;
(v) that would require a higher density than the density currently allowed by the municipality;
(vi) that proposes the construction of new residential units, at least 10% of which are
dedicated to moderate income housing; and
(vii) for which the land use applicant requests the municipality to initiate the process of
satisfying the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for the station area in which the
development is proposed, subject to Subsection (3)(d).
(h)
(i) "Station area" means:
(A) for a fixed guideway public transit station that provides rail services, the area within a
one-half mile radius of the center of the fixed guideway public transit station platform;
or
(B) for a fixed guideway public transit station that provides bus services only, the area
within a one-fourth mile radius of the center of the fixed guideway public transit station
platform.
(ii) "Station area" includes any parcel bisected by the radius limitation described in
Subsection (1)(h)(i)(A) or (B).
(i) "Station area plan" means a plan that:
(i) establishes a vision, and the actions needed to implement that vision, for the
development of land within a station area; and
(ii) is developed and adopted in accordance with this section.
(2)
(a) Subject to the requirements of this section, a municipality that has a fixed guideway public
transit station located within the municipality's boundaries shall, for the station area:
(i) develop and adopt a station area plan; and

RPLOQ
Page 5 of 13

(ii) adopt any appropriate land use regulations to implement the station area plan.
(b) The requirements of Subsection (2)(a) shall be considered satisfied if:
(i)
(A) the municipality has already taken actions to satisfy the requirements of Subsection
(2)(a) for a station area, including actions that involve public and stakeholder
engagement processes, market assessments, the creation of a station area vision,
planning and implementation activities, capital programs, the adoption of land use
regulations, or other similar actions; and
(B) the municipality adopts a resolution demonstrating the requirements of Subsection
(2)(a) have been satisfied; or
(ii)
(A) the municipality has determined that conditions exist that make satisfying a portion or
all of the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for a station area impracticable, including
conditions that relate to existing development, entitlements, land ownership, land uses
that make opportunities for new development and long-term redevelopment infeasible,
environmental limitations, market readiness, development impediment conditions, or
other similar conditions; and
(B) the municipality adopts a resolution describing the conditions that exist to make
satisfying the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) impracticable.
(c) To the extent that previous actions by a municipality do not satisfy the requirements of
Subsection (2)(a) for a station area, the municipality shall take the actions necessary to
satisfy those requirements.
(3)
(a) A municipality that has a new fixed guideway public transit station located within the
municipality's boundaries shall satisfy the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for the station
area surrounding the new fixed guideway public transit station before the new fixed
guideway public transit station begins transit services.
(b) Except as provided in Subsections (3)(c) and (d), a municipality that has an existing fixed
guideway public transit station located within the municipality's boundaries shall satisfy the
requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for the station area surrounding the existing fixed
guideway public transit station on or before December 31, 2025.
(c) If a municipality has more than four existing fixed guideway public transit stations located
within the municipality's boundaries, the municipality shall:
(i) on or before December 31, 2025, satisfy the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for four or
more station areas located within the municipality; and
(ii) on or before December 31 of each year thereafter, satisfy the requirements of Subsection
(2)(a) for no less than two station areas located within the municipality until the
municipality has satisfied the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for each station area
located within the municipality.
(d)
(i) Subject to Subsection (3)(d)(ii):
(A) if a municipality receives a complete qualifying land use application on or before July
1, 2022, the municipality shall satisfy the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for the
station area in which the development is proposed on or before July 1, 2023; and
(B) if a municipality receives a complete qualifying land use application after July 1, 2022,
the municipality shall satisfy the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for the station area
in which the development is proposed within a 12-month period beginning on the first
day of the month immediately following the month in which the qualifying land use
application is submitted to the municipality.
(ii)

RPLOQ
Page 6 of 13

(A) A municipality is not required to satisfy the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for more
than two station areas under Subsection (3)(d)(i) within any 12-month period.
(B) If a municipality receives more than two complete qualifying land use applications on
or before July 1, 2022, the municipality shall select two station areas for which the
municipality will satisfy the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) in accordance with
Subsection (3)(d)(i)(A).
(iii) A municipality shall process on a first priority basis a land use application, including an
application for a building permit, if:
(A) the land use application is for a residential use within a station area for which the
municipality has not satisfied the requirements of Subsection (2)(a); and
(B) the municipality would be required to change a zoning designation for the land use
application to be approved.
(e) Notwithstanding Subsections (3)(a) through (d), the time period for satisfying the
requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for a station area may be extended once for a period of
12 months if:
(i) the municipality demonstrates to the applicable metropolitan planning organization that
conditions exist that make satisfying the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) within the
required time period infeasible, despite the municipality's good faith efforts; and
(ii) the applicable metropolitan planning organization certifies to the municipality in writing
that the municipality satisfied the demonstration in Subsection (3)(e)(i).
(4)
(a) Except as provided in Subsection (4)(b), if a station area is included within the boundaries
of more than one municipality, each municipality with jurisdiction over the station area shall
satisfy the requirements of Subsection (2)(a) for the portion of the station area over which
the municipality has jurisdiction.
(b) Two or more municipalities with jurisdiction over a station area may coordinate to develop
a shared station area plan for the entire station area.
(5) A municipality that has more than one fixed guideway public transit station located within the
municipality may, through an integrated process, develop station area plans for multiple
station areas if the station areas are within close proximity of each other.
(6)
(a) A municipality that is required to develop and adopt a station area plan under this section
may request technical assistance from the applicable metropolitan planning organization.
(b) An applicable metropolitan planning organization that receives funds from the Governor's
Office of Economic Opportunity under Section 63N-3-113 shall, when utilizing the funds,
give priority consideration to requests for technical assistance for station area plans
required under Subsection (3)(d).
(7)
(a) A station area plan shall promote the following objectives within the station area:
(i) increasing the availability and affordability of housing, including moderate income
housing;
(ii) promoting sustainable environmental conditions;
(iii) enhancing access to opportunities; and
(iv) increasing transportation choices and connections.
(b)
(i) To promote the objective described in Subsection (7)(a)(i), a municipality may consider
implementing the following actions:
(A) aligning the station area plan with the moderate income housing element of the
municipality's general plan;
(B) providing for densities necessary to facilitate the development of moderate income
housing;
RPLOQ
Page 7 of 13

(C) providing for affordable costs of living in connection with housing, transportation, and
parking; or
(D) any other similar action that promotes the objective described in Subsection (7)(a)(i).
(ii) To promote the objective described in Subsection (7)(a)(ii), a municipality may consider
implementing the following actions:
(A) conserving water resources through efficient land use;
(B) improving air quality by reducing fuel consumption and motor vehicle trips;
(C) establishing parks, open spaces, and recreational opportunities; or
(D) any other similar action that promotes the objective described in Subsection (7)(a)(ii).
(iii) To promote the objective described in Subsection (7)(a)(iii), a municipality may consider
the following actions:
(A) maintaining and improving the connections between housing, transit, employment,
education, recreation, and commerce;
(B) encouraging mixed-use development;
(C) enabling employment and educational opportunities within the station area;
(D) encouraging and promoting enhanced broadband connectivity; or
(E) any other similar action that promotes the objective described in Subsection (7)(a)(iii).
(iv) To promote the objective described in Subsection (7)(a)(iv), a municipality may consider
the following:
(A) supporting investment in infrastructure for all modes of transportation;
(B) increasing utilization of public transit;
(C) encouraging safe streets through the designation of pedestrian walkways and bicycle
lanes;
(D) encouraging manageable and reliable traffic conditions;
(E) aligning the station area plan with the regional transportation plan of the applicable
metropolitan planning organization; or
(F) any other similar action that promotes the objective described in Subsection (7)(a)(iv).
(8) A station area plan shall include the following components:
(a) a station area vision that:
(i) is consistent with Subsection (7); and
(ii) describes the following:
(A) opportunities for the development of land within the station area under existing
conditions;
(B) constraints on the development of land within the station area under existing
conditions;
(C) the municipality's objectives for the transportation system within the station area and
the future transportation system that meets those objectives;
(D) the municipality's objectives for land uses within the station area and the future land
uses that meet those objectives;
(E) the municipality's objectives for public and open spaces within the station area and the
future public and open spaces that meet those objectives; and
(F) the municipality's objectives for the development of land within the station area and the
future development standards that meet those objectives;
(b) a map that depicts:
(i) the area within the municipality that is subject to the station area plan, provided that the
station area plan may apply to areas outside of the station area; and
(ii) the area where each action is needed to implement the station area plan;
(c) an implementation plan that identifies and describes each action needed within the next
five years to implement the station area plan, and the party responsible for taking each
action, including any actions to:
(i) modify land use regulations;
RPLOQ
Page 8 of 13

(ii) make infrastructure improvements;
(iii) modify deeds or other relevant legal documents;
(iv) secure funding or develop funding strategies;
(v) establish design standards for development within the station area; or
(vi) provide environmental remediation;
(d) a statement that explains how the station area plan promotes the objectives described in
Subsection (7)(a); and
(e) as an alternative or supplement to the requirements of Subsection (7) or (8), and for
purposes of Subsection (2)(b)(ii), a statement that describes any conditions that would
make the following impracticable:
(i) promoting the objectives described in Subsection (7)(a); or
(ii) satisfying the requirements of Subsection (8).
(9) A municipality shall develop a station area plan with the involvement of all relevant
stakeholders that have an interest in the station area through public outreach and
community engagement, including:
(a) other impacted communities;
(b) the applicable public transit district;
(c) the applicable metropolitan planning organization;
(d) the Department of Transportation;
(e) owners of property within the station area; and
(f) the municipality's residents and business owners.
(10)
(a) A municipality that is required to develop and adopt a station area plan for a station area
under this section shall submit to the applicable metropolitan planning organization and
the applicable public transit district documentation evidencing that the municipality has
satisfied the requirement of Subsection (2)(a)(i) for the station area, including:
(i) a station area plan; or
(ii) a resolution adopted under Subsection (2)(b)(i) or (ii).
(b) The applicable metropolitan planning organization, in consultation with the applicable
public transit district, shall:
(i) review the documentation submitted under Subsection (10)(a) to determine the
municipality's compliance with this section; and
(ii) provide written certification to the municipality if the applicable metropolitan planning
organization determines that the municipality has satisfied the requirement of Subsection
(2) (a)(i) for the station area.
(c) The municipality shall include the certification described in Subsection (10)(b)(ii) in the
municipality's report to the Department of Workforce Services under Section 10-9a-408.
Enacted by Chapter 406, 2022 General Session

RPLOQ
Page 9 of 13

BUDGET
Station Area Plan Award

$170,000

Local Match

$30,000

Total Budget

$200,000

Funding provided by the Industrial Assistance Account, administered through the Wasatch Front
Regional Council, in partnership with the Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity, the Utah
Transit Authority, and the Mountainland Association of Governments.

RPLOQ
Page 10 of 13

CONSULTANT RESPONSE FORMATTING
Cover
Content limited to image, project title, firm name, and logos
1 page
Cover Letter
1 page
Project Understanding
Outline objectives of the projects, significant opportunities and constraints, and
key issues
Maximum 400 words and 1 page
Project Approach
Basic course of action, what alternatives and/or preliminary approaches are
proposed, and what provisions are identified for dealing with potential impacts,
impediments, or conflicts. Demonstrate how the SAP will meet the planning
requirements of HB 462.
Maximum 1200 words and 3 pages
Project Team
Relevant experience of proposed personnel and firms
Maximum 800 words and 2 pages
Schedule
Maximum 1 page, no word limit
Budget
To include any portion of the project budget committed to any subconsultants
Maximum 1 page, no word limit

RPLOQ
Page 11 of 13

SELECTION AND DISQUALIFICATION
Selection Process:
Selection Team – The Selection Team will consist of staff from Murray City, Millcreek City,
UTA, and the WFRC Project Manager.
Invitation – The following firms have been invited to submit a proposal:
● AECOM
● CRSA
● Design Workshop
● GSBS Consulting
● Kimley Horn
● Logan Simpson Design
● MHTN Architects
● People + Place
● PSOMAS
● Township + Range
Ranking – The Selection Team will rank each proposal submitted based on the criteria
below. The Selection Team will rank by “consent” if needed. “Consent” is defined as the
willingness of all Team members to accept a decision reached by a collaborative process.
The Selection Team may choose to interview some or all of the proposing teams.
Selection Criteria:
Project Team: weighted 30%
● Describe the qualifications and experience of key personnel on your proposed
project team. You may include availability. (Note: Do not include percentages of
availability, as this may be misinterpreted.)
Project Approach: weighted 30%
● Describe a basic course of action, what alternatives and/or preliminary approaches
are proposed, and what provisions are identified for dealing with potential impacts,
impediments, or conflicts.
● Demonstrate how the SAP will meet the planning requirements of HB 462.
Relevant Experience: weighted 30%
● Describe any experience of key personnel with Station Area Planning or Small Area
Planning for transit stations.
Schedule: weighted 10%
● Propose a schedule to give this project the attention it needs and complete it in a
timely manner.
Disqualifications:
1. Late Submission – Any PLOQ received by the WFRC Project Manager after the
deadline listed in the RPLOQ Form.

RPLOQ
Page 12 of 13

2. Electronic Submission is required – Submit electronically a PDF file containing all
of the sections in the order presented in PLOQ Form to the WFRC Project Manager.
Paper submission is not allowed.
3. Use of WFRC staff and/or project selection committee – Use of current WFRC or
SAP partner staff, or former staff involved in SAP project awards within 6 months of
project award announcement.

4. Page Maximum – As outlined in the RPLOQ Form, “page” is defined as a
single-sided 8.5" x 11" sized sheet that contains text, pictures, tables, graphs, charts,
plan sheets, or any other graphics. A section separator page with less than 20 words
does not count as part of the page limit.
5. Do not include a reference or link to additional information. WFRC will instruct the
selection team not to refer to provided links.
6. Other – WFRC reserves the right to disqualify a PLOQ when the intent of the
RPLOQ process is violated.
Any PLOQs committing violations to the above requirements will be considered
non-responsive and will be disqualified by WFRC.
Summary:
WFRC reserves the sole right, without incurring any liability, to change any aspect of the
proposed procurement described above, including the right to not proceed with the
procurement and/or the right to proceed in a different manner or on a different timeline than
as described herein.

RPLOQ
Page 13 of 13

