2025 Project Descriptions
These are the 2025 Transportation and Land Use Connection (TLC) Awardees. Provided in
partnership with Salt Lake County, Utah Department of Transportation, and Utah Transit
Authority, the TLC program offers technical assistance focused on communities’ plans and goals
for growth. For more information on each project, please visit the TLC Project Map.
SALT LAKE COUNTY URBAN AREA
South Salt Lake City Zoning Ordinance Update
South Salt Lake City is embarking on a citywide zoning ordinance update to accomplish its
future development goals, focusing on its identified centers, multiple station areas, and busy
commercial corridors. Some portions of the city are already zoned for transit-oriented
development and a newly-approved Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone. This project will
enhance and diversify the City’s affordable housing options, promote walkable and
transit-oriented neighborhoods, support economic development, and create inclusive and
resilient communities within South Salt Lake City in the pursuit of sustainable growth. Parking
guidance is a serious project consideration, and exploring parking maximums will help
incentivize future human-scale, walkable city centers while adding capacity for housing and new
commercial opportunities.
Murray City Oakwood Village Center Small Area Plan
Designated as a “Village Center” in its general plan, Murray City looks to develop a small area
plan for Oakwood Village, an existing and prominent destination. This project has a local and
regional draw, and the city plans to increase the number of walking and biking connections to
the site per the Mid-Valley Active Transportation Plan. The Oakwood Village Center Small Area
Plan will help balance ongoing commercial and residential development pressures, identify infill
opportunities, increase transportation options serving the Oakwood Village Center, and connect
the area to the surrounding neighborhoods in Murray City. Increasing connectivity for all mobility
types and right-sizing the level of development will help the City establish a reusable and
implementable framework for future Village Centers within the City.
Sandy City Land Development Code Update
With the recent adoption of its updated General Plan, “Pace of Progress, Sandy City General
Plan 2050,” Sandy City seeks to revise its land development code. This project will help the City
achieve its goals for growth and remedy inconsistencies in the current code’s guidance.

Additionally, it will ensure the City’s General Plan is actionable, interpretable, and consistent
with current state requirements. These code improvements aim to spur new mixed-use
development within several of the City’s defined commercial centers and transportation
corridors, creating more affordable and market-rate housing opportunities. It will also improve
safe multimodal travel to employment opportunities and increase residents’ access to valuable
nearby services. Enhanced walkability and public space design requirements will promote a
“park once” approach to promote fewer vehicle trips within the City’s identified centers.
Kearns 5400 South Corridor Study
Kearns will pursue a corridor study for a section of 5400 South from the Mountain View Corridor
to Bangerter Highway, focused on challenges with safety and mobility. The project compliments
prior planning work in Kearns, including the City’s General Plan, Transportation Master Plan,
Active Transportation Plan, and the ongoing Kearns Mobility Hub Project. This study will explore
connections to the City’s identified Wasatch Choice Vision centers within or adjacent to this
corridor, including Kearns Town Center and nearby Kearns Recreation Hub, home of the
Olympic Oval. Increased mobility choices are vital to this project since many Kearns residents
travel outside the city for employment, and enhanced transit amenities will support UTA’s Core
Service Bus Plan by exploring an increased transit presence and efficiency along the Corridor.
This well-rounded approach will help Kearns residents and visitors find seamless transportation
solutions that get them to, from, and around 5400 South seamlessly and safely.
Municipal Services District Transportation Master Plan
The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) will establish a district-wide
Transportation Master Plan to enhance transit service, increase residents’ transportation
options, and encourage sustainable growth patterns. There is a need to unify the many
standalone plans developed by individual MSD communities, and this project will help create a
guiding document that connects these respective areas with the extensive, noncontiguous
footprint of unincorporated Salt Lake County and our region. With an emphasis on enhanced
safety, mobility, economic development, and sustainability, this project will establish attainable
transportation goals that detail future needs with data and findings to support them.
Millcreek City ADA Transition Plan
Many curb ramps and sidewalks within Millcreek are not compliant with state and federal
requirements, presenting a challenging and inequitable connectivity issue. To improve the
condition and continuity of these facilities, the Millcreek City ADA Transition Plan will help
identify obstacles that limit access for those experiencing disabilities. Data collection is the
primary goal of this project and will inform a detailed action plan for the future. This project will
also support Utah State University’s Local Technical Assistance Program, an opportunity for the
University’s College of Engineering students to assist the City with data collection while getting
valuable professional experience. Along with creating a more accessible community for all
users, this Plan will be a living document with periodic updates and a citywide focus.

OGDEN-LAYTON URBAN AREA
Riverdale City​Stringtown Master Plan
With its second-ever TLC award, Riverdale City will develop a master plan for its future desired
neighborhood center, “Stringtown.”. Situated on the Weber River west of Riverdale Road,
Stringtown will combine its proximity to valuable open space with a compact and human-scale
development, resulting in a vibrant, mixed-use center. With the increasing vehicle congestion on
Riverdale Road, the City’s busy commercial corridor, this Plan will incorporate trails and other
mobility options into Stringtown’s urban fabric to help take pressure off this busy corridor and
ensure safe and reliable access to the future center. Intentional land use strategies like shared
infrastructure like parking, public and open space, and stormwater accommodations will help
make this future center efficient and environmentally sustainable while also making considerable
public infrastructure investments.
South Ogden City Center Master Plan
South Ogden’s City Center Master Plan will help turn the City’s identified Wasatch Choice Vision
center into a mixed-use, regional destination. Increased housing opportunities will play a key
role in this project, as the City is already 90% built out, and continued growth adds development
pressure. A significant component of this project will be an economic impact analysis exploring
the economic and social benefits this future center will create, as the City desires to bring
residents and visitors to the future center for events. The resulting housing strategies and
guidance from the economic impact analysis will support South Ogden’s vision for the area,
creating a destination where people can live, work, and play. The project area is bounded by
many busy street corridors, namely Washington Boulevard and 40th Street. This project will
encourage the city leadership to look at traffic-calming opportunities that enhance accessibility
for all mobility types and possibly a future mobility hub.
South Davis Greenway Feasibility Study
This four-city collaboration seeks to determine the best possible alignment for a separated and
high-comfort pathway through south Davis County. This partnership between North Salt Lake
City, Bountiful, Centerville, and Farmington aims to establish a route for the South Davis
Greenway, filling a critical gap in the area’s active transportation network. Inspired by the need
for a separated pathway east of Interstate 15, a future greenway will give residents of the area
access to places by walking, biking, and rolling. This project will also explore connections to
nearby transportation projects, such as the South Davis Connector, to increase multimodal trips
within the region. Twelve distinct Wasatch Choice Vision Centers in the area. This study will
detail connections to these centers that promote improved multimodal access and increased
public investment in the future facility.

Plain City General Plan and Land Use Code Update
To keep pace with the growth the City is experiencing, Plain City will update its General Plan
with revised code language, annexation policies, and general plan elements that satisfy state
requirements. This project will result in a guiding document the Plain City can use to direct
growth where needed with a development code that suits the City’s future vision. With an
emphasis on the Plan being readily usable for city decision-makers, it will also help the City plan
for future neighborhood centers with increased walkability and connectivity to adjacent
neighborhoods. The project will also include a comprehensive implementation plan with detailed
capital improvement projects focused on growth areas and a plan to measure progress. The
City’s residents will be a constant focus of this project, and the Plan will have comprehensive
public engagement that emphasizes preserving open space to retain the City’s values.
Hooper City Zoning Ordinance and Design Standards Update
Hooper aims to put its 2022 General Plan into action with updates to the City’s zoning
ordinances and design standards to accommodate the rapid growth the community is
experiencing. Historically a farming town, Hooper prides itself on the agricultural heritage it was
built on, yet is eager to embrace growth where appropriate and invest in transportation options
that suit its residents. Public engagement is a vital component of this project, as Hooper wants
its residents to have a say in the outcome of these updated ordinances and design standards.
The revised standards will complement the city’s ongoing Transportation Master Plan effort and
focus on all aspects of city infrastructure. In addition to these activities, the City will update its
zoning and future land use maps for clear guidance toward the future it wants.
Uintah City General Plan Update - conducted by WFRC staff
Unitah is motivated to update its general plan and create a clear and cohesive guiding
document for the city to move forward with. This project came to fruition thanks to WFRC’s
Local Administrative Advisor, Madison Aviles, and this encouragement has led the City to
consider innovative ways to support the Wasatch Choice Vision. The opportunities for this
project include studying the potential for increased street connectivity. Uintah is not a large city,
yet there is a need to take pressure off 6600 South, the City’s main street thoroughfare. Uintah
is also interested in updating its land use guidance to enable more home businesses to boost
the local economy and reduce unnecessary vehicle trips within its boundaries. This project will
be administered by the Community and Economic Development staff at WFRC.
City of West Haven Land Use Analysis
Like many cities in the region experiencing exponential growth, the City of West Haven wants to
establish land use guidance that reflects the interest and values of the community with a
thorough citywide land use analysis. This effort coincides with several recently-completed and
ongoing projects, including the City’s Capital Facilities Plan, General Plan Update, Economic
Master Plan, and traffic studies of major street corridors. Developing destinations within West

Haven is a critical focus of this analysis, as many essential services residents need fall outside
city boundaries. This focus on bringing destinations closer to home coincides with the City’s
desire to update its future land use map. This update ensures that future infrastructure
investments create more housing opportunities, shorter and more convenient trips to access
services, and promote economic growth within West Haven.

