2021 Project Descriptions
These are the 2021 Transportation and Land Use Connection Recipients, a program provided in
partnership with Salt Lake County, Utah Department of Transportation, and Utah Transit
Authority. For more information please visit wfrc.org/tlc.
Holladay and Millcreek Wasatch Boulevard Master Plan Phase II
Building upon the TLC-funded Wasatch Boulevard Master Plan Phase I completed by
Cottonwood Heights in 2017, the proposed Wasatch Boulevard Master Plan Phase II focuses on
the corridor from 3300 South to 6200 South. The Plan will not only provide long-range
transportation and land use planning insights to address ever-increasing demands on the
corridor, but also enable the cities to address the needs resulting from the 105-acre mixed-use
Cottonwood Heights Gravel Pit redevelopment that is currently underway. Wasatch Boulevard
Master Plan Phase II aims to understand the values and priorities for the corridor; document
and interpret the existing conditions, barriers, future trends, and development plans; develop
and test potential corridor improvements; and form a short- and long-term vision of the corridor
with actionable strategies.
Kearns On-Street Parking Study
The Kearns On-Street Parking Study will evaluate on-street parking supply and demand in each
of the two study areas, which are representative of residential neighborhoods throughout the
metro township. In addition to understanding parking capacity, the study will evaluate challenges
of existing on-street parking, including barriers to mobility and maintenance, and propose
potential solutions for addressing demand for, and challenges posed by, on-street parking. The
Kearns On-Street Parking Study will establish a quantitative and spatial understanding of
on-street parking supply and demand, address safety concerns, improve maintenance, develop
viable alternatives to on-street parking in areas where parked cars cause safety concerns for
people walking, biking, or using other forms of active transportation, and identify creative land
use solutions to balance parking needs and reduce automobile dependency. The data and
recommendations gathered from the two study areas will be used to inform decision making in
similar areas throughout the metro township.
Midvale City State Street Corridor Study
The Midvale State Street Corridor Study will build on the City’s 2016 General Plan and provide
focused direction for improvements to urban design, land use, economic development, and
active transportation along the State Street corridor in Midvale. The objectives of the Midvale
State Street Corridor Study include improving local and regional connectivity for all users of the
corridor; developing new policies and a regulatory framework to promote reinvestment in the

corridor; creating a complimentary network of character districts to establish a sense of place;
and improving the overall aesthetic appearance of the corridor.
Salt Lake City Downtown Building Height and Public and Pedestrian Space Code Update
This project will evaluate and update zoning regulations pertaining to building heights in the
downtown SLC area and the impacts that building height has on public spaces. One goal of the
project is to increase building heights in the downtown area to accommodate future growth and
implement the current Downtown Master Plan. Additionally, the project will identify ways to
address impacts on public spaces that are created by taller building heights. Known impacts
include solar access and shading; glare from building materials; ice, snow, and water draining
onto public spaces; and changing wind patterns. In terms of urban design, the project will
identify necessary ground floor activation standards and preserve view corridors to important
city buildings and environmental features. This project is focused on encouraging concentrated
and sustainable growth in the transit rich downtown area.
Salt Lake City Granary District Area Plan
The Granary District is experiencing rapid growth and, as an historic light industrial area, has an
aging transportation network. This project will work to maximize all modes of travel to serve the
significant change in use and density that is coming to the area. It will evaluate options for
increased connectivity within the area, as well as to and from adjacent neighborhoods. The
primary objective of the project is to inform future transportation facility upgrades that will be
needed in the near term, so that prudent investments can be made. A secondary objective is to
ensure that walkability, bikeway, and roadway improvements are well-coordinated with the
passenger rail connections being planned in the area and with the land use development that is
in the planning stages or already underway.
Sandy City General Plan Update
Sandy City will be completing the first comprehensive General Plan Update since its original
adoption in 1979. During the ensuing 40 years, the population has nearly doubled and the area
of the City has increased by 6 square miles. The General Plan Update will include a robust
public engagement process to allow community members and stakeholders to provide input and
to better understand opportunities and challenges faced by the city. A document review of the
relevant existing master plans will be completed in order to understand their place in the overall
vision and to identify community values. The final General Plan document will be one that
guides future decisions affecting growth, development, and livability in the City.
White City Metro: Walk White City
The data-driven and community-informed Walkability Plan aims to provide good access to, and
smooth, safe transitions between, key locations within and outside of White City. The plan will
increase pedestrian and bicyclist access, safety, and comfort and make transportation areas
more aesthetically pleasing, environmentally friendly, culturally interesting, and
health-conscious. These project objectives are directly derived from the transportation-related
objectives in White City's in-progress General Plan that were developed by city staff members
and public input. The final report will include a sidewalk gap analysis, crosswalk analysis,
priority-ranked summary of needed projects, and high-resolution maps and graphics pertinent to
the project.

Bountiful City Comprehensive General Plan Update
The Comprehensive General Plan Update will help provide direction and guidance regarding
future land use, housing, redevelopment, infrastructure, transportation, economic development,
sustainability, smart growth, and various other opportunities and decisions. A significant desired
outcome is to have a more refined and understandable General Plan that will easily
communicate the priorities and intentions of the city to any reader. The intent is to restore the
General Plan as the paramount guiding document for planning, redevelopment, and
infrastructure decision making. It will succinctly set forth the goals and policies for future
development, stewardship of resources, and overall direction for the city.
Clearfield City Parking Study
Clearfield City has experienced enormous growth and now has more varied land uses than ever
before. The city is seeking to evaluate parking in order to appropriately address needs in
relation to associated land uses. The city has implemented a form-based code in the downtown,
begun the development of a TOD, and continues to see jobs and industry grow. Analyzing all
aspects of vehicle parking will have an impact on the built environment and adjacent land uses.
Ensuring that each land use is tied to the correct parking ratio is vital to the design and function
of each site and has an important impact on differing modes of transportation. This analysis will
increase the city's ability to responsibly plan for parking use in and around the downtown area
as well as in other commercial, industrial, and institutional facilities throughout the city.
Farmington City Station Area Plan
The city believes a Station Area Plan will create a shared vision and maximize business,
neighborhood, and station connectivity. The Farmington Station Area Plan will develop clear
land-use alternatives, determine the appropriate mix of residential and commercial development
based on market demand, forecast ridership using Transit Oriented Development (TOD)
Modeling Tools, minimize land-use conflicts, analyze the impact of zoning requirements on
potential densities, incorporate bike and pedestrian access, and provide great public spaces.
The effort will be a partnership between the City and UTA. The Station Area Plan will focus on
land use, urban design, transportation, infrastructure and utilities, economic development, and
sustainability.
Layton City Active Transportation Plan
Layton City desires to compile and update bike, trail, and transit plans into one overarching
document to be known as the Layton City Active Transportation Plan. The updated Active
Transportation Plan will provide policy guidance as well as recommendations for public and
private partnerships and investment strategies. The project will include a thorough review of the
existing bike paths, trails, and transit plans. Opportunities for further development of active
transportation routes will be explored through public engagement with the community. Careful
attention will be paid to active transportation plans in neighboring cities in order to facilitate
smooth transitions and connections between all trail systems and bicycle routes.
Morgan County Market Study, Mountain Green and Petersen Plans
The project includes two Small Area Plans and a Market Research Study. The first Small Area
Plan includes the unincorporated area of Petersen. The Small Area Study will help to determine
the short and long-term impacts of pending development on the surrounding communities and

will provide a strategic map of planned growth that maximizes additional development
opportunities. The second Small Area Plan is on the unincorporated area of Mountain Green,
which is directly adjacent to I-84. The Mountain Green area has the potential to capture
economic activity from commuters traveling through the county while also managing traffic from
surrounding ski resorts. The plan will assist the county in capturing the potential economic
impact associated with a leisure travel destination between two major ski resorts (Snowbasin
and Park City).
The third area of focus is a Market Study for the unincorporated areas of west Morgan, which
include Petersen, Mountain Green, and Enterprise. This Market Study will assist the county in
identifying target business audiences, target clientele, and what is trending in a target industry.
This will assist the county in zoning, marketing, and infrastructure buildout.
Ogden City Make Ogden Ordinance, Central Business District
Ogden City will be creating and implementing a new ordinance that will allow changes to
improve their Central Business District (CBD). The city will create a hybrid ordinance that is
designed to implement the Make Ogden Plan, improve the quality of development in the CBD,
create standards that better utilize the land and create public streetscape standards, and
provide provisions that create better connectivity to all areas of the CBD. The new ordinance
will address design, exterior building materials, use and design of the public realm, more
efficient use of parking, and appropriate downtown uses.
Weber County Housing Affordability and Access Plan
This project will be done in partnership with WFRC staff.

Weber County will conduct a holistic review of housing affordability trends across the entire
county. The review will include availability of current housing stock and locations that are at or
below 80% AMI, 50% AMI, and 30% AMI; 5 and 10-year projected demand for housing at each
of these AMI thresholds; and the creation of goals, objectives, and implementation strategies
that each jurisdiction can implement to provide for the projected demand. The final plan will
consider each jurisdiction's existing plan, but also assemble strategies and best management
practices regardless of jurisdictional boundaries. The plan will also consider the equitable
connection of affordable housing to access to community opportunities such as transportation,
medical services, jobs, recreation, etc.
West Haven, Plain City, Marriott-Slaterville, Hooper, Roy, North Ogden, Weber County: Western
Weber County Active Transportation Plan
The objective of this study is to initiate collaboration between all of the entities involved to
develop an overall, comprehensive active transportation plan. The plan will consolidate all
existing active transportation plans to ensure that current planning or existing improvements are
incorporated. Coordination between entities will allow for future improvements to be prioritized
and to identify projects that can be continued from one city to another. Identifying funding
sources available to each city for future improvements is also an objective to enable the planned
project to become a reality. The final deliverable is anticipated to be an active transportation
plan with data added to an interactive map on GIS. The information included in the interactive
map will include the existing and proposed active transportation improvements along with
information about, and prioritization for, each proposed improvement.

