ANNUAL REPORT CARD 2024

2014 - 2024 PROJECTS

10 Years

Of technical assistance

88%

of WFRC-area
communities reached

152

projects awarded to date

$18 Million

in TLC partner investment
for projects that further
TLC Program goals and
the Wasatch Choice Vision

PROJECT SELECTION
The TLC projects are selected according to the program’s mission and goals. Partners work together to guide local and regional
projects from kickoff to completion, from small projects focusing on a few blocks to county-wide efforts directly involving several
communities.

COMMUNITY HIGHLIGHT
North Ogden Independent TLC Awards: $132,500; Joint TLC Awards: $108,000
North Ogden recently adopted its South Town Commercial Center Plan, a 2022 TLC project focusing on one of its vital commercial
gateways. The plan takes this vibrant community hub and enhances it with strategies for economic development, transportation
connections, and daylighting one of the City’s local streams. Market-driven approaches of the plan help North Ogden pursue project
funding opportunities and ways to support local businesses. Along with the Commercial Center Plan, North Ogden has two additional
TLC project awards. In 2015, the City pursued a new form-based code approach. The City is working on an active transportation plan
to expand walking and biking connections.
“South Town Center is a gateway to North Ogden along Washington Boulevard. This area of the city has two of our most
iconic buildings, The Cannery and Kirt’s Drive-in, and is within an RDA area of the City. The plan included significant
community involvement in the planning process and was supported by a market study. Ultimately, the plan helped North
Ogden City consider ways to invest RDA funds in this highly visual area of the city.”
- Mayor S. Neal Berube, North Ogden City

IMPLEMENTING CENTERS

New and Improved Project Map

The TLC Program brings together key stakeholders to
produce visionary and implementable plans. TLC supports
projects that positively impact the region and implement
the Wasatch Choice Vision. Key to achieving our shared
Vision is a centers-based approach to building our
neighborhoods and a multimodal approach to connecting
our communities.
Centers come in varying sizes, including established
centers like Salt Lake City’s Downtown and emerging
centers like Downtown Clearfield, North Ogden Downtown,
and Grantsville Main Street. The TLC Program helps
communties to implement these centers.

New for 2024 is an interactive Transportation and Lane
Use Connection (TLC) Project Map. With the platform,
users can filter projects by status, project type, and year
awarded. Users can also select a project, showing the
geographic scope of the project area, funding sources,
and project documents.
To view the new map, scan the QR code.

plans explore the connection between land use and transportation through
73 TLC
multimodal connections to, from, or within centers.
projects have focused on studying market conditions and feasibility as a
24 TLC
critical first step in making land use and transportation decisions.

Station Area Planning Technical Assistance
Communities along the Wasatch Front with fixed guideway transit stations must develop
a Station Area Plan (SAP) per HB 462 (2022), Housing Affordability Amendments. Key
components of this legislation and objectives of SAPs include housing affordability, access
to opportunity, environmental sustainability, and transportation choices. This requirement
aims to address growth while maintaining the quality of life that makes this region special and
directly ties into the greater Wasatch Choice Vision and TLC Program.
Communities that need to adopt SAPs are eligible for technical assistance to help them
achieve their vision for their station areas. Accepted on a rolling basis, technical assistance
helps these communities update their general plans and zoning codes to implement their
Station Area Plans.
For more resources on Station Area Plans and technical assistance, scan the QR code.

PROJECT HIGHLIGHT: Walk White City
Walk White City started as a TLC Program award in 2021 and helped White City
establish a comprehensive plan to implement a network of safe, accessible,
and comfortable routes for residents of all ages and abilities. The plan has
several overarching goals, including connections to community destinations, a
renewed sense of place, and design concepts to make established walking routes
aesthetically pleasing. White City has a significant number of older and younger
residents, prompting project partners to develop a set of objectives to serve users
who rely on walking for mobility and health benefits.

COMMUNITY HIGHLIGHT
Midvale Independent TLC Awards: $726,000; Joint TLC Awards: $110,000
Midvale has received seven technical assistance awards to date, including two station area plans, a corridor study of State Street, a
master plan of the City’s iconic main street, an ongoing transportation master plan, and two new project awards for 2024. The City’s
recently completed Historic Main Street Master Plan explores the opportunities to make a great street even greater. Safety for walking
and biking, access to businesses, and creating a place with increased social interactions are some of the plan’s goals. Two new TLC
project awards focus on establishing connections to parks and public space and establishing Wasatch Choice Vision centers by
extending the Porter Rockwell Trail.
“The Transporation and Land Use Connection Program has helped Midvale City effectively engage our community as
we plan for the future. From creating east to west connections through the Canal Trail Feasibility Study and supporting
pedestrian safety through the State Street Corridor Study, this program has been vital to the long-term planning of our
community.”
- Mayor Marcus Stevenson, Midvale City

Station and Small Area Plans, helping communities pursue their goals
51 TLC-funded
for growth, mobility, and access to opportunities.
transportation plans that expand mobility choices have been funded
25 Active
through the TLC Program.

2024 Project Awards:
• Bluffdale Active Transportation Plan
• Midvale Parks & Open Space Plan
• Porter Rockwell Trail Plan
• Riverton Combined Active and Master
Transportation Plan Updates
• 500 & 600 South Grand Boulevards
Concept Design
• Clearfield City Master Transportation Plan
• Clinton City General & Small Area Plans
• Kaysville City Center Small Area Plan
• North Salt Lake Town Center Urban Design
Standards
• 3-Gate Trail Implementation Study and
Markey Analysis
• Stockton Town Comprehensive General
Plan, Code Updates

Mission
The Transportation and Land Use Connection supports local
governments in their planning efforts to implement the Wasatch
Choice Vision.

Goals
•

Maximize the value of investment in public infrastructure

•

Enhance access to opportunities

•

Increase travel options to optimize mobility

•

Create communities with opportunities to live, work, and play

Learn More
Does your community have a project
concept they would like to explore? Do you
need assistance reviewing and updating
your ordinances? To learn more, please
contact Megan Townsend.
mtownsend@wfrc.org
801.404.8925
wfrc.org/tlc

Our future quality of life depends on the choices we make today.
Wasatch Choice Vision is our communities’ shared vision for
coordinated transportation investments, development patterns,
and economic opportunities. The Wasatch Choice Vision map
and key strategies show how advancing the Vision can enhance
quality of life even as we grow.

