2026 Project Descriptions

These are the 2026 Transportation and Land Use Connection (TLC) Awarded Projects.
The TLC program provides technical assistance to local communities to help them
achieve their goals and plan for growth. For more information on each project, please visit
the TLC Project Map.
TLC is provided by the Wasatch Front Regional Council in partnership with Utah
Department of Transportation, Utah Transit Authority, and the Governor’s Office of
Planning and Budget.

SALT LAKE COUNTY
Town of Alta General Plan
The Town of Alta will update its 2005 General Plan as the town faces continued growth
and tourism demand. The town wants to be proactive in adapting to transportation
changes coming with the UDOT Little Cottonwood Canyon project, including renewing the
city’s Vision Statement from 2012 and the existing “Town Center Commercial" land use
and zoning regulations. The plan will also help the town coordinate anticipated water and
sewer infrastructure upgrades, and plan for enhancements around existing and future
transit stops.
Town of Copperton Small Area Plan
The Town of Copperton intends to take a look at land use throughout the city, and
develop small area plans for its annexation areas as well as the former site of Bingham
High School. The town is looking to increase its community-serving commercial
development potential, as well as transportation connectivity and walkability. The project
will include existing conditions analysis, an economic feasibility study, land use and
zoning recommendations, design standards, and a prioritized list of transportation
improvements.
Draper City Transportation Master Plan
Draper City seeks to update its transportation master plan to synthesize the
recommendations from recent planning and development efforts, including the city’s four
station areas as well as The Point development. The new plan will address new
requirements, and include updated population growth assumptions to help identify and
prioritize new projects. Deliverables will include a phased Capital Facilities Plan to aid
implementation.

2026 Project Descriptions
Holladay City Commercial District Redevelopment Plan and Ordinance Update
Holladay will engage in a comprehensive ordinance update to align with the city’s
recently-completed General Plan. In addition, the project will produce a small area plan for
the City of Holladay’s portion of the Wasatch Choice Vision center at the intersection of
3900 S and Highland Dr in time to apply the new appropriate ordinances to complement
the plan. The small area plan will explore redevelopment opportunities in the center,
including moderate-income housing and the 3900 S Shared Use Path envisioned in both
the Midvalley Active Transportation Plan and the Utah Trail Network. The ordinance
rewrite will update the city’s land use and development management code to reflect the
city’s new vision for infill and mixed-use redevelopment in identified centers.
Magna City 201 Corridor Special Area Plan
Magna City wishes to refine the vision for the SR-201 corridor and explore the potential of
the corridor to support employment and commercial opportunities, as well as workforce
housing. The plan will guide land use and multimodal transportation changes to help
develop an industrial research park, lifestyle center, and high-quality housing. It will
include a market analysis, land use framework, and transportation strategies to better
connect the area to both Tooele and Salt Lake City.
Midvale City General Plan Land Use Element - conducted by WFRC staff
Midvale City wishes to update the land use element of its 2016 general plan with more
specificity and detail around the city’s “areas of change.” These were identified in the
previous planning effort, but no more visioning or policy work was done. The city is now
ready to explore these areas in more detail, including creating and assigning different
typologies to each area, and recommended ordinance changes to implement the vision.
This project will be carried out by WFRC staff.
Millcreek City Parley’s Trail Connection Feasibility Study
This project will investigate the potential of constructing a link to Parley’s Trail from the
residential neighborhood behind the Canyon Rim shopping center in Millcreek. The
project team will conduct community engagement, identify a preferred alignment, develop
cost estimates for construction, and create an implementation plan to move the project
through to construction once the planning work is done.

2026 Project Descriptions
DAVIS, WEBER, BOX ELDER COUNTIES
Davis County Regional Trails Wayfinding & Signage Plan
This project will help users better utilize and enjoy the county’s extensive and growing
off-street trail system. The plan will develop standards for signage, mile markers,
pavement markings, and maps for the facilities, with input from Davis County
communities regarding the visual language and design of the materials. The county plans
to immediately move into implementation of the plan with funding for purchase and
installation of the materials once their design has been finalized.
Farr West City General Plan
The city seeks to update its general plan with an eye to anticipated growth over the
coming decades. This project will integrate land use, transportation, economic
development, and open space elements to create a cohesive vision for the city. It will also
include modeling and visualizations to communicate the tradeoffs of different growth and
development scenarios to city officials and the public. Finally, the plan will include an
implementation plan to help the city put the plan into motion.
Ogden City Five Points Area Master Plan
Ogden City will conduct a small area plan for the Five Points Wasatch Choice Vision
center. The plan will develop a land use vision, zoning recommendations, and
infrastructure strategy for the center. The vision and zoning recommendations will focus
on transportation connectivity, redevelopment opportunities, and urban design elements.
The plan will also include an implementation plan to help the city bring the center to life
once the project is done.
Pleasant View City General Plan - conducted by WFRC staff
Pleasant View intends to update the city’s 2017 general plan with an emphasis on housing
choice, multi-modal transportation, and supporting expanded transit service. The plan will
identify areas suitable for more intense, walkable, mixed-use development and
redevelopment, based in part on their transportation connections, both existing and
planned in the city’s master street plan.
City of West Haven Transportation Master Plan and Transportation Element
This project is a second phase of a 2025 TLC project for the city’s land use element. The
project will forecast future growth in population and traffic, identify where new, more
intense land uses will require new multimodal transportation infrastructure, create a
prioritized list of projects and estimated costs, and potentially develop new street cross
sections.

2026 Project Descriptions
ASSOCIATION OF GOVERNMENTS AREA
Ogden Valley City General Plan, Transportation Master Plan, and Zoning Roadmap
This project will develop planning documents needed by the newly-incorporated city. The
city will create a general plan and transportation master plan. This document will set the
city’s vision for decades to come, and will include identifying areas appropriate for mixed
uses and opportunities to “live, work, and play,” as well as address specific needs as a
host of the Winter Olympic Games in 2034 The project will also deliver an audit of
existing, and recommendations for new, zoning regulations.
Grantsville City General Plan
This project will allow Grantsville City to update its vision as it prepares for significant
continued growth in both population and jobs. The plan will aim to maintain the quality of
life for the city’s residents through complete, livable neighborhoods and a recognition of
the need to link transportation, utility, and other infrastructure projects with land use
decisions. The city aims to locate housing, jobs, schools, and services in closer proximity
to one another to reduce travel distances and allow residents to have choices in how they
get around.
Rush Valley Town General Plan and Land Use Code
This project will identify potential areas for additional development in the town, based on
existing and planned infrastructure. The plan will also identify potential connectivity
improvements in the street network, and potential new trails. The project will also deliver
new ordinances for the city to enact the vision outlined in the general plan.

