2022 Project Descriptions
These are the 2022 Transportation and Land Use Connection (TLC) Recipients. The TLC
program is provided in partnership with Salt Lake County, Utah Department of Transportation,
and Utah Transit Authority. For more information please visit wfrc.org/tlc.
SALT LAKE COUNTY URBANIZED AREA
Copperton Active Transportation Plan & Connectivity Ordinance
This effort includes both a community active transportation plan and a land use ordinance
update to promote multi-modal transportation choices and connections to regional land use
centers. The Copperton ATP+C is a step in the implementation of the General Plan, which
identifies several active transportation needs. The project will serve to leverage Copperton's
existing assets while recommending actions to address identified gaps in the transportation and
land use network.
Herriman Transit Corridor & Land Use Study
This study will identify the ideal use of a corridor that has been preserved for future transit,
including preferable transit mode(s), existing and future land use options, and connectivity to
neighboring cities' transit corridors. The completed study should identify options to be
considered for implementation for a phased approach to transit in Herriman.
Holladay Study Of I-215 Shared Use Active Transportation Path
This study will evaluate the use of right-of-way on the north side of the 1-215 corridor, from
Highland Drive to 6200 South/Holladay Blvd, as a shared-use, active transportation (AT) path.
The study will identify data, trends, benefits and barriers; develop and test potential path
locations and design elements with consideration of nearby businesses; gather feedback from
residents; understand estimated construction costs, operation and maintenance details; and
recommend an implementation strategy; and provide policy direction.
Midvale Historic Main Street Urban Design Project
Midvale City seeks to transform its historic Main Street into a unique destination along the
Wasatch Front. The City desires to provide a Main Street that creates a sense of place,
promotes walkability, and provides a one-of-a-kind experience to all visitors. To do that, this
project will produce a design concept for year-round festival lighting, a streetscape design
concept, a wayfinding plan, and a comprehensive parking strategy. Together, these efforts will

enable Main Street to balance vehicular and pedestrian access and support a vibrant Main
Street.
Salt Lake City 1300 East / University District Circulation Plan
The 1300 East/University District Circulation Plan seeks to recommend transportation changes
for the area to complement land uses; improve connections to the University of Utah; consider
additional transit, walking, and biking improvements on 1300 East and University streets;
strengthen the local business restaurant/retail district; and update strategies for managing
parking and motor vehicle traffic. The Plan will result in corridor recommendations for 1300 East
and University Streets, strategies to incorporate a new 200 South / University Street Mobility
Hub, and conceptual designs for ped/bike improvements particularly at intersections and
crossings.
Salt Lake City 300 West Corridor Plan & Zoning Amendments
The proposed project will create a land use plan for the 300 West corridor and develop
supportive zoning regulations to align future development with the redesigned and
under-construction 300 West street between approximately 900 South and 2100 South. The
corridor land use plan will identify uses that support the conversion of 300 West from an
auto-oriented, high speed street to a livable street that provides grade separated bike paths,
wider sidewalks, and other pedestrian improvements. Draft zoning regulations for the 300 West
Transitional Area will also support the implementation of the Ballpark Station Area Plan.
South Salt Lake Central Pointe Station Area Plan
As the vision for South Salt Lake’s Downtown is implemented and development occurs, there is
a need to ensure that the change and growth aligns with transit investments that have been
made in the area. This station area plan will focus on the nexus of transit infrastructure, the
surrounding built environment, land uses, and connections to the available rider network. The
goal is to package the deliverable as both a vision and implementation plan that South Salt Lake
and UTA may use to guide future decisions.
Salt Lake County Southwest Waterways Visioning
This project will produce a visioning plan for creek drainages and corridors in the south western
areas of Salt Lake County. The purpose is to look holistically at drainage corridors (waterways)
from the Oquirrh and Wasatch foothills to the Jordan River and develop unique solutions across
city boundaries. This effort will consider opportunities for active transportation, wildlife habitat,
water quality, stormwater, best management practices, green infrastructure, economic
development, land use, and methods to assist in implementation of the goals.

OGDEN-LAYTON URBANIZED AREA
Farmington North Station Area Innovative Transportation Study
This feasibility study of transit options within Farmington's North Station Business Park will
include an analysis of viable types of transit, routes, operational needs, and costs given the
transportation and land use context. It will align transit options with new and existing
development. This project will build on and implement the ongoing Station Area Plan. Upon
completion of this project, Farmington City and UTA will have a unified vision for transit options
serving the North Station Business Park as well as steps for implementation.
Layton Gordon and Highway 89 Town Center Master Plan
This master plan will create a vision for a town center that creates a sense of community, and
describe in detail what steps should be taken to bring this vision to fruition. The master plan will
be a tool to help visualize the full potential of the town center, including the best and highest
uses of land, connectivity within the center, and the center’s relation to the new highway
interchange.
North Salt Lake Town Center Market Study
The City’s rapidly redeveloping Town Center needs a market study to make data-driven
decisions about how to incentivize developments or businesses with redevelopment funds and
infrastructure improvements. The Market Study will understand the feasibility of locating
businesses in the Town Center, identify suitable strategies for the redevelopment area, and
ensure development is pedestrian and transit-oriented. This study contributes to the City’s goal
to create a true destination and a gathering place for the City's residents.
North Ogden South Town Commercial Center Plan
This market-driven Commercial Center Plan will provide the City with information on retail
needs, housing opportunities, and policy changes needed to implement a walkable, successful
center. The plan will identify redevelopment strategies that complement the natural and historic
features, transit access, and unique built environment features. The project area encompasses
the historic Cannery Building, iconic Kirts Drive-in, historic Cold Water Creek, and a major
transportation corridor.
Ogden Citywide Zoning Ordinance Update
This project will update Ogden's zoning code (Title 15) citywide to meet present development
trends and be a helpful tool to implement the city's general plan. The new code will be user
friendly for planners, the public, and the development community and clearly explain the city's
requirements for land use regulations. Revisions will utilize road type and public transportation
options in density considerations. Revising the ordinances will help direct higher density
development to areas with the most transportation access, and enhance missing middle
housing to neighborhoods.

Riverdale General Plan Comprehensive Update
This Riverdale General Plan Update will meet the community’s need for a modern planning
approach that considers the community’s desired future going into 2030 and beyond. The new
General Plan will include updates to moderate income housing, future transportation, open
space and parks, area land use, and other service related planning elements. The land use and
transportation elements, and how they relate, will be especially important for Riverdale.
West Point General Plan Update
This project includes an updated general plan for the entire city, with a focus on coordinating
with and building off the ongoing market analysis and small area plan of the new interchange
with West Davis Corridor and SR-193. The plan will take into account the city’s current growth
patterns and establish the city’s shared vision. The General Plan will inform what the best land
uses are for the interchange area, which is timely given the construction of the West Davis
Corridor.

RURAL PLANNING ORGANIZATION (RPO) AREA: TOOELE COUNTY
Tooele City Active Transportation Plan
Tooele City will create an active transportation plan that guides implementation of pedestrian
and bicycle facilities to meet the needs of the growing community. The plan’s suggested
pedestrian and bicycle improvements will align with intensive land uses to integrate
transportation modes where they are most needed. Suggested facilities should yield positive
public health, economic, mobility, accessibility, and quality of life benefits for residents. The plan
will also guide future project prioritization and development.

