TRANSPORTATION AND LAND USE CONNECTION’S

Ordinance Assistance Opportunity
Mission

The Transportation and Land Use Connection program supports local governments in their
planning efforts to implement the Wasatch Choice Vision. The new Ordinance Assistance
opportunity lowers the barrier to entry for local governments to receive WFRC assistance in
auditing and suggesting updates to ordinances that implement the Wasatch Choice Vision.

Transportation and Land Use Connection Goals
•
•
•
•

Maximize the value of investment in public infrastructure.
Enhance access to opportunities.
Increase travel options to optimize mobility.
Create communities with opportunities to live, work, and play.

About Ordinance Assistance

The Ordinance Assistance opportunity aims to help communities in implementing their planning
goals through local ordinances. The program provides technical assistance regarding ordinances
related to parking, subdivisions, street connectivity, zoning, and more. Undertaking audits and
updates to these ordinances is a time consuming and technical effort. Communities with limited
staff capacity may struggle to make much-needed ordinance audits and updates following new
studies and planning documents, or to ensure consistency across separately updated sections of
code. This opportunity is intended to enhance local staff capacity in these areas.
Communities can receive assistance for the following:
• Identification of barriers in the existing code,
• Identification of opportunities to clarify and/or add to the existing code, and/or
• Recommendations to modernize and update the code to meet community goals.
Wasatch Front Regional Council staff will work with local staff, appointed officials, and/or elected
officials to understand the community’s ordinance needs and conduct the audit at no-cost to the
local communities. This program aims to provide timely assistance to jumpstart communities’
ordinance updates, rather than produce finalized, adoption-ready code language. As such, complete
code rewrites are beyond the scope of this program, but are a great fit for the Transportation and
Land Use Connection program.

wfrc.org/tlc

Eligible Project Examples:

Assistance is available to look at any of your
ordinances. Below are a couple of examples.

Waterwise Practices Recommendations

Sunnyville learned of the community’s worry about
the future of water and their desire for increasing
conservation efforts. Sunnyville’s current ordinances
do not reflect an understanding of the importance of
waterwise landscaping for water conservation, green
infrastructure for stormwater management, or green
infrastructure for temperature regulation and reduced
evaporation. An audit of Sunnyville’s landscaping
ordinances; curb and gutter standards; parking
strip cover requirements; and impermeable surface
provisions can help Sunnyville reduce water use while
beautifying the community.

Parking Standards Audit

Boom Town’s city manager Taylor noticed that,
because of changing development patterns, growing
work-from-home employment, and safer bike
facilities, more parking lots sit empty. She knows that
infill development with economic or cultural benefits,
such as a local hardware business or an art studio,
could replace underused parking lots. Taylor wants
assistance in auditing the current parking standards
so she can understand which areas may be overparked
and which underparked. She hopes that the audit can
also identify specific areas for conducting live parking
counts and surveys.

How to Apply

Apply for Ordinance Assistance online at wfrc.org/tlc. Applications are accepted and reviewed on
a rolling basis. Projects will be accepted based upon the project’s support of local goals and the
Wasatch Choice Vision, as well as WFRC staff capacity. Reach out to WFRC staff Byron Head
at bhead@wfrc.org or (801) 363-4250 ext. 1104 with any questions.

wfrc.org/tlc

