2020 Project Descriptions
These are the 2020 recipients of the Transportation and Land Use Connection, a program
provided in partnership with Salt Lake County, Utah Department of Transportation, and Utah
Transit Authority. For more information please visit wfrc.org/tlc.

SALT LAKE URBANIZED AREA
City of Bluffdale General Plan Update
The City of Bluffdale's current General Plan was adopted in 2014. Since then, the city has gained
approximately 12,000 new residents who have yet to participate in the comprehensive land use
planning of Bluffdale. The City of Bluffdale is looking to update its General Plan to
comprehensively address the modifications to the land use and transportation elements and to
enact a new moderate-income housing element. At this point in time it is vital for the city to be
able to examine its current land uses, transportation system, and infrastructure to ensure its ability
to serve the community currently and into the future. The City is interested in exploring areas in
which higher-intensity centers could be located and investigating transit supportive land uses,
including potential high-density transit-oriented developments.
Cottonwood Heights General Plan Update & Gateway District Form-based Code
The Cottonwood Heights General Plan was adopted shortly after the city's incorporation in 2005
and has received no comprehensive updates since that time, and is in critical need of a redraft.
Due to emerging land use, transportation, housing, recreation and sustainability best practices
not contemplated in the current document, and the subsequent completion and adoption of many
area master plans, a thorough and comprehensive General Plan update is vital to guiding the
next phase in the life of Cottonwood Heights. The creation of a form-based code for gateway
features will extend beyond site improvements. A form-based code will ensure that quality design
standards are incorporated into city infrastructure projects and private development projects.
Draper Town Center Station Area Plan
The primary objective of the Draper Station Area Plan (SAP) is to create a unified and cohesive
vision for the area surrounding the UTA Draper Town Center Station. This vision will be created
by: a thorough assessment of current regional and local plans, an analysis of the existing and
future conditions within the plan area, and community engagement. Salt Lake County, UTA,
WFRC, UDOT, the State of Utah, and the City have all made significant investments in the Draper
Town Center. In addition to the TRAX stop, there is a new Salt Lake County Library and Senior
Center, a City owned regional park, and City Hall. Along with these investments, there are areas

of undeveloped land, both publicly and privately held, adjacent to the Station; UTA owns several
acres at the Station that could be developed as part of a transit-oriented project with amenities
that support a live, work, and play lifestyle. The Draper SAP will take all of the considerations into
account to develop a set of strategic recommendations that will accompany the vision, outlining
and describing specific actions that should be taken by Draper City, as well as by other public and
private stakeholders, in order to facilitate implementation.
Herriman City Active Transportation Plan
The Herriman City Active Transportation Plan (ATP) will create a comprehensive plan for all active
modes of travel in the City of Herriman. This includes walking, running, cycling, riding transit, and
traveling by automobile. The Herriman ATP will examine existing and planned roadways,
community amenities, and developments in order to determine locations of active transportation
routes. The ATP will designate type and width of facilities, such as buffered bike lanes or striped
shared pathway. It is anticipated that the ATP will incorporate plans from Herriman City's Parks
Master Plan to connect areas of recreation by active transportation infrastructure, and coordinate
installing infrastructure that meets the needs of the community.
Active Transportation Plan for Kearns and Magna Metro Townships
Salt Lake County is currently completing a Transportation Master Plans (TMP) for Kearns and
Magna. A survey conducted as part of the TMP found that over 60% of residents had never used
biking as alternative mode of transportation. The Kearns and Magna Active Transportation Plan
(ATP) would like to build off the TMP and increase the percentage of people riding bikes and to
encourage a healthier community. Completing the Kearns and Magna ATP will allow the County
to obtain feedback from citizens of Kearns and Magna on what they would like to see in their
community so they can use biking and walking as an alternative to their cars. This project is a
partnership between both Kearns and Magna, and will seek to improve active transportation
feasibility within their community and to connect to regional and active transportation routes.
Millcreek and South Salt Lake 3300 South Transportation Corridor Study
The 3300 South corridor is a major east/west corridor across Salt Lake County. Along this corridor
are three major centers as well as numerous business. The existing corridor changes from a
robust seven lane section to a tight five lane section with 10 foot laces, back into a seven lane
section and has limited access to UTA bus service. This study is intended to designate
transportation planning concepts to provide more transportation choices, and better connect the
city’s centers. The study will also consider future land use changes along the corridor in
conjunction with transportation options.
Salt Lake City Ballpark Station Plan
Salt Lake City’s goal is to develop transportation and land use planning guidelines that support
the existing character of the neighborhood, integrate Smith’s Ballpark activities into a year-round
destination for residents and visitors, and improve transportation choices for the area. Salt Lake
City (RDA and Transportation Division), UTA, and the Bees Triple A team all have a vested
interest in improving the pedestrian/bicyclist/user experience in the vicinity of the Ballpark and
improving connections in the neighborhood to allow better access to the Ballpark and other area
and neighborhood destinations. Salt Lake City and UTA will be able to review the
recommendations from this study and, as appropriate/needed, try to identify funding sources for

any changes and improvements that are recommended. This project will seek to maximize the
investment in the 1300 South TRAX station, improving bicycle and pedestrian circulation to and
around the area, and the intensity and use of land use surrounding it.
Seven Greenways Visioning Plan
The Seven Greenways Visioning Plan is an effort to facilitate and guide long-term potential
improvements of the greenway corridors along the seven major waterways flowing out of the
Wasatch Range in Salt Lake County, including City Creek, Red Butte Creek, Emigration Creek,
Parleys Creek, Mill Creek, Big Cottonwood Creek, and Little Cottonwood Creek. The collaborative
process will include a Steering Committee with members from each municipality, a report of
existing conditions, engaging workshops and surveys, and will result in a Visioning Plan.
The Seven Greenways Visioning Plan will include several recommendations such as best
management practices, policy recommendations, and visioning to assist in implementation of its
goals. It will highlight opportunity areas within each of the proposed seven greenways and
potential for collaboration among partners, stakeholders, and the public. Furthermore, the Plan
will develop a toolbox of example policies to implement goals, design concepts,
recommendations, and opportunity areas. The Seven Canyons Trust will act as a champion and
resource to the Steering Committee and local communities, aiding them in their implementation
efforts as appropriate. The Visioning Plan can become part of city general plans and park plans
and eventually ordinances, capital Improvement plans and economic plans.
Taylorsville Active Communities Plan
The City of Taylorsville is at a critical crossroads in planning for the future of the City. The City is
currently undergoing several key studies that will shape future planning and redevelopment
strategies for the City. Those studies include the Taylorsville Commercial Centers Master Plan
(TLC-funded), and the Commercial Center Master Planning and Revitalization Study. Both studies
are looking at nodes and corridors in the City and exploring future land use transitions, economic
development opportunities, and transportation connections. Additionally, the City is a stakeholder
in the Mid-Valley Active Transportation Study (TLC-funded) which will develop an active
transportation regional backbone network for six cities. The City would like to expand the scope
of these three studies and build upon the recommendations to create a vibrant, economically
viable, and pedestrian-oriented community through the Active Communities Plan (ACP).
The ACP will build upon the regional active transportation plans and will concentrate on building
a Taylorsville-specific connectivity plan. This plan will be implementable, visionary, and to take
Taylorsville from being a "donut of inactivity" to a well-connected, pedestrian-oriented community.

OGDEN LAYTON URBANIZED AREA AND TOOELE
Clearfield City General Plan Update and Analysis
The update to the General Plan aims to analyze and consider changes to the economy, the nature
of business, the demands for housing, changes to State laws, and the desires of the community;
while providing a solid vision for the future of the community over the next 10-20 years that can
be used by elected and appointed officials to guide decisions for growth and redevelopment. The
scope of work includes an update to the language in the General Plan for the transportation

element, land use data, and moderate-income housing with current data and support as it relates
to housing within the City. The City is currently working on a regional active transportation element
which should be incorporated within the updated General Plan. A review of current land use codes
that may need to be updated to mesh with the new vision in the General Plan may also be
necessary for the update.
Farmington City Land Use Element
The Land Use element of the General Plan has not been updated since 2008. It does not take
into account the West Davis Corridor, the new Shepard Lane Interchange, or 950 north, and other
areas around Farmington Station. Farmington City has grown in scale and has some exciting
projects underway including a new business park (North Station Park), development of the US 89
Corridor, Lagoon Expansion, the city's new regional park and enhancements to downtown. These
land use changes will make it necessary to update the cities land use element and portions of the
city's transportation element.
Fruit Heights General Plan
The City's current General Plan lacks direction and vision. If given the opportunity, the City will
focus on a realistic general plan that addresses the challenges that Fruit Heights faces. The
general plan process will focus on affordable housing, active transportation, connectivity, and
economic development. Fruit Heights has some available acreage and opportunities for
redevelopment; the process will consider a variety of options for land use including mixed-use
and accommodation of affordable housing. Public input will be sought throughout the process and
will substantially influence the plan.
West Davis Corridor Market Analysis
Davis County, Farmington, Kaysville, Layton, Syracuse, and West Point will partner to consider
how best to leverage land use decisions in conjunction with the West Davis Corridor (WDC). This
project will address local community desires, roadway impacts, land use needs, and will utilize a
market-based approach to assist communities. The project seeks to answer the question of: what
should the WDC interchanges look like within those five identified cities. The current task is to
leverage information in such a way as to be prepared for both positive and negative impacts to
municipal markets through which the WDC highway passes.
Sunset City Form-Based Code
Sunset City wishes to adapt to market and development conditions in the region by creating a
market-driven and sustainable zoning ordinance. Sunset desires to be more flexible in
development, while ensuring appropriate design, development, and growth that matches our
community character. The final product and deliverable will be a complete and adopted, formbased zoning ordinance to replace the current Sunset zoning ordinance.
Hooper City General Plan
Note: This project will be produced by WFRC staff and will not be available for consultant
procurement.
The project should result in an updated General Plan that can be used to guide future decisionmaking and to develop goals, objectives, and actions to manage change, creating a path forward
to the city’s desired future. The iterative process will complete all elements of the city’s general

plan, looking and land use and transportation conditions and needs, evaluating and planning for
moderate income housing, and planning active transportation and open space. The plan will
identify short-, mid-, and long-term action items that can be carried out by staff and Planning
Commission.
Tooele County General Plan Update
Tooele County is experiencing an unprecedented period of intense residential growth. The growth
within the built environment that has occurred since the last General Plan was last updated has
put increasing pressure on the transportation network infrastructure, as well as water and sewer
infrastructure. The primary objectives of this General Plan update are to identify viable solutions
that can help our community grow in a sustainable manner. It is our objective to engage and
involve residents in the envisioning and scoping process for the general plan, so that these
residents can hopefully help us find creative solutions to balancing the growth with best planning
practices.
It is expected that this comprehensive update to our general plan will be able to identify the longterm positive impacts of growth within our community, and can help to guide development within
our community that promotes a healthy lifestyle and an improved quality of life for residents of all
ages and incomes.
Grantsville Main Street Master Plan
Note: This plan will be funded by TLC, and will be scoped along-side the Transportation Master
Plan project funded and managed by UDOT.
During the TLC-funded general plan process, one of the crucial areas of improvement identified
by stakeholders in surveys was Main Street. Respondents overwhelmingly said Main Street was
an unappealing entry to town, not cohesive, unsafe for pedestrians, didn't sufficiently address
Grantsville's commercial and housing needs, and lacked gathering places.
Grantsville has just been awarded a 2019 Technical Assistance Grant from UDOT for an updated
Transportation Master Plan. The creation of a Grantsville's Main Street Master Plan at the same
time as the transportation plan is tackled is complementary and more efficient. As the city's largest
and busiest transportation and economic corridor, Main Street’s improvement will ensure that the
city is a great place to live, work and play. This Grantsville Main Street Master Plan will review
retail demand, commercial potential, and residential uses. The plan will create concepts for
development and gathering spaces, as well as identify concrete steps to bolster the city’s main
commercial corridor.

