2023 Project Descriptions
These are the 2023 Transportation and Land Use Connection (TLC) Recipients. The TLC
program is administered by the Wasatch Front Regional Council and provided in partnership
with Salt Lake County, Utah Department of Transportation, and Utah Transit Authority. For more
information please visit wfrc.org/tlc. Projects with an “*” indicate that they are funded in part
through our partnership with Intermountain Healthcare.
SALT LAKE COUNTY URBANIZED AREA
Brighton Neighborhood Nodes and Design Plan
The Brighton Neighborhood Nodes Design Plan will review existing land use and transportation
patterns and recommend tools or designs to increase amenities, commercial vitality, walking
facilities, and sustainability in the Brighton Loop, Solitude Village, and Silver Fork areas. The
plan aims to create a new town hall or public event space in the Brighton Loop, identify land that
can be used to expand amenities to residents, promote growth in areas with existing
infrastructure where resources are available, and explore options to reuse non-developable
properties or preserve them for open space. The plan will identify policies, such as commercial
zoning updates and design standards, to implement these land use desires. Additionally, this
plan will leverage the recommendations of the Central Wasatch Commission’s Mobility Hub
Study in order to effectively connect land use and transportation, create multimodal
transportation opportunities, and allow a user to park once or step off the bus and access all
destinations in the Town.
Cottonwood Heights Town Center Master Plan; Canal Trail Feasibility Study*
Cottonwood Heights is pursuing a master plan for ten acres at 2330 E. Fort Union Boulevard.
The property will redevelop as part of a formal Community Reinvestment Area. The city seeks to
create a plan for a mixed-use town center with a variety of retail and commercial uses, housing
options (including affordable units), walkable design, active transportation connections and
infrastructure, public transit access, and public open space. The project will include a detailed
implementation plan. Upon completion, the city will be able to adapt a largely vacant,
deteriorating, auto-oriented strip mall into a vibrant public space for Cottonwood Heights
community members and visitors to enjoy.
Cottonwood Heights would also like to study the feasibility of implementing a trail along the East
Jordan Canal. This section of the Canal has been identified as a priority by the city and will
connect neighborhoods to the Union Park Commercial Center and into Midvale. This study will
examine opportunities and barriers to implementing a trail, as well as identify what infrastructure
is needed to encourage walking and biking along the trail through a pedestrian focus design,
along with safety and other amenities that will address barriers.

Draper River to Range Corridor - Draper City Connections
This effort will result in a plan for a high comfort and high safety trail connection from the Jordan
River through The Point development to the Wasatch Mountains. The study will identify
obstacles to implementing the plan concept and develop a general game plan to overcome
those obstacles. The city wants this process to help align stakeholders on where and how trails
designed within The Point development can connect to Draper’s other destinations. The city
also desires collaborative work with regional partners to understand and build on anticipated
transportation projects that relate to The Point and the Point of the Mountain Transit. Anticipated
deliverables include a plan map, conceptual cross sections, planning level cost estimates, and
an implementation game plan.
Holladay General Plan Update and Data Visualization
Holladay will update its general plan to cultivate future development and sustain community
prosperity through 2040. Along with a general plan document, the project will create two new,
invaluable tools – an interactive story map and dynamic visuals – that will make the plan easy to
use and aid the city in achieving desired outcomes. The updated plan will include and integrate
two new elements into the plan framework: sustainability and alternative energy, and diversity,
equity and inclusion. The plan will also provide a vision for land use, urban design, and
neighborhood preservation; the transportation network; economic stability and resilience;
moderate-income housing; parks, recreation, trails, and open space; public services and
facilities; natural resources; and, small area master plan integration.
Midvale Master Transportation Plan
Midvale City desires to evaluate its existing transportation network and identify improvements
needed now as well as those needed for future growth based on the current land uses as
identified in the city’s general plan. The project will gather data, analyze current and future
conditions, and propose a vision for Midvale’s transportation network. The project should
consider motorized and non-motorized corridors and make recommendations to ensure safe
interactions between motorized and non-motorized users. Additionally, project prioritization
criteria will be developed to aid the city in plan implementation and future capital improvement
planning.
Millcreek Master Trail and Sidewalk Implementation Plan
In order to fulfill the Millcreek Together General Plan vision to enhance and improve pedestrian
connectivity, this project will create a Sidewalk and Trails Master Plan. By developing a
meaningful sidewalk and trail system, the city can better accommodate existing and future
residents and provide safe connectivity to adjacent cities and regional trail systems. The plan
will prioritize areas of need, such as new sidewalks in neighborhoods with missing or
substandard sidewalk connections. It will also identify existing trails and future trails that connect
pedestrians to transit facilities, including bus shelters, park and ride locations, and future transit
connections. The project will include a master plan for street furniture, lighting, and other
pedestrian-oriented improvements at key intersections. Furthermore, this Sidewalk and Trails
Master Plan will coordinate with and build upon the facilities planned in the Mid-valley Active
Transportation Plan.

Salt Lake City North Temple Economic Revitalization Plan
This effort will provide a path forward that combines existing plans for the area, a needs
assessment driven by community engagement, and a proposed strategy that encompasses the
interests of people and businesses within the North Temple area. The North Temple corridor
currently faces challenges which this plan shall address, such as disjointed priorities and efforts
in the area, safety concerns, lacking economic opportunity for businesses and residents, and
the lack of a unified vision that links current and future projects to achieve a singular set of
goals. This plan should consider how opportunities will arise as housing density increases in
nearby neighborhoods and as large scale developments catalyze change.
South Jordan Shield’s Lane Solutions Development Study
Shield’s Lane is one of three major east to west routes in South Jordan City. The corridor has
three schools and intersects with six trails. The Transportation Master Plan indicates a need to
widen Shield’s Lane from three to five lanes in 2040, but this road expansion would severely
impact the corridor’s walkability and livability, and is not desired by the elected officials. This
study will analyze land use, trail connections, destinations, traffic data, and transit connections
to develop context sensitive, multimodal solutions that align with the desire of the community.
This study will produce an analysis on travel time impacts if the road is not widened to five
lanes, explore strategies for enhancing walking and biking along the corridor, and examine
accessibility to the FrontRunner station.
West Jordan Safe Street Study and Implementation Plan
This effort will study context-specific, long-term solutions to increase city-wide street safety and
promote traffic calming city-wide. To make implementable recommendations, the study will
utilize case studies and known best practices, weight pros and cons, and also factor in West
Jordan’s demographics, existing transportation conditions, existing land uses, and other local
attributes. This effort will also include one or more of the following resources: a parking study
component that evaluates where parking is a barrier to safety versus where it is helpful to
safety; a compilation of streetscape cross-sections available for adoption into roadway
standards; and/or, ordinance language that the city could adopt that relates to implementing the
study’s recommendations.

OGDEN-LAYTON URBANIZED AREA
Davis County Active Transportation Plan*
Davis County aims to develop a regional, high-quality, active transportation network that
supports Governor Cox’s statewide trail system initiative. To do so, Davis County will align and
build upon the existing active transportation plans that have been developed in fourteen of
Davis County’s fifteen municipalities. This effort will create seamless connectivity from one plan
to the other, ensuring incluse, widespread, easy, comfortable, and efficient walking and bicycling
routes. The plan will also include all active transportation needs for the unincorporated county
and emphasize east-west connections that tie into the county’s north-south trail system. The
plan will propose realistic recommendations that build a system where users experience the
natural environment in a manner that encourages people to make active transportation an
integral part of their daily lives.

Layton Long Range Economic Development Plan
As the economic leader in Davis County and second largest economic driver in Utah north of
Salt Lake City, Layton needs a long term economic development plan with a detailed
understanding of the current economic environment for retail, office and industrial uses based
on actual market demand and market realities. This effort will produce a data and vision-based,
graphically rich, long range economic development plan. The plan will analyze the positive,
negative, and neutral effects of several new or recent infrastructure projects and economic
drivers in north Davis County and the southern portion of Weber County. It will include tangible
examples of real business development using best practices, case studies, graphics, and data.
The end product will help elected and appointed officials visualize possibilities and implement
proposed and preferred spatial and economic outcomes.
Perry Highway 89 Master Plan
The intent of this effort is to develop a master plan for the Highway 89 corridor through Perry
City. The project would meet the standards for a UDOT Corridor Agreement while also
broadening the scope to include additional planning aspects. The master plan will address
safety, pedestrian and bicycle improvements, appropriate design for future land uses,
aesthetics, design concepts, and implementation strategies, including responsible parties. This
project would include close coordination with UDOT, UTA, the public, and other stakeholder
groups, in order to find mutually beneficial planning solutions.

RURAL PLANNING ORGANIZATION (RPO) AREA: MORGAN COUNTY
Morgan City Downtown Plan and Design Standards; Parks and Trails Plan*
This project will be supported in part by WFRC staff

Morgan seeks to promote quality buildings, smart growth principles, balanced landscapes,
recreation amenities, and walkable development within its three square mile boundaries. To
achieve these objectives, Morgan wants to develop an integrated master plan consisting of a
downtown small area plan, character design standards, and a city-wide parks and trails plan.
The proposed planning effort will focus on the city's main transportation corridors, areas and
corridors for outdoor recreation, and strategies for smart growth land uses. The Downtown
Master Plan will address the needs of businesses, landowners, tourism, and residents for the
downtown and supporting adjacent neighborhoods, including an adjacent master planned
development. The Character Design Standards for the downtown and master planned
development will promote walkability and reflect community identity. The parks and trails plan
will address pedestrian and cyclist connectivity, safety, and opportunities as well as identify
needs and opportunities related to parks and open space facilities.

