UTAH
STREET
CONNECTIVITY
GUIDE

ARTERIAL

COLLECTOR

/

/

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

BRIDGE or
UNDERPASS

ARTERIAL
FREEWAY/
INTERCHANGE

STUB STREET FOR
FUTURE CONNECTION

/

LOCAL

/

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

COLLECTOR

/

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

ARTERIAL

/

LOCAL

/

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

COLLECTOR

/

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

INTERNAL

/

TRANSIT
AGRICULTURAL/
STOP
NATURAL OPEN SPACE

/

TRANSIT
STOP

LOCAL

/

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

/

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING

NEW
DEVELOPMENT

300’

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING

OPEN SPACE

NEW
DEVELOPMENT

INTERNAL

TRANSIT
AGRICULTURAL/
STOP
NATURAL OPEN SPACE

PEDESTRIAN

RAIL TRACKS

300’

BUILDING
300’

A RESOURCE FOR WHAT STREET CONNECTIVITY IS, WHY IT IS IMPORTANT - AND HOW TO INCREASE IT IN OUR COMMUNITIES

MARCH 2017

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The Utah Street Connectivity Guide was produced by a team of agencies, local jurisdictions, and inter-disciplinary consultants. Thank you to all who participated in the
process of creating this study and document, including our Working Group, Consultant Team, and those who took our surveys and attended our open houses.

Working Group

Consultant Team

Julie Bjornstad, Wasatch Front Regional Council (Project Manager)

Parametrix

John Close, Utah Transit Authority (Project Manager)

Tim Sullivan, Project Manager

Jordan Backman, Utah Department of Transportation

Michael Baker, Planner

Blaine Gehring, Tooele County

Richard Decker, Planner

Tim Hereth, Mountainland Association of Governments

Kai Tohinaka, Planner

Ted Knowlton, Wasatch Front Regional Council

University of Utah Traffic Lab

Peter Matson, Layton City
Angelo Papastamos, Utah Department of Transportation

Dr. Milan Zlatkovic, Research Assistant Professor University of Utah/University of
Wyoming

Brandon Rypien, Layton City

Kiavash Fayyaz Shahandashti, Graduate Research Assistant, University of Utah

Mike E. West, Lehi City

GSBS
Christine Richman, Economic Planner
Dejan Eskic, Economic Planner

Alta Planning + Design
Tom Millar, Active Transportation Planner

Special advisor
Dr. Wesley Marshall, University of Colorado Denver

Utah Street Connectivity Guide

CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION....................................................................................1
PART 1 The Case for Connectivity

1.1 Street connectivity in Utah..........................................................................................3
1.2 WHAT is connectivity?..................................................................................................6
1.3 WHY is connectivity important?...................................................................................8

PART 2 Tools for Connectivity

2.1 Measuring street connectivity..................................................................................18
2.2 Strategies, best practices, and tools to improve connectivity....................................24

PART 3 Design Guide and Case Studies

3.1 Contexts for street connectivity.................................................................................34
3.2 Introduction to the case studies................................................................................38
3.3 Design guide and case study results..........................................................................42
3.4 Connecting your community in 3 steps.....................................................................92

CONCLUSION............................................................................................94
Utah Street Connectivity Guide

APPENDIX

Literature review
Case study benefit modeling
Public outreach
Additional case study maps

Utah Street Connectivity Guide

INTRODUCTION

The Utah Street Connectivity Guide is a comprehensive resource for improving
street connectivity in communities throughout Utah.
This guide:
Identifies what street connectivity is. While most people have a general sense that
“street connectivity” means the way our streets are connected to one another, this
guide presents a clear yet comprehensive definition useful to practitioners and the
communities they serve. The guide identifies a set of key aspects of street networks
that constitute “connectivity.” These aspects can be measured both in existing
street networks and in proposed street connections.
Makes the case for street connectivity. A high level of street connectivity creates
several benefits. In addition to creating a more efficient transportation system,
street connectivity can improve a wide range of community aspects reaching into
safety, health, economic vitality, the environment, and quality of life. A series
of community case studies undertaken as part of this project provides further
demonstration of the quantified benefits of connectivity.
Provides ways to improve street connectivity. With the benefits of street
connectivity in mind, this guide provides ways to realize those benefits in a range
of communities. The guide identifies how different types of Utah communities
– from urban to suburban to rural, and from neighborhoods to special districts –
can improve their connectivity in ways appropriate to their context and character.
Finally, the project’s case studies provide examples of how strategies can be
implemented on the ground.

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 1

This guide is the result of a study undertaken by the Mountainland Association of
Governments (MAG), Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT), Utah Transit
Authority (UTA), and Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC). The study involved
several subcomponents intended to explore street connectivity both academically
and on the ground in Utah communities. These included:
•

•

•

•

•

•

A literature review of the available studies from both academia
and planning practitioners that explore the metrics, benefits, and
strategies for street connectivity. See Appendix A for the complete
Literature Review.
A set of surveys that queried both local Utah jurisdiction and
agency staff and Utah communities about issues related to
street connectivity. See Appendix B for the complete surveys and
summary of the results.
Case studies in three Utah communities – Lehi, Layton, and Tooele
County. These case studies involved the evaluation of street
connectivity in areas within each community, recommendations
for strategies to improve the connectivity in these areas, and the
modeling of various benefits based on the improvements. See
Appendix C for the full case studies.
The development of street connectivity context types. This
study took a context-sensitive approach to street connectivity and
developed custom guidance for different scales – from the region to
the neighborhood – and different land use types – whether urban
or rural, residential or mixed use. These typologies are the basis for
the guidance in Section 2.
A series of three public open houses attended by approximately 35
local jurisdiction and agency staff, elected officials, and members of
the public.
A Working Group comprised of representatives of project partner
agencies such as MAG, UDOT, UTA, WFRC, and the three case
study communities met regularly and provided guidance for the
development of the above elements of the study.

2 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

With this document, you will be able to:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Understand the aspects of street connectivity – see Section 1.2.
Understand why street connectivity matters to our Utah
communities – see Sections 1.1 and 1.2.
See the quantified benefits of improving street connectivity – see
Sections 1.3 and Part 3.
Have the tools to make the case to your colleagues and
constituents – see Sections 1.1, 1.3, and 3.3.
Understand how street connectivity applies to your specific
community – see Part 3.
Get tips for talking about street connectivity with your colleagues
and constituents – see Section 2.2 (page 26).
Select appropriate strategies to improve the street connectivity in
your community – see Sections 2.2, 3.1, 3.3, and 3.4.

PART 1

1.1 Street Connectivity in Utah

Connection is an essential aspect of our communities. Public streets provide the
function of connecting us to our jobs, neighbors, friends, and the places we visit.
Streets are built to link us to one another and our community destinations.
But in recent decades, as cities and towns have grown, new street networks
throughout Utah and the United States began to lose this connection. Living on
a cul-de-sac, and the privacy and perceived safety that comes with it, became an
attractive lifestyle. We realized that fewer street intersections allowed us to drive
faster on bigger streets. Hierarchies of streets emphasized limited connections
between neighborhoods and the collector and arterial streets that linked them to
the surrounding region.
Because of these desires for mobility, safety, and security, our networks became so
disconnected that a house that sits next to a school might require a mile trip along
a looping street system to access it.

The Case for
Connectivity

Credit: Rick Willoughby

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 3

Yet a growing body of research shows the importance of reconnecting
our communities with improved street networks. High levels of street
connectivity actually do a better job of achieving many of the goals that many
of our communities have in common – economic vitality, the effectiveness of
infrastructure, health, and choice of how we travel around.
Street connectivity disperses traffic throughout the network, leading to a
significant reduction in travel times, delays, and having to drive on larger streets.
Unlike widening streets, the increase in street connectivity creates additional
community benefits, such as increasing use of transit, bicycling, and especially
walking. This increased ability to walk, bike and take transit leads to documented
lifts in outcomes as diverse as property values, obesity prevention, and ecosystem
conservation.
These benefits reach even to the aspects of street network that led city builders
to disconnect streets in the first place – mobility, safety, and security. For example,
the number one issue with respect to their neighborhoods for Utahns surveyed for
this study is safety from traffic – and higher street connectivity has been shown to
create more traffic safety.

We see a range of opportunities to increase street connectivity in Utah
communities while also achieving the community goals important to different cities
and neighborhoods. For example, good access to destinations is important to many
Utahns. But increasingly, even neighborhood schools are inaccessible for Utahns.
Yet the smallest of investments in street connectivity can yield major returns of
accessibility. One link in a disconnected street network, for example, can put a
school within walking distance for twice as many people.
Street connectivity is an idea useful to all Utah communities – and one that is
flexible in how it is applied. This guide shows how all types of Utah communities
can improve street connectivity in a way that is consistent with its core values.
In order to provide a comprehensive guide to street connectivity, this guide sets
out to answer three main questions related to street connectivity: What is street
connectivity? Why does it matter? And, finally, how do we improve it in our
communities?
Fund the project

CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES

CONNECTIVITY CREATES

CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES

CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES

CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES

MOBILITY

TRANSPORTATION
CHOICE

EMERGENCY SERVICE

SAFETY

THE ECONOMY

=
Within this guide’s case studies

1%

each
increase of connectivity
yields the same travel time benefits as

1 lane mile of roadway

High intersection density
is the best predictor for
use of active transportation

Adding 300 feet of roadway
between two subdivisions in
Charlotte, N.C.,
increased the fire station
service area by 17 percent

The highest risks of
fatal or severe crashes
tend to occur in areas with

low intersection
densities

Compact, connected,
walkable neighborhoods
can command a price premium
of 40 to 100 percent
compared to nearby less-connected
neighborhoods

Sources: Utah Street Connectivity Case Study research; Ewing, R., and R. Cervero. Travel and the Built Environment: A Meta-Analysis. In Journal of the American Planning Association, Vol. 76,
Issue 3, June 2010; Lehigh Valley Planning Commission. Street Connectivity Guidance Document, 2011; Marshall, W. E. and N. W. Garrick. Street Network Types and Road Safety: A Study of 24
California Cities. In Urban Design International, August, 2009.

4 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

UTAH STREET CONNECTIVITY SURVEYS
A set of surveys asked both Utah local jurisdiction and agency staff and Utah communities about opinions on street connectivity and existing connectivity-related policy but also opinions about
broader topics such as neighborhoods and transportation. The community survey received 1,300 responses while the staff survey received nearly 100. Some key findings are summarized below.

Safety is the aspect of transportation
most important to people.
Safety is often equated
with disconnected streets
(Our study has shown this
not to be the case).

For driving, walking
and bicycling,

56%

36%

42%

of survey respondents say
safety is the most
important issue - the top
response for each mode.

Yet the staff survey
agreed that this
perception is the No. 1
barrier to increasing
connectivity.

People want to use alternative transportation.
Over half of respondents
agreed with the statement that
“I would be willing to ride transit
more if bus stops or train stations
were more easily accessible by
walking or biking from my home.”

30%

of community survey respondents identified
“good options for a wide range of transportation
modes” as one of the most important
neighborhood issues.

Access to destinations is very important to
people.
/

/

One of the top
barriers for walking is
destinations are too
far and “it takes too
long to get where I
want to go.”

Both neighborhood and regional
destinations are important to access.

Cul-de-sac connection is a flash point for the
street connectivity discussion.

?

Survey
respondents
were split
on generally
connecting
cul-de-sacs
through to
other
streets, for
all traffic.

However

73%

supported
connecting
cul-de-sacs
for
pedestrians
and cyclists
only – only
11 % against

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 5

1.2 WHAT is connectivity?

Street connectivity is a simple idea – providing a network of public streets whose
intersections allow for easy movement around it. However, this simple idea is more
difficult to define.
Look at the two images below. The images show two street networks, and they are
clearly different. But why are they different?

These two networks differ in many ways. The network on the left has fewer fourway intersections than the one on the right, and less of a grid pattern. It has larger,
and less-defined blocks. It has fewer places to access a major street. It requires a
longer path to get from Point A to Point B.
These differences all represent key aspects of street connectivity. After
conversations with the study Working Group and extensive review of the academic
literature and existing policy, the project team developed a working definition of
street connectivity that has four aspects, two of them more general and “basic”
and two others more specific and “secondary.”

BASIC ASPECTS OF STREET CONNECTIVITY
The basic aspects describe the general qualities of connectivity of a network. These
are good for understanding a network’s high-level connectivity.
The relative level of connection. The most basic aspect of street
connectivity is the degree to which streets are connected to
one another at each intersection. One way to consider this idea
is to look at how much “work” each intersection is doing. A sixpoint intersection is doing a lot of work, transferring traffic and
other users among six different streets. But a cul-de-sac, with
only one street coming off it, is doing the minimum amount of
work. Essentially, the relative level of connection tells us how
much work each intersection is doing – the more amount of work, the higher the
level of connectivity. In the example below, the Downtown Salt Lake City grid has a
higher level of connection because of its consistently 4-way intersections, while the
eastern Salt Lake City example has mostly 3-way intersections and cul-de-sacs.
Downtown
Salt Lake
street grid
800’

Network density. However, the level of connection does not
tell the whole story. Like in its name, “level of connection”
is relative. Take the very connected network in downtown
Salt Lake City and compare it to Salt Lake City’s Avenues
neighborhood. Because both are nearly perfect grids, they have
the same relative level of connection. However, the Avenues
network is noticeably different, and more connected. This is
due to the second basic aspect of street connectivity – network
density. With its approximately 330-foot blocks, the Avenues has much higher
network density than downtown Salt Lake City, with its 660-foot blocks. The Avenues
has more links and more nodes. So, it is also important to consider this “absolute”
aspect of the network to provide this other critical dimension of connectivity.
Downtown
Salt Lake
street grid
800’

6 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

East Salt
Lake
street grid
800’

Avenues
neighborhood
street grid
800’

SECONDARY ASPECTS OF STREET CONNECTIVITY
The first two aspects of street connectivity give us a good understanding of the general connectivity of a street network. But a few things are missing. These two
secondary aspects describe more real-world aspects of connectivity that one experiences on the ground in trips through the network.
Ability to connect to specific destinations. This aspect
addresses the problem that all destinations along a network
are not equally popular – and, therefore, are not equally
valuable for a network to connect to. An elementary school
receives more trips along a network than a single family home,
for example. So it is important to understand how well a given
network connects the community to these specific points along
it. Often improvements to accessing a specific destination such
as a school are the most effective ways a built-out community
can improve its connectivity.

It is especially important that street networks
connect to key community destinations like schools.

/

Quality of the network for all users – walkability. The other
secondary aspect of street connectivity considers that, on the
ground, streets are much different than lines on a map. Each
street offers a different environment for all the transportation
modes – private vehicles, public transit, freight, bicycling, and
walking. Among these, this guide argues that it is particularly
important to pay attention to the conditions for walking.
Pedestrians are the most vulnerable users of the network,
and everyone is a pedestrian at some point during their trip.
The pedestrian environment is critical for transit access.
Consequently, this guide identifies walkability as a key aspect
of street connectivity. Walkability here means how well a street
provides infrastructure for walking – both along it and at street
crossings.

Walkable streets, with sidewalks or paths, buffers,
amenities and safe roadway crossings, are an
important aspect of street connectivity.

Each of these aspects is a vital aspect of connectivity, so that a truly connected street network that achieves the community goals outlined below should have all four of
these. In this guide, each aspect is represented by a metric. The metrics are found in Section 2.1 of this document.

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 7

1.3 WHY is connectivity important?

Direct and indirect benefits of street connectivity: an example

A highly-connected street network – one where a dense set of intersections each
connect to several streets, that connects a community to its key destinations, and is
walkable – provides a multitude of benefits for Utah communities.
This guide has quantified these benefits. Through a review of studies and literature
available, as well as modeling of potential benefits in case studies of three Utah
communities, we show how an increase in connectivity causes the achievement of
benefits associated with commonly-found community goals. These include mobility,
transportation choice, health and safety, infrastructure and growth management,
economic vitality, and environmental conservation. The survey undertaken as part
of this project confirms the importance of these objectives.

A well-connected
street network
leads to...

Below, we show how each one of these goals is benefited by improved street
connectivity. The benefits come in four types:
Direct benefits describe a benefit that is conferred directly by street connectivity.
For example, a dense, connected, walkable network directly increases the likelihood
someone will choose a non-automobile transportation mode.
Indirect benefits describe a benefit that is conferred by a direct benefit. For
example, a dense, connected, walkable network directly increases the likelihood
someone will choose a non-automobile transportation mode, which in turn
decreases the likelihood that person will be obese.
Inherent or implied benefits describe a benefit that is inherent in the nature of
connectivity. For example, a more connected regional street network inherently
helps its communities become more compatible with one another. However, these
community goals have not been explored in the literature to a large extent.

More walking and
bicycling, which in
turn leads to...

Finally, connectivity misconceptions describe perceived dis-benefits of street
connectivity that have been shown to be either untrue or less significant than
perceived. For example, higher street connectivity actually increases a community’s
security and lowers crime.
Each of these benefits is influenced by one or more of the aspects of street
connectivity described above. For some benefits, the deciding factor is relative
level of connection; for others it may be network density. For many others, it is a
combination of the four aspects.
Except where noted as part of this project’s case studies, sources for the
information contained in the following discussion are found in the literature
review in the Appendix, which also contains more information about each benefit.

8 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Additional benefits
such as a cleaner
environment,
healthier
communities, and
economic vitality.

SUMMARY OF DIRECT BENEFITS

Regional and community mobility

Good street connectivity redistributes traffic among different routes in a network,
providing more options and better accessibility for local traffic. This in turn frees
some of the capacity on the adjacent arterial roads, which are mostly used by the
non-local traffic.
•

Modeling the effects of proposed street connectivity improvements in
the cities of Lehi, Layton, and Tooele Valley led to some key conclusions
including:
o

In urban and suburban community-scale networks, a significant
reduction in network travel times and delays was observed.

o

A set of street improvements improving connectivity in three
communities by an average of 32 percent would lead to an average
of a 17 percent decrease in delay.

o

Vehicle miles traveled (VMTs) on larger streets was, in most cases,
significantly reduced, attributed to a more balanced distribution of
traffic flows within the network.

•

The literature confirms many of the conclusions of the case study modeling
outlined above, and also indicates the following additional findings:
o

In general, the average reduction in VMTs is about 10 percent in
networks with good street connectivity compared to those with
poor connectivity. A greater reduction in VMTs is observed in less
dense automobile-oriented urban areas.

o

In most cases, greater connectivity reduces traffic volumes on
arterial streets, therefore improving mobility. The main factors
that influence this are reduced trip distances, reduced number
of local trips using arterials, multiple alternative routes, shifts
from personal vehicles to other modes, and redistribution of
traffic throughout the network which increases the network-wide
capacity.

o

Returns of mobility are highest when a network goes from low to
moderate network density, from about 10 to 16 connections per
mile. These returns diminish for motorists when a network goes
from this moderate level to a higher level of connectivity.

In general, 1 percent of increase in a city’s street
connectivity equals the network capacity of adding one
lane-mile to an arterial street.

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 9

Transportation choice
Higher street connectivity provides travelers with greater choice of travel modes.
In a well-connected network, active transportation modes and transit become
more viable choices. This means that these types of networks are less automobiledependent.
•

Improved connectivity leads to better mobility and access for cyclists and
pedestrians.

•

Pedestrian and bicyclist benefits experience increasing returns from
medium to high connectivity.

•

Good street connectivity increases the proportion of trips made by
walking by between 25 and 900 percent.

•

Short blocks and grid-like network structure have been found to be
influential characteristics for higher use of active transportation.

•

Connectivity improves the efficiency of bus transit by providing more
direct routes and providing a good collector street network that creates
more options for routing bus transit closer to neighborhoods.

•

A meta-study of 62 studies found that a high intersection density is the
best predictor for use of non-motorized transportation modes.

•

The same study also found that use of transit was most closely related to
a set of factors influenced by street connectivity, including destination
accessibility and the design of networks to maximize street connectivity
and intersection density.

•

This study’s case study modeling projected that a set of street
improvements improving connectivity by approximately 30 percent in two
suburban communities could lead to a bicycling mode share increase of 4
to 20 times and walking mode share by 4 to 6 times.

Credit: vxla

High intersection density is a predictor for high
use of non-motorized transportation modes.

10 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Safety

Infrastructure and growth management

In recent years, many studies have focused on how built environment factors (such
as street connectivity and community) affect physical activity and health.

Higher street connectivity improves the investment in municipal infrastructure,
such as utilities, and services, such as fire and emergency services.

•

Street network densities are correlated with roadway safety outcomes. The
highest risks of fatal or severe crashes tend to occur in areas with low
intersection densities.

•

More connected, multi-modal street design can significantly reduce traffic
injury and fatality rates. A study of 24 California cities showed that cities
with better bicycle networks had on average between 10 and 17 times
lower vehicle occupant crash fatality rates and between 3.8 and 4.5 times
lower vehicle occupant crash severe injury rates.

•

A local, well-connected network system encourages slower and more
cautious driving, since drivers encounter various travel modes and more
intersections.

•

A 2008 study of municipal services conducted by Charlotte, N.C., found that
the citywide average response time in subdivisions constructed since 2001
– when minimum street connectivity standards were enacted in the city –
dropped thirty seconds.

•

The 2008 Charlotte study found that building 300 feet of street between
two subdivisions provided a 17 percent increase in service area for a fire
station.

•

The study also found that the typical coverage area of a snowplow
operator doubles in areas without prevalent cul-de-sac streets.

•

The Raleigh, N.C., Transportation and Planning Department studied
fire and emergency management system efficiencies in three different
neighborhood types and found that in all cases, the analysis showed
far greater service efficiencies for neighborhoods with greater street
connectivity.

•

The Reason Foundation found that “increasing connectivity of the
street network will help improve the efficiency of the transportation
network, allowing limited federal funds to be prioritized for pressing
transportation needs with less local traffic on overburdened roadways,
reduced wear and tear may prolong the life of many critical infrastructure
links. The costs associated with maintaining roadways have grown
considerably over the last few years and measures to extend their lifespan
may reduce the burden of public expenditure.”

The highest risks of fatal or severe crashes tend to occur in
areas with low intersection densities.

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 11

SUMMARY OF INDIRECT BENEFITS

Health

In addition to direct benefits, street connectivity has been shown to offer indirect
benefits related to health, largely stemming from the health effects of increased
physical activity.
•

Connectivity is one of a few key ingredients of walkable neighborhoods
that produce positive body mass index (BMI) outcomes. In one study, for
example, high-walkability residential neighborhoods with higher residential
density, land use mix, and street connectivity reported 70 minutes more
physical activity within a week than other neighborhoods. Other studies
have found increasing levels of walkability decrease the risk of excess
weight.

•

Connectivity limits time spent in the car. Street connectivity impacts
walking time and minutes spent in car, which consequently impacts BMI
and population health.

•

The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that regular use of
bicycles (for about three hours per week) can reduce the mortality risk by
about 28 percent.

•

Similarly, consistent walking for about 30 minutes per day can reduce
mortality risk by about 22 percent.

•

Physical activity also reduces occurrences of cardiovascular diseases, Type
2 Diabetes, and some cancers. These reductions are between 10 percent
and 30 percent, according to the WHO reports.

•

Our case study modeling projected that a set of street improvements
improving connectivity by approximately 30 percent in three communities
would on average lead to a doubling of physical activity and a quadrupling
of long-term health care cost savings.

In one study, walkable, connected neighborhoods
reported 70 minutes more physical activity per
week than other neighborhoods.

12 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Economic vitality

•

Improvements in walkable street networks can also have an impact on
retail rents. A study of the Washington, DC, area 4 found that office
and retail spaces in areas with good walkability rented for $8.88/sq. ft.
and $6.92/sq. ft. more per year, respectively, compared to places with fair
walkability, holding household income levels constant. Additionally, relative
to places with fair walkability, places with good walkability scores, on
average, bring in $301.76 more per month in residential rents and $81.54/
sq. ft. more in for-sale residential property values. Another study showed
that a 10 percent increase in walkability showed a 1 to 9 percent growth in
property value.

•

Because street connectivity has been shown to influence mode choice of
transit, the economic benefits of public transit are an indirect benefit of
street connectivity. These include creating jobs, stimulating development,
boosting business revenue, increasing local and state revenues, saving
employers money, decreasing pollution, and conserving energy. For
example, in Bexar County, Texas, 5 a study estimated that the County
loses approximately $307,000 in regional income and 8.4 jobs for every
million dollars of expenditures switched to auto. The same million spent
on bus operations will generate nearly $1.2 million in regional income and
62.2 jobs.

•

There are also benefits to hotels as a result of improved transit
connectivity. From 2006 to 2013, communities with direct access to airport
terminals experienced a 10.9 percent increase in average daily rates and
revenue per available room.

•

Worker productivity has been associated with bicycling. Those who bike
regularly saw a 32 percent decrease in sick days taken and a 55 percent
decrease in healthcare costs, all while seeing a 55 percent increase in
productivity.

Increasing street connectivity has been found to have an impact on a community’s
economic vitality. Many of the benefits are measurable in the economy or in
the fiscal well-being of households and governments. Some of the benefits are
intangible such as increased personal time to spend with family and friends,
improved overall health and well-being, and improved area air quality.
•

•

Compact, walkable neighborhood developments – in which connectivity
is a key ingredient – can command a price premium. This premium has
found to be as much as 40 to 100 percent compared to houses in nearby
single-use subdivisions. The homes at Kentlands, Maryland, 1 sell at a 25
percent premium over comparable large-lot developments in the same
zip code. A 2003 study showed a $24,255 premium for Portland-area
homes in New Urbanist areas compared to those in conventional suburban
neighborhoods.
Street connectivity also has a direct positive effect on bicycling and bicycle
networks can also have a positive impact on home values. The median
home values in Minneapolis-St. Paul 2 increased by $510 for every quarter
of mile nearer to an off-street bicycle trail, while homes within half-mile
of Indiana’s Monon Trail 3 had an average of 11 percent increase in sale
price when compared to similar homes further away. Additionally, regional
economies can benefit as well. A case study of North Carolina’s Outer Banks
concluded that the one-time investment into the bicycle network resulted
in an annual economic impact that is nine times greater, supporting more
than 1,400 annual jobs.

2
3

1

4

The price premium for a walkable, connected
neighborhood has been found to be as much as 40
to 100 percent.

5

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 13

•

Motorized transportation benefits resulting from increased street
connectivity lead to a variety of community and regional scale economic
benefits. Models have found that increased street connectivity produces:
o

Lower materials costs: The reduction of travel time of trips on a
regional level also results in lower materials costs because goods
can reach their destinations quicker and in a shorter distance saving
both wages and fuel.

o

Increased sales: For a local or neighborhood retailer, connectivity
results in improved access to an area’s customer base, generally
resulting in higher sales per square foot.

o

Lower household costs: For local residential property owners,
connectivity results in lower household transportation costs and
increased personal time. Measures on the local level include job
growth in all sectors including service and retail, as well as local tax
benefits such as sales and property taxes. This leads to increase in
job density which translates in to higher job accessibility lowering
transportation costs for household.

•

Our case study modeling projected that a set of street improvements
improving connectivity in three communities by an average of 32 percent
would lead to small but significant increases in sales in different types
of retail establishments. These included a 0.9 percent increase in
supermarkets and grocery stores, a 0.7 percent increase in warehouse
clubs and supercenters, and a 0.5 increase in limited service restaurants.

Environment
Street connectivity has major impacts on the environment. Shifts towards transit
and active transportation modes in a connected network reduce VMTs, delays, and
usage of automobiles which reduces air pollution, noise, and energy consumption.
•

This study’s case study modeling projected that a set of street
improvements improving connectivity by approximately 30 percent in two
suburban communities would on average lead to a 500 percent reduction
in carbon dioxide emissions due to increased walking and bicycling trips.

Improving connectivity in two Utah suburban communities by
30 percent showed a likely 500 percent reduction in carbon
dioxide emissions due to increased walking and bicycling.

Credit: Dean Derhak

14 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

SUMMARY OF INHERENT OR IMPLIED BENEFITS

Interlocal and regional compatibility

Connectivity inherently creates compatibility. Past research efforts have used
the term “internal connectivity” and “external connectivity” for measuring the
connectivity of specific region within itself, and “inter-local connectivity” of that
region. Studies on inter-local connectivity are rare, but measures can be developed
based on regional connections to arterials and other neighborhoods. Areas of
interest are connections between state and local jurisdictions for issues such as
transit access and freight.

Community access
Connectivity inherently improves access. At a regional or community-wide scale,
connectivity improvements can reduce bottlenecks and reduce distances that
residents need to travel to jobs. At a neighborhood scale, where connectivity
improvements can bring a school, park, or shopping area within walking or bicycling
distance to more people. Access, in the context of street networks, also means
interactions among people within a neighborhood.
•

Studies have recognized good street connectivity as the major prerequisite
for accessibility and livability.

•

Streets shape community interaction and community life. Narrow
streets with low traffic are friendlier for pedestrians, increasing interaction
among people. Narrow streets also do not represent a barrier for the two
communities on the opposite sides of the street.

•

Natural features such as rivers and man-made features, like highways
and freeways, often serve as or create barriers to direct local travel,
particularly for bicycle and pedestrian travel. This is a so-called “barrier
effect,” which reduces accessibility for active transportation modes and
forces a shift to motorized travel.

Even making one small connection can drastically improve the
accessibility of destinations. While the diagram on the left shows the
existing area accessible within walking distance to a neighborhood
school (star marker), the diagram on the right shows the area
accessible within the same distance if one strategic connection is
made (black dashed arrow).

For every degree street
connectivity improves,
Access to destinations improves
two degrees.

These inherent and implied benefits could benefit from increased study with regard
to their relationship to street connectivity.

For example - a neighborhood street network whose connectivity
improves by 25 percent on average makes its community
destinations accessible to 50 percent more of the neighborhood.

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 15

CONNECTIVITY MISCONCEPTIONS

•

The perception is often that providing increased connections costs money, whether
implemented by cities or developers.

While increased traffic on residential streets has been observed in some
studies, there are strategies that are implemented in the field to keep the
traffic increase at a tolerant level.

•

It is also important to provide good arterial and collector streets on the
network borderlines that will provide more capacity and higher speeds for
non-residential traffic, therefore minimizing the possibility that this traffic
will use residential streets.

Cost

•

When it comes to utilities and their maintenance, it was observed that better
connectivity actually can decrease these costs, since utility connections are
improved, and, therefore, easier to access and maintain.

•

There are strategies that communities can implement to avoid increase in
costs, such as narrower street standards, limiting maximum block length,
landscaping, and different treatments of cul-de-sacs.

•

Developers may also argue that improved street connectivity decreases
the amount of salable land they will have for development, since potential
building lots may be used for transportation connections. However,
incorporating appropriate walkability, traffic control, and security features
into connected streets, as well as the opportunity to have more diverse
contents, can offset the potential decrease in property values.

•

Crime and personal security
People often perceive that connected street networks invite crime and decrease
personal security. Personal security is extremely important to Utahns – two-thirds
of this project’s survey respondents identified safety from crime as one of the most
important three aspects of their neighborhood. The desire to remain safe from
crime was also a main reason survey takers did not want to connect cul-de-sacs as
through-streets.
•

The increase in crime rates in relation to street connectivity has not been
quantified in practice. A study performed in Western Australia did not
find that better street connectivity alone is not related to the increase in
crime rate, although it correlated more walking and activity with increase
in crime. Rather, the study found that the presence in local destinations is
related to the increase in crime rate. Another London study found that the
risk of crime is less in well-connected network with more activity, following
the “safety in numbers” principle.

•

That study also found that the high-tax properties on cul-de-sacs are more
vulnerable to crime in small cul-de-sacs, and that dwellings on cul-de-sacs
have twice as many burglaries as dwellings on connected streets.

In addition, the economic benefits of street connectivity because of
walkability, bikeability, and transit-friendliness can also easily offset any
short-term construction costs.

Residential traffic and safety concerns
Concerns about increased street connectivity are often related to increased traffic on
residential streets. The community survey undertaken as part of this study found that
the no. 1 reason people are hesitant to connect cul-de-sacs is concerns about traffic
safety. The survey also found that traffic-related safety is important for all modes –
it is the no. 1 issue for driving, walking, and bicycling. The staff survey, meanwhile,
agreed that the no. 1 barrier to increasing connectivity in Utah communities is
perception of connectivity negatively influencing traffic-related safety.
•

While poor street connectivity may reduce traffic at a neighborhood microlevel, traffic usually increases on collector and arterial streets, creating more
severe barriers for residents around their neighborhood.

•

Our traffic modeling of some Utah neighborhoods found that improving
connectivity in urban and rural neighborhoods does not seem to attract
more through traffic, but at the same time provides a safer and better
environment for non-motorized traffic modes.

•

Overall safety in a community benefits more from a connected street
network than a disconnected one – see findings under “Safety” heading.

16 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

PART 2

Now that we understand what street connectivity is and why it is important,
we look to how we can make our streets connected within our current policy
environments and while still meeting other community goals. Improving Utah
communities’ street connectivity is well within the reach of communities. There are
many ways these improvements can happen.
This section and the section after it, the Design Guide and Case Studies, provide
practitioners with the tools to understand the existing street connectivity in your
community, develop ways to improve it, and see examples of applications of
strategies.
The guide presents two reference sections:

Tools for Street
Connectivity

•

Measuring Street Connectivity: a method for evaluating street connectivity;
and

•

Strategies, Best Practices and Tools to Improve Street Connectivity: A list of
potential strategies to improve street connectivity.

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 17

2.1 Measuring street connectivity

This guide offers a detailed method to measure the level of street connectivity in
your community. The following offers the information you will need to evaluate the
existing and improved connectivity in your community.

For this guide, these four aspects translate into four metrics to use to evaluate a
community’s street connectivity. These are divided into Basic Metrics and Advanced
Metrics.

The What is Connectivity section identified four key aspects of street connectivity.
They are:

Note that this section primarily introduces the metrics and describes how to
measure them. For the standards for the metrics, please see the tables in Section
3.1.4 as well as the context-based guidance in Section 3.3.

Relative level of connection

Network density

/
Ability to connect to destinations

18 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Quality of the network for all
users – walkability

2.1.1 Basic Metrics
The Basic Metrics provide a basic understanding of the street connectivity in a
community by measuring the levels of connectivity and density. They are relatively
easy to calculate and convey.

Connectivity index

Measuring the connectivity index is simple. Only a few points of information are
needed, each of which is available using basic mapping tools.
Area: The area is the area of your community you are
evaluating. Whether using GIS or another mapping tool,
draw or identify your area boundary and measure, in
square miles, your area.

The relative level of connection is measured by the connectivity index, also known
as the link-node ratio. The connectivity index is the ratio of the links in a given
area to the nodes in the same area. It expresses how efficient the intersections
are – the foundation of a well-connected network are intersections that connect to
several links. The connectivity index measures this quality.
Links: Links are lengths of street between intersections
or dead ends.
Connectivity index =
the number of links, or street lengths, (
)
divided by
the number of nodes - intersections/dead ends ( )
within a given area ( )

The connectivity index should be
as high as possible.

Nodes: Nodes are points where links meet. They come
in two types, each of which you will have to identify and
count: intersections and dead ends (cul-de- sacs count
as dead ends).

Draw the area, the links and the two kinds of nodes on
a map. To calculate the connectivity index, divide the
number of links by the number of nodes (combined
intersections and dead ends).

44 Links
34 Intersections + 4 Dead Ends

=

1.16 Connectivity Index
Utah Street Connectivity Guide 19

Intersections per square mile
Network density is measured by intersections per square mile, which is the
number of intersections per square mile within a given area. As intersections
are the basic unit of any street network, the network’s density is measured by the
density of the intersections. One of the benefits of the intersections per square
mile metric is that it can be scaled to apply to a city-wide network or a regional
network by limiting the level of street intersections being measured. For example,
while a neighborhood network might take into account intersections of all streets, a
regional network might take into account only intersections of arterial streets with
other arterial streets, because these are those generally used by travelers making
trips across the region.

Intersections per square mile =
the number of intersections ( )
in a given area ( )
divided by
the square mileage of that given area

Intersections per square mile
should be as high as possible.

Measuring the connectivity index is simple. Only a few points of information are
needed, each of which is available using basic mapping tools.
Area: The area is the area of your community you are
evaluating. Whether using GIS or another mapping tool,
draw or identify your area boundary and measure, in
square miles, your area.

Intersections: Intersections are points where links
meet. They do not count dead ends, such as cul-de
sacs.

Draw the area, the links and the two kinds of nodes on a map.
To calculate the intersections per square mile, divide the number of intersections
(not including the dead ends) by the area, in square miles.

34 Intersections
.22 mile

=

155 intersections per square mile

How do these scores rate? Look in our standards for different types of
neighborhoods in Sections 3.1 and 3.3.

20 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

2.1.2 Advanced Metrics
The Advanced Metrics provide understanding of additional dimensions of street
connectivity – specifically, the ability of a network to connect to the most important
destinations in a community and the ability of a network to accommodate
pedestrians, its most vulnerable users.
Measuring the advanced metrics requires more work (and, in the case of the travelsheds, mapping tools) but is relatively straightforward.

Travel-shed - accessibility rating
The ability to connect to community destinations is measured by generating a
“travel-shed” for a specific destination or the average of a set of travel-sheds for
a set of destinations. What is measured is the percentage of the travel-shed of
a specific distance from the destination that can be accessed using the street
network. The length of the radius being measured depends on the context. While,
in a neighborhood-scale area, the radius is a half-mile, in a community-scale area
the radius is two miles. The metric tells us how good of a job the street network is
doing in accessing a particular destination.
We also recommend using travel-sheds as a metric for evaluating walkability at
the scale of a city or region. Like with the evaluation of destination accessibility,
the evaluator selects a set of destinations whose travel-sheds can be tested. But
unlike the evaluation of destination accessibility, the network being evaluated is
the pedestrian network. For how to define the pedestrian network, see the next
Section 2.2.2 under Maximum Pedestrian Block Lengths.
This technique is used for both the accessibility of key destinations metric for
all scales and the pedestrian metric for the regional and community scales. The
process for both is very similar.

Travel-shed =
the area reached (
)
within a given distance (
from a destination ( )
using the street network (

)
)

First select the destination or destinations
you will evaluate access to. We recommend
choosing three destinations of significant
importance for a neighborhood-scale area
such as a school, grocery store, or church. You
may want to choose destinations in different
parts of your area in order to test accessibility
to a range of locations. Represent each
destination with a point feature in an ArcMap
shapefile.
Once the destinations are chosen and placed
in a shapefile, using ArcMap or another GIS
application, generate your area’s street
network using a street centerlines file
or another shapefile that represents the
network streets. Make sure the shapefile’s
network accurately represents the actual
connections and barriers presented by the
street network on the ground.

Study area and destination

Street network

NOTE: For the destination accessibility metric, the network should represent
connectivity for general purpose traffic, so include connections that allow general
purpose traffic. For the pedestrian metric for the region and community scales, the
network should represent the pedestrian network. To understand how to define
the pedestrian network, see the next section, under Maximum Pedestrian Block
Lengths.
Next, use the Network Analyst plug-in to set up an analysis of how well the
network serves each destination. Network Analyst calls this a “service area” – for
this metric we call it a “travel-shed.” Each destination’s travel-shed will have to be
calculated separately.
The distance from the destination being analyzed differs depending on the specific
metric and context. For the destination accessibility metric, use two miles for the
community and region scales and a half mile for the neighborhood scale. For the
pedestrian metric for the region and community scales, use a half mile.

The travel-shed should be as large as possible.

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 21

Run the service area analysis for each
destination, which will generate a polygon
of access.

Pedestrian block length

Then, determine the “ideal” travel-shed
within your study area. This area will
represent the 100 percent access to the
destination within the given distance,
against which to measure your actual
travel-shed. In some cases, the ideal
travel-shed will be your entire study area,
in others it will only be a part of it because
a portion of the study area is beyond the
ideal travel shed distance regardless of
connectivity.

Network Analyst output:
Service area / travel-shed

Pedestrian block length =
the distance, or gap (
),
between walkable streets or paths

Finally, take the areas of both the actual
Network Analyst travel-shed and the
ideal travel-shed. Divide the actual travelshed by the ideal travel-shed to get the
percentage of the surrounding area to
which the destination is accessible – the
accessibility rating. If you are measuring
the accessibility of a series of destinations
within an area, generate the average
accessibility rating.

(

)

The pedestrian block length should
be as small as possible.

Note: It is also possible to generate this
metric by hand, without ArcMap and
Network Analyst. To do this, after you
pick your destination, use a scaled map to
measure all possible routes at the given
distance (half mile for neighborhood-scale
areas), then connect the endpoints of
your routes to generate the shape of the
accessible area.

Service area / travel-shed
clipped to the study area

.14 sq mi
.22 sq mi

=

64% of study area is accessible to the destination
22 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

The quality of the network for all users is evaluated through its support of
pedestrians. This pedestrian support is evaluated by measuring the maximum
“pedestrian block length” in an area. Pedestrian block length is the spacing
between two parallel pedestrian routes. The larger a pedestrian block length, the
more inconvenient and difficult a network is for pedestrians. Just a few very large
“gaps” in spacing between pedestrian routes can render a neighborhood-scale
network unusable for pedestrians, hence the measurement of the highest five
pedestrian block lengths. The strength of this metric is not only understanding
the value of these maximum block lengths but the type of gaps in the network
– whether created by large properties or city blocks, infrastructure barriers like
railroad tracks or freeways, or major streets without adequate pedestrian crossings.

Maximum pedestrian block lengths are used to evaluate the walkability aspect of
connectivity in neighborhood-scale areas. This metric requires the evaluator to
see the street network through the eyes of a pedestrian. First, review the street
network for which streets do and do not reach a minimum standard of pedestrian
support. This minimum level of pedestrian support is as follows:
On-Street Pedestrian Links: For links in the network, a sidewalk or other pedestrian
facility must be present, or else the roadway must present enough of a traffic
calmed environment that pedestrians are safe and comfortable walking in the
roadway.

Intersections: At intersections where a pedestrian must cross a barrier street, an
across-barrier connection must be provided. These barrier streets and acrossbarrier connections are defined as follows:

Pedestrian block length is the space between parallel-running pedestrian
connections, whether these spaces are between links or between crossings of
intersections.

Barrier

Once you understand the key differences in the pedestrian network from the
overall street network, identify the places where the pedestrian links are farthest
apart from one another. These “gaps” could be the widths of large properties or
city blocks, the lengths of infrastructure barriers like railroad tracks or freeways,
or lengths of major streets without adequate pedestrian crossings. These are your
maximum pedestrian block lengths. We recommend identifying the highest five
pedestrian block lengths and taking the average.

Minimum across-barrier
connection required
None required

None: 25 mph or lower and two
lanes or fewer
Class I: Over 25 mph speed limit
Marked crosswalk
and/or three lanes or more
Class II: Two of three are true: 35
Signalized crossing
mph or higher speed limit; five
lanes or more; 20,000 average daily
traffic (ADT)

The numbers which these metrics should reach depends on your type of
community. These are explored in Section 3.1: Contexts for street connectivity.

Active transportation-only links: Find any trails or other paths that constitute links
in the network that allow only walking, bicycling, and other active transportation
modes.
Then, draw this pedestrian network, shown in orange below:
CROSSING OF BARRIER STREET

BARRIER STREET

The diagram on the right shows the
measurement of two of the longest
pedestrian blocks, or “gaps” between links
in the pedestrian network.

ON-STREET PEDESTRIAN LINK
(SIDEWALK)
ACTIVE-TRANSPORTATION
ONLY LINK (PATH)

1520 feet
Pedestrian link
Pedestrian barrier street

750 feet
These two examples show the different types of maximum pedestrian block lengths in
different networks. In the example on the left, the longest gap in the spacing of pedestrian
links is caused by the cul-de-sac streets, whose dead ends form one large “block” for
pedestrians. In the example in the right, the longest gap is caused by a barrier street whose
crossings are relatively far apart.

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 23

2.2 Strategies and best practices to improve
connectivity

2.2.1 Plans and policies

This guide includes a wide range of different types of strategies to increase
community character in order to provide practitioners with a choice of strategies
that will best suit your specific community, as well as to provide the potential
for synergy among different strategy types, for example long-range planning and
development standards.

Including street connectivity in a community’s general plan or other primary vision
document creates the directive for connectivity in the foundation of policy.

The end result of the use of this guide should be finding and implementing
strategies to increase street connectivity in communities in ways that complement
valued community characteristics.

We have categorized the types of potential strategies to increase connectivity into
four groups:
Plans and policies are higher-level policies that create the
foundation for good street connectivity.
•
Street and development standards are concrete rules that
implement the directives of the high-level policy.
•
Retrofit tools are methods to improve the street connectivity of
built-out areas.
•
Managing street connectivity refers to tools that complement and
maintain the functionality of connected streets and mitigate any
negative side effects.
These tools are explained in more detail below.

A jurisdiction’s planning documents often create the foundations for good
connectivity. While often not explicitly requiring types of street connections, plans
can create the justification for street connectivity within a community’s overall
vision, and set forth the template for the large-scale connections that are important
within a community.

EXPLICIT GENERAL PLAN POLICIES SUPPORTING STREET CONNECTIVITY
POLICIES TO DESIGN FOR ALL USERS
Directing city staff to design places and networks with all users in mind inherently
points these efforts toward better street connectivity. Addressing the needs of
different modes leads to a finer network of connections.

EX

AM

PL

E

•

POLICIES ENCOURAGING MULTIPLE AND DIRECT CONNECTIONS TO
DESTINATIONS

AM

PL
E

Transportation master plans, area plans, and other planning documents can
encourage and support the creation of multiple connections among destinations
and neighborhoods. They can outline the street pattern and connectivity standards
and emphasize that the local street system provides multiple direct connections
between local destinations.

EX

See the guidance and case studies in Part 3 for ideas on how to apply these strategies.

24 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Fort Collins, CO, requires that all local interconnected street networks
be designed with all users in mind (automobile, transit, bicycle, and
pedestrian).

Portland, Oregon’s right-of-way requirements and standards
include pedestrian connectivity. The city’s code requires direct
routes for bicycles and pedestrians in residential areas and
between neighborhood facilities. It also has specific standards and
requirements for through streets and pedestrian connections which
allow the most direct route.

CONNECTIONS TO OUTSIDE JURISDICTIONS
Planning documents, especially large-scale plans such as transportation master
plans, can identify preferred connections among jurisdictions. These interjurisdictional connections can also be coordinated by larger agencies such as state
departments of transportation and metropolitan planning organizations.

CUL-DE-SAC MANAGEMENT
Eliminating, limiting, or otherwise managing cul-de-sacs is a direct way to increase
street connectivity in new development. Development standards can:
•
•

TYPES OF STREET NETWORKS

•
•

Planning documents can identify preferred patterns of streets that generally create
good connectivity, such as grids of small blocks.

MINIMUM CONNECTIVITY STANDARDS

MP
EX
A

Standards are the complementary piece to plans and policies – they are concrete
rules that implement the directives of the high-level policy. In some cases,
standards apply to public infrastructure such as streets designed and built by
jurisdictions. In other cases, standards apply more to private developers who build
streets and other connections as part of their projects.

LE

2.2.2 Street and development standards

Prohibit cul-de-sacs.
Limit cul-de-sacs to a certain percentage of total streets: for
example, to 20 percent of streets.
Limit the maximum length of cul-de-sacs: for example, to 200 feet.
Provide specific exceptions: such as only when they can access land
not otherwise accessible through a connected street pattern due
to topography or other constraints.
The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation’s guidelines
for improving connectivity note that Cranberry Township in
Pennsylvania does not recommend approval of cul-de-sacs, while
Peters Township, PA, prohibits dead-end streets.

Codes can require that developments achieve a minimum connectivity index (see
metrics section), or reward developments that have a high connectivity index with
various incentives.

MAXIMUM BLOCK LENGTHS / LOCAL INTERSECTION SPACING

EX

AM

PL

E

Codes can also require maximum block lengths, which is essentially the spacing
of local street intersections. Depending on context, best practices are generally
average intersection spacing for local-streets of 300-400 feet, and maximum
intersection spacing for local streets of about 600 feet.
Lehi, UT, has developed code language that requires new
developments to meet a minimum connectivity index. Lehi also
includes maximum block lengths in its code language; the exact
maximum depends on the zone the street is located in (See pages
28-29).

MAXIMUM BLOCK SIZE
Another tool to create dense networks is to limit the size of whole blocks. Best
practice is generally a block size that will maintain the desired intersection density
while not creating large pedestrian block lengths.

In residential neighborhoods, many of the benefits
of cul-de-sacs can be created in a more connected
environment using techniques such as loop
streets whose connectivity is reinforced by active
transportation paths and limiting cul-de-sacs to rare
circumstances.

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 25

PEDESTRIAN CIRCULATION PLANS

ACCESS TO ARTERIALS

Pedestrian circulation plans provide a concept of how pedestrians will move around
and through a development.

In the same vein as providing multiple routes between a community and local
destinations, city codes can require multiple access connections between a
development and arterial streets.

Jurisdictions can require that new developments provide access from the
community to destinations within it without the use of arterial streets, thereby
preserving capacity on arterial streets for non-local traffic.

LE

The Kentucky Transportation Cabinet encourages proposed
developments to provide multiple direct connections in its local
street system to and between local destinations, such as parks,
schools, and shopping.

NON-ARTERIAL ACCESS TO DESTINATIONS

EX
A

EX
A

MP

LE

Jurisdictions can require developments to provide multiple routes to key
destinations for most, if not, all places in the community.

MP

MULTIPLE ACCESS TO DESTINATIONS

The Kentucky Transportation Cabinet encourages jurisdictions
to require that a proposed development shall provide multiple
direct connections in its local street system to and between local
destinations without requiring the use of arterial streets.

MAXIMUM ARTERIAL OR COLLECTOR INTERSECTION SPACING

Start with community goals
Understand what goals are important to the larger community. Street
connectivity has a wide range of positive effects and it is important to
understand the fundamental things the community wants to achieve with its
transportation policy and projects.

Describe the benefits
Discuss the specific benefits related to your community’s goals, whether for
mobility, the economy, the environment, safety, or others; see Section 1.2.

Emphasize the context
Point out that streets can be connected in ways that complement their
surroundings, whether it be in a downtown, rural neighborhood or industrial
area. Use our context-based guidance in Section 3.3 to identify some of the
considerations and ideas relevant to your community.

26 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

E
PL
AM

Much of the success of street connectivity improvements depends on broad
community buy-in to the benefits of street connectivity. Whether talking
to other city, county or agency staff, elected or appointed officials, or other
stakeholders, here are a few ways to frame the discussion.

EX

TALKING ABOUT CONNECTIVITY

For large developments including several arterial streets, standards can create
maximum amounts of space between arterial street intersections.
The Kentucky Transportation Cabinet recommends jurisdictions
require a proposed development should provide a potentially
signalized, full-movement intersection of a collector or a local street
with Arterial Street at an interval of at least every 1,320 feet or onequarter mile along arterial streets, and a proposed development
should provide an additional non-signalized, potentially limited
movement, intersection of a collector or local street with an
arterial street at an interval not to exceed 660 feet between the full
movement collector and the local street intersection.

MAXIMUM SPACING BETWEEN BIKE AND PEDESTRIAN CONNECTIONS
Standards can require a maximum spacing between pedestrian and bicycle
connections through a development and across major barriers such as arterial
streets. This closely parallels this guide’s “pedestrian block length” metric.

LIMITS ON WIDTH OF STREETS
Limiting the width of new streets achieves connectivity (and mitigates its negative
effects) in a number of ways, including facilitating pedestrian crossing, discouraging
through traffic, reducing speeds, and helping to offset increased costs to developers
of building more streets required to achieve better connectivity. Best practices
limit local street pavement widths to 24-32 feet (varies with on-street parking
restrictions).

RESTRICT PRIVATE AND GATED STREETS
Jurisdictions can improve connectivity by limiting or discouraging gated
communities and other restricted access roads.

STREET STUB REQUIREMENTS

EX

AM

PL

E

Jurisdictions can require developments to create street “stubs,” that is, streets that
are initially dead ends but can be connected when adjacent parcels are developed
in the future.

The Kentucky Transportation Cabinet’s guidelines recommend that
each development “shall incorporate and continue all collector
or local streets stubbed to the boundary of the development
plan by previously approved but unbuilt development or existing
development.”

An example of subdivision plans that left street
stubs that will connect to the streets of a future
development outlined in yellow.

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 27

Chapter 37 Design Standards

Adopted 09/11/12

LEHI’S STREET CONNECTIVITY STANDARDS

7. Buildings shall be oriented to the right-of-

way in order to create a “street wall” along the
street edge with no front yard setback except to
allow for some minor landscaped areas, courtLehi City recognized the importance
yards, or plazas. Parking shall not be located beof street
connectivity
andand
undertook
tween
the street
and buildings
shall be
placed
at the process
interior portion
of the property
(see
1.5-year
to create
and adopt
figure 24).

street connectivity standards.

8. A minimum of twenty five (25) percent of
the
area began
must be the
xeriscaped
as
In total
latelandscape
2014, staff
process
defined by the Development Code. Xeriscaping
researching
isby
strongly
encouragedconnectivity
in passive open metrics
space areas
turf grass used
a central
active
open
towith
determine
the in
right
fit for
Lehi.
space area.

Planning staff worked closely with

tocirculation.
draft several
versions
9.Engineering
Pedestrian
Mult-family
residential
projects shalluntil
provide
a circulation
of the ordinance
everyone
plan and show the following improvements to
agreed
on a version
that
could be
improve
pedestrian
circulation
and safety:
(a) Pedestrian
that interconnect
utilized
duringwalkways
the subdivision
the adjacent
street(s),Staff
open provided
spaces, parking
approval
process.
areas, building entrys, adjacent sites and
evidence
showplanned
the benefits
of
adjacent to
master
trails where
applicable.
Each building
along
a
street
connectivity
andlocated
the Lehi
City
public road must provide a sidewalk
Council
adopted
standards
April
connection
from the the
building
entrance tointhe
of public
2016.sidewalk.
(b) Walkways shall be hard surfaced with
concrete, brick pavers or asphalt.
The
(c)adopted
Crosswalksstreet
shall connectivity
be placed where
pedestrian utilizes
walkwaysa few
crossprimary
streets and
ordinance
internal roads and shall be painted or made
metrics
that resemble those used
of concrete or brick pavers.
in the Utah Street Connectivity

velopment or unless otherwise approved by the
Planning Commission and City Council.

disperse vehicular travel and increase
accessibility for emergency response.
Lehi City Development Code

28 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Adopted 09/11/12

(New 04/26/16)

links and nodes that serves as a metric for measuring the level of connectivity.

locations if it will increase the connectivity within an adjacent property.

A. Purpose. These standards are intended to create a
connected transportation system between neighborhoods and commercial areas within the City. The
specific purposes of this Section include:

4. Cul-de-sac Length – The distance from the
street intersection to the throat of the cul-de-sac
bulb (see Figure 26).

4. A circulation plan will be required for proposed developments with more than one acre in
project size or with more than ten (10) units. The
Planning Director and City Engineer may waive
the requirement for a circulation plan on a caseby-case basis.

Section 37.050. Connectivity Standards

1. Promoting walkability through additional
connections and shorter block lengths.
2.

Improving emergency response time.

3.

Increasing effectiveness of delivery access.

4.

Providing better routes to schools and parks.

5. Reducing impacts of development on Master
Planned arterial and collector roads by providing
alternative routes.
6. Preventing isolated developments that increase dependency on automobiles.
B. Definitions.
1. Block Length – The distance along any given road frontage between two intersections with
3 or more connecting links (see Figure 25).
Links that connect into a cul-de-sac shall not be
considered the termination point of a block
length.

C. Downtown
Spacing Requirements.
Study (USCS):
a connectivity index

and maximum
1.(link-node
The existingratio)
single-family
characteristics of
the
centraland
residential
neighborhoods
of the City
block
cul-de-sac
lengths.
shall be maintained. For the purposes of this
Minimum requirements for these
subsection, a central residential neighborhood
metrics
increase
both
connectivity
shall
be defined
as any
existing
residential
neighborhood
in an R-2density,
or R-3 Zone
and intersection
thewithin
twothe
area from State Street to 400 South and from 500
basic
streetany
connectivity
West
to aspects
850 East of
including
dwellings or
properties
fronting
on USCG.
said streets.
order to
identified
in the
TheInadopted
maintain the existing single family characterisordinance includes requirements
tics of said central residential area, any new two
and bonuses
pedestrian
and
trail
family,
three family,for
four
family or multi
family
dwelling
within thebetween
defined area,
and where
connections
streets
or atallowed in an R-2 or R-3 Zone, shall not be locatend aoffour
cul-de-sacs.
In practice,
edthe
within
hundred (400)
foot radius
(measured
from building
footprint tohave
building
the connectivity
standards
been
footprint)
of
the
nearest
existing
two
family,
effective
in
creating
subdivisions
three family, four family or multi-family dwellthat
arewhen
more
walkable,
better
ing
except
located
in a Planned
Unit De-

Chapter 37 Design Standards

D. Connectivity Index Calculation. The required
connectivity index is calculated by dividing the total
number of links by the total number of nodes (see
Figure 27).

Figure 26. Example of cul-de-sac length measurement.

5. Curb Extension – An extension of a curb in
a roadway to narrow the road at pedestrian crossings to provide additional safety for pedestrians
and serves as a traffic calming measure.
6. Links – Streets that connect to nodes or external streets not included in the proposed development.
7. Node – Street intersection or cul-de-sac located within a proposed development. A street
intersection exists where two or more named
roads intersect.
C. Circulation Plan. A circulation plan shall be provided as part of a preliminary subdivision plat application.
1. The circulation plan must address street
connectivity, pedestrian circulation, emergency
access, and parking movements. In cases where
cut-through traffic is likely, traffic calming
measures such as curb extensions, chicanes,
raised crossings, or other features may be required.

Figure 25. Example block length measurements.

2. Chicane – An extension of a curb typically
on a local street to provide an element of traffic
calming.
3.

Connectivity Index – A ratio of roadway

2. The circulation plan shall show the connectivity index, block length dimensions, cul-de-sac
length dimensions, pedestrian facilities, and any
proposed traffic calming features.
3. The circulation plan must take into account
access and connectivity on adjacent parcels. On a
case-by-case basis the Planning Director and
City Engineer may require changes to stub road

Page 37-12
Lehi City Development Code

Figure 27. Example connectivity index calculation showing nodes
and links. This example shows 23 links and 13 nodes which
equates to a connectivity index of 1.77.

1. For the purposes of calculating the number
of total links, one link beyond each node shall be
included in the connectivity index calculation.
Street stubs that provide future access to adjacent
properties or streets that connect to existing
streets are considered links.
2. An additional ½ link shall be included in the
connectivity index calculation for each of the following:
(a) Hard surface pedestrian connection
through a cul-de-sac with a minimum width
of ten (10) feet including an additional two
(2) foot soft shoulder on each side (see Figure 28);
(b) Hard surface master planned trail connection with a minimum width of (10) feet
including an additional two (2) foot soft
shoulder on each side (see Figure 29);
(c) Internal hard surface trail segment connecting two roads with a minimum width of
ten (10) feet including an additional two (2)
foot soft shoulder on each side (see figure
30).

Page 37-13

Chapter 37 Design Standards

Adopted 09/11/12

Chapter 37 Design Standards
reviewing departments and Planning Commission and approval by the City Council.
The total allowed reduction to the required
connectivity index will be based on an analysis of existing conditions that prevent connections. As part of the analysis, City staff
will ensure the internal connectivity of the
subdivision meets the required connectivity
index and that connectivity is provided to
adjacent properties where possible.

Figure 28. Cul-de-sac with a pedestrian connection to allow access to an adjacent open space.

Figure 31. Park layout allows access from all sides with home
fronts facing the park.

E. Residential Connectivity Standards. All new
residential subdivisions with ten (10) or more units or
more than one acre shall meet the following connectivity index, block length, and cul-de-sac length
standards for public roads. Private roads shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis: however, a public
road may be required to prevent a private road in a
subdivision from stubbing into a future or existing
public road.

Figure 29. Pedestrian connection to a master planned trail.

1. Required Connectivity Index. The minimum
required connectivity index shall be required
based on the project density as identified in the
following table of minimum connectivity index
scores:
Density
0-2.5 DU/AC
2.6-4 DU/AC
4.1+ DU/AC

Figure 30. Trails make pedestrian connections between multiple
streets.

3. An additional ¼ link shall be included in the
connectivity index calculation for each roadway
segment where homes face an amenitized open
space, park, or natural area (see Figure 31). The
roadway segment shall have a minimum three
hundred (300) feet of frontage along the said
open space.

Lehi City Development Code

Minimum Index Score
1.5
1.6
1.75

(a) Reduction in Required Connectivity Index. The required connectivity index may be
reduced if the applicant provides clear and
convincing evidence that it is impossible or
impracticable to achieve due to the following limitations:
i. Topography;
ii. Natural features including lakes,
rivers, designated wetlands;
iii. Existing adjacent development;
iv. Rail corridors;
v. Limited access roadways.
Reductions in the required connectivity index will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis
and must require recommendations from the

Page 37-14

2. Maximum Block Lengths. Maximum block
lengths allowed shall be required based on the
project density as identified on the following table:
Density
Maximum Block Length
0-2.5 DU/AC
1,000 ft.
2.6-4 DU/AC
800 ft.
4.1+ DU/AC
600 ft.
(a) Increase in Block Length. The maximum allowed block length may be increased
if the applicant provides clear and convincing evidence that it is impossible or impracticable to achieve due to the following limitations:
i. Topography;
ii. Natural features including lakes,
rivers, designated wetlands;
iii. Existing adjacent development;
iv. Rail corridors;
v. Limited access roadways.
Increases in block length will be reviewed
on a case-by-case basis and must require
recommendations from the reviewing departments and Planning Commission and
approval by the City Council.
3. Cul-de-sac Length Standards. Maximum
cul-de-sac lengths allowed shall be required
based on the project density as identified on the
following table:
Density
Maximum Cul-de-sac
Length
0-2.5 DU/AC
400 ft.
2.6+ DU/AC
250
.
(h) Cul-de-sacs shall not be allowed in the
R-2, R-2.5 or R-3 zones unless the applicant
provides clear and convincing evidence that
a cul-de-sac is be necessary to develop the
entire parcel due to the following limitations:
i. Topography;

Lehi City Development Code

Adopted 09/11/12
ii. Natural features including lakes,
rivers, designated wetlands;
iii. Existing adjacent development;
iv. Rail corridors;
v. Limited access roadways.
Requests for cul-de-sac within the R-2, R2.5, and R-3 zones will be reviewed on a
case-by-case basis and must require recommendations from the reviewing departments
and Planning Commission and approval by
the City Council.
F. External Street Connectivity Standards. In addition to the internal street connectivity standards, external connectivity shall be maintained.
1. Cul-de-sacs. In cases where cul-de-sacs have
one (1) or two (2) rows of lots between the end
of the cul-de-sac and an external road, a hard
surface pedestrian connection with a minimum
width of ten (10) feet including an additional two
(2) foot soft shoulder on each side shall be utilized to connect to the external street (see Figure
32).

Figure 32. Sidewalk connection from cul-de-sac connects to an
external collector road.

2. Pedestrian connections shall be utilized to
connect proposed developments to master
planned trails and adjacent existing or future developments where applicable. Connections shall
be of a hard surface with a minimum width of
ten (10) feet including an additional two (2) foot
soft shoulder on each side.
G. Non-Residential Connectivity Standards. All
new non-residential subdivisions containing the dedication of public roads shall meet the following connectivity index and block length standards. Private
roads shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis:
however, a public road may be required to prevent a
private road in a subdivision from stubbing into a

Page 37-15
Utah Street Connectivity
Guide 29

CUL-DE-SAC CONNECTIONS – FULL STREET

2.2.3 Retrofit tools
Many Utah communities are built-out and lack good street connectivity. Yet, as
with newly-built communities, improved street connectivity can help achieve many
community goals in built-out communities as well. However, a different set of
strategies is needed for this street connectivity retro-fitting.

PLANNING DOCUMENT GUIDANCE ON KEY CONNECTIONS
Planning documents, especially plans focusing on small areas or corridors, can
identify key connections that will help make key destinations more accessible,
improve walkability or bikeability, or distribute a neighborhood or district’s traffic.
If this connection is shown in an adopted planning document, it is easier for a
community to require that it be made when a property is developed or if the
community pursues it as a capital improvement.

COMPLETE STREETS
Making streets compatible with all modes improves connectivity in a few different
ways. First, complete streets help ensure that street networks are complete for all
users – not just vehicle traffic. Second, complete streets are also those that can be
crossed by all modes, reducing barriers to the most vulnerable street users such as
pedestrians.
The best ways to use complete streets to improve connectivity are to plan and build
complete networks for all modes, and to identify key streets and corridors that are
priorities for being complete streets. Both of these can be accomplished largely by
retrofitting existing streets to serve all users.

PEDESTRIAN CROSSING IMPROVEMENTS
Similar to complete streets, pedestrian
crossing improvements are a way to retrofit
existing streets to improve the connectivity
of the pedestrian network. Often, major
streets pose the most challenging barriers
for pedestrian connectivity in a community.
In fact, a community may have small blocks
and connected streets, but if a major street
whose signalized pedestrian crossings
are a quarter mile or half mile apart, the
connectivity is poor for pedestrians.

An example of a high-visibility crosswalk
in a neighborhood

There is a range of tools that can get pedestrians across a major street safely. Their
use depends on pedestrian demand for the crossing, the traffic situation, and
surrounding land use factors. These tools include full signals, mid-block half-signals
activated by crossing pedestrians, hybrid beacon/stop signals, flashing beacons,
grade-separated crossings, and high-visibility marked crosswalks.

30 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Connecting the ends of cul-de-sacs to nearby streets or other cul-de-sacs is often
the first strategy for retrofitting street connectivity that comes to mind. The
elimination of a dead end and creation of a new intersection gets to the heart of
our definition of street connectivity and likely helps people living on that street
and in surrounding areas access destinations easier, especially on foot and on a
bike. However, connecting cul-de-sacs is very difficult to do within most policy
and community environments. Cul-de-sacs remain popular places to live, and
connecting them, especially for a full street, usually involves property acquisition.
Situations exist where unbuilt lots at the end of cul-de-sacs exist; in those
situations, connecting through can be slightly easier. However the best approach
to cul-de-sacs is managing them and their effect on connectivity in the first place
when a subdivision is planned, entitled, and built.

PEDESTRIAN PASS-THROUGHS TO ARTERIAL STREETS AND
COMMERCIAL AREAS
A related type of connectivity retrofit strategy to the cul-de-sac connection is
creating pedestrian pass-throughs from neighborhoods to commercial areas based
on arterial corridors. Development patterns in many Utah communities have led
to lack of access between residential street networks and adjacent arterial streets.
In many cases, the potential exists to allow pedestrians to “pass through” the
back of a commercial property to shorten the walk to a grocery store or other
neighborhood store or business.

LARGE LAND USE PASS-THROUGHS AND ENTRIES
Many communities have large land uses that have limited entries. These land uses
include shopping malls, office campuses, apartment complexes, and many others.
These limited entries challenge the access to that land use but they also frustrate
overall area connectivity. Allowing a connected network to run through these large
land uses can improve overall neighborhood/district or even community-wide
connectivity.
In the example on the right,
residents of the neighborhood
shown are very close to a
commercial area, however
due to the walled cul-de-sacs,
they must travel a circuitous
route to access these amenities.
Simple connections through
the dead ends can improve
access to the commercial area.

CUL-DE-SAC CONNECTIONS – BIKE & PEDESTRIAN

TRANSIT STOP AND DESTINATION TRAVEL-SHEDS

Pedestrian and bike connections through existing cul-de-sacs present a more
feasible alternative to full street connections. These active transportation
connections require less width and do not present the traffic concerns that full
street connections do. In addition, the Utah Street Connectivity Guide community
survey found that 7 out of 10 respondents was generally comfortable with making
active transportation connections through existing cul-de-sacs.

When the desire exists to improve connection to a specific destination such as a
transit stop/station or other community or regional amenity, one way to prioritize
potential improvements is to analyze the “travel-shed” of this destination – similar
to the advanced metrics of this guide. Doing this analysis and exploring which
connections create the biggest improvements in the size of the travel shed is one
effective way to package a set of improvements.

Making these connections benefits from planning ahead through the Planning
Document Guidance on Key Connections described above. While less difficult
than full street connections, even bike/pedestrian connections require significant
effort and funds; targeting these efforts to connections that will gain the most
connectivity improvements is important.

LEVERAGE EASEMENTS FOR ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION

Sometimes streets dead end because of
topographical barriers; pedestrian and
bike paths can overcome these obstacles to
connect communities.

Easements exist throughout
Utah communities – for canals,
utilities, natural systems,
Homeowners Associations,
and many other uses. These
easements are often sensitive
and off-limits for other uses but
there is sometimes the potential
to run an active transportation
trail.
The Murdock Canal trail uses a canal route to provide
a valuable connection for walkers, cyclists, and other
active transportation users.

Examples of pedestrian and bike connections through property barriers at the ends of cul-desacs or through a large block.

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 31

2.2.4 Managing street connectivity

TRANSIT-FRIENDLY DESIGN

An additional set of strategies help maintain and implement the benefits of street
connectivity and mitigate its drawbacks.

Enhanced connectivity by itself may not be able to provide the desired impact on
mode choice, and consequently on health, environment, and active transportation.
Several other improvements must be made simultaneously to reach the expected
results. One of these measures is transit-friendly design (TFD). TFD is a set of design
guidelines that ease the integration of transit facilities into residential and nonresidential areas. TFD improves the attractiveness of transit modes by increasing its
utility. Consequently, TFDs improve overall transportation performance, improve air
quality, and help provide the other benefits associated with street connectivity.

TRAFFIC CALMING MEASURES
Traffic calming measures (TCM) are means to force speed reduction in residential
and dense downtown areas. As mentioned, enhanced connectivity increases
the accessibility and path alternatives for each trip. Many of these paths may be
located in residential areas. If not managed, multiple path alternatives could lead
to increased congestion and decreased safety in these locations. TCMs can help
prevent this situation, thus they are an important part of street connectivity.

Examples of traffic calming techniques in neighborhoods (from left): an exit-only street
connection between a neighborhood and a major street; bulb-outs (which also create a
shorter pedestrian crossing); and a traffic circle.

As mentioned above, TFDs increase the utility of transit modes. TFD guidelines
focus on the following eight principles, adapted from the Calgary Transit Division,
Transportation Department of the City of Calgary 2006:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Provide appropriate community densities
Minimize walking distance (Figure 3)
Provide a mix of land uses
Organize density, land use, and buildings to benefit from transit
Create a pedestrian-friendly environment
Route transit into the community
Reduce transit travel time
Build quality, user-friendly transit facilities

COMPLETE STREETS
Complete streets policies can support connectivity by ensuring that the links in
the network cater to all types of users. See Retrofit Strategies section for more
information of complete streets policies.

MARKET STRATEGIES FOR IMPLEMENTING CONNECTIVITY
A key strategy for implementing connectivity is to ensure that incentives and
rewards accrue to the level of government or the private developer making the
initial investment. These tools include private market incentives such as higher
rents and property values through higher densities and public tools such as value
capture, tax increment support, and special assessment districts.

Examples of transit-supportive street treatments (clockwise from upper left): Bus-only lane;
a red “queue bypass” lane to bypass intersection traffic; and island boarding for buses.

32 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

PART 3

Connectivity is not a one-size fits-all mandate. This guide has intentionally
developed different ways to improve connectivity in a range of the contexts found
in Utah’s communities – both urban and rural, built-out and developing, and at the
scale of the region, community and neighborhood.
This part of the guide explores these different contexts. It does this by 1) providing
a design guide for street connectivity in different types of communities and 2)
undertaking case studies for each context type. The design guide and case studies
bring together the ideas from Part 1 and the tools from Part 2 to demonstrate
how street connectivity can be evaluated and improved in different types of Utah
communities - and how we can estimate the benefits our communities will receive
as a result.

Design Guide and
Case Studies

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 33

3.1 Contexts for street connectivity

Streets inhabit and serve different types of communities. These differences –
whether in land uses, population density, levels of activity, demographics, the effect
of natural systems, and other factors – create circumstances where the specifics of
how a street network should interact with its surroundings are different.
This is the reason why this guide offers context-specific guidance for street
connectivity – street connectivity cannot be a one-size-fits-all directive. We define
these contexts both by scale – whether a region, city, or neighborhood. We
also define them by land use type – whether residential, non-residential, mixed
use, as well as how intense the use is. These differences have produced three
levels of connectivity types, each with one to six sub-types addressing land use
characteristics.
These contexts are for the help of the user – it is up to you, the user of the guide, to
choose which context applies to your community.
It is important to note that good overall street connectivity depends on strong
street connectivity for all scales. Regional, community and neighborhood/district
street connectivity all reinforce one another.

3.1.1 Regional-scale connectivity
Regional-scale connectivity is street connectivity for travelers making trips across
the region. Trips across the region are usually those over city borders. The most
typical kind of regional trip is the work commute, but these trips are also made for
social visits, recreation, and shopping.
Areas in which to analyze regional-scale connectivity are groups of different cities or
communities that contain regional-level trips. An example of this kind of area could
be the entire Wasatch Front, but could also be a sub-area such as Salt Lake County,
or the area covered by one of the Metropolitan Planning Organizations (MPOs)
such as the Dixie MPO.
Regional-scale connectivity considers only those streets typically used by regional
travelers – for this guide, these are defined as arterial and above level streets and
roadways.

34 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

3.1.2 Community-scale connectivity
Community-scale connectivity is street connectivity within the borders of a local
jurisdiction, most commonly a city. This guide defines three types of communities:
Urban: An urban community is a city or other
local jurisdiction with:
•
•

Higher overall density
A high degree of intersecting
regional transportation
facilities and regional
destinations
•
A high degree of land use mix
Suburban: A suburban community is a city or other local jurisdiction with:
•
•

Medium overall density
Fewer regional transportation
facilities and regional
destinations
•
Lower degree of land use mix
Rural: A rural community is a city or other local
jurisdiction with:
•
•
•

Low density
Relatively isolated from other
communities
High degree of agricultural,
mountain land, or other
natural open space within the
community

Community-scale connectivity considers only those streets typically used by
citywide travelers – for this guide, these are defined as collector-and-above-level
streets and roadways.

3.1.3 Neighborhood and district connectivity
Neighborhood and district-scale connectivity is street connectivity within a
neighborhood or district of common community character. These areas can
range in size – as small as a single subdivision to as large as a several square mile
subsection of a city.
This guide defines six types of neighborhoods/districts:
Urban residential neighborhood: An
urban residential neighborhood is a higherdensity residential area with a mix of civic,
commercial, and office uses.

Downtown district: A mixed-use center
of activity that attracts people from
throughout the community and sometimes
the region.

BRIDGE or
UNDERPASS

ARTERIAL
FREEWAY/
INTERCHANGE

COLLECTOR

/

/

LOCAL

/

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

PEDESTRIAN

/

TRANSIT
STOP

OPEN SPACE

BUILDING

NEW
DEVELOPMENT

RAIL TRACKS

/

BRIDGE or
UNDERPASS

300’

Suburban residential neighborhood:
A lower-density residential area with
other types of uses typically found on
nearby arterial or collector corridors.

ARTERIAL
FREEWAY/
INTERCHANGE

COLLECTOR

/

/

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

LOCAL

/

/

TRANSIT
STOP

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING

OPEN SPACE

NEW
DEVELOPMENT

RAIL TRACKS

300’

Campus district: A large land use such as
an educational campus, shopping center,
business park, or entertainment/lifestyle
center.

ARTERIAL

COLLECTOR

/

/

LOCAL

/

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

INTERNAL

/

TRANSIT
AGRICULTURAL/
STOP
NATURAL OPEN SPACE

PEDESTRIAN

BRIDGE or
UNDERPASS

BUILDING

NEW
DEVELOPMENT

300’

Rural residential neighborhood: A
very low density residential area with
agricultural or natural space and few
other uses present.

ARTERIAL

COLLECTOR

FREEWAY/
INTERCHANGE

LOCAL

BUILDING
ENTRY

PEDESTRIAN

/

TRANSIT
STOP

BUILDING

OPEN SPACE

300’

Industrial district: An area focused on
production or distribution activities.

STUB STREET FOR
FUTURE CONNECTION

ARTERIAL

/

COLLECTOR

/

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

LOCAL

/

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

/

INTERNAL

TRANSIT
AGRICULTURAL/
STOP
NATURAL OPEN SPACE

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING
300’

BRIDGE or
UNDERPASS

ARTERIAL
FREEWAY/
INTERCHANGE

COLLECTOR

LOCAL

/

TRANSIT
STOP

Neighborhood and district-scale connectivity considers all streets.

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING

OPEN SPACE

NEW
DEVELOPMENT

RAIL TRACKS

300’

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 35

3.1.4 Metrics and street connectivity contexts
The street connectivity metrics described in the Measuring Street Connectivity Section 2.1 apply to all of the street connectivity contexts, but they are measured differently
depending on the scale, and the specific context type determines the standard for each metric. For example, an urban neighborhood has much higher standards for the
connectivity index and intersection density than a rural neighborhood.
The following tables provide a summary of how each metric applies to each street connectivity context type.

REGION-SCALE
METRICS

COMMUNITYSCALE METRICS

NEIGHBORHOODSCALE METRICS

the relative level of connection

Connectivity index of
arterial-level streets

Connectivity index of
collectors and abovelevel streets

Connectivity index of all
streets

network density

Arterial intersections
per square mile

Collector or above
Intersections per square
intersections per square
mile of all streets
mile

Basic connectivity metrics

Advanced connectivity metrics

ability to connect to destinations
quality of network for all users
(walkability)

36 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Average travel-shed
percentage for key
destinations

Percentage of
community travel-shed
for key destinations

Percentage of
neighborhood/district
travel-shed for key
destinations

Percentage of potential halfmile walk shed from set of

Percentage of potential halfmile walk shed from set of

Average of highest 5
pedestrian blocks (spacing

community destinations

community destinations

between pedestrian links)

CONTEXT-BASED STANDARDS for CONNECTIVITY METRICS
TYPOLOGY

Regional typology
Region
Community
typologies
Urban community
Suburban community
Rural community
Neighborhood /
district typologies
Residential
neighborhood urban
Residential
neighborhood
suburban
Residential
neighborhood rural
Downtown district
Campus district
Industrial district

Relative level of
connection

Network density

Connectivity index of
arterial and above-level
streets

Arterial or above
intersections per square
mile

2

1

Connectivity index of
collector and above-level
streets

2
1.8
1.6
Connectivity index of all
streets

Ability to connect to
destinations
Average travel-shed
percentage for key
destinations

100 percent
Collector or above
intersections per square
mile

7
5
3

Average travel-shed
percentage for key
destinations

100 percent
100 percent
100 percent
intersections per mile

Average travel-shed
percentage for key
destinations

Quality for all users
(walkability)
Accessibility index for walking
half mile from set of community
destinations

100 percent
Accessibility index for walking
half mile from set of community
destinations

100 percent
100 percent
100 percent
Average of highest 5 pedestrian
blocks (spacing between
pedestrian links)

1.7

225

100 percent

Maximum 500 feet

1.5

175

100 percent

Maximum 1000 feet

1.5
1.7
1.5
1.5

50
225
50
50

100 percent
100 percent
100 percent
100 percent

Maximum 1500 feet
Maximum 350 feet
Maximum 500 feet
Maximum 1500 feet

* Connectivity index for neighborhoods and districts should incorporate surrounding collector/arterial streets along the area boundary, if applicable.

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 37

3.2 Introduction to case studies

Building on the context-based approach to this document, and to provide some
Utah-based application of the tools presented and exploration of benefits, the
project team undertook a series of case studies.
The case studies were based in three northern Utah communities: Lehi. Layton, and
Tooele County. Representatives of each community were members of the project
Working Group and provided input to this study along the process.

3.2.1 Area selection
The project team worked with each community to select areas to focus the case
study analyses. Following the context types set out in the previous section, these
areas include both the entire community and a series of sub-areas.
Selection of the case study neighborhood/district scale areas was based on a few
factors:
•

Locations where local jurisdiction staff have identified street
connectivity issues or opportunities;
•
Covering each of the context types set out in the previous sections
in order to explore connectivity issues and solutions in the full
range of Utah communities; and
•
Covering the overall range of street connectivity issues and
strategies.
Based on these factors, the team and the communities selected the following areas
(with the context type in parentheses):

38 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

LEHI

•
•
•
•
•

Full Lehi City (Urban Community)
Downtown Lehi (Downtown District)
Thanksgiving Point (Campus District)
Skyridge High School (Suburban Neighborhood)
The Exchange - development planned but not yet built (Suburban
Neighborhood)

LAYTON

•
•
•
•
•

Full Layton City (Suburban Community)
Downtown Layton (Urban Neighborhood)
Layton Parkway and Angel Street (Suburban Neighborhood)
Kays Creek and Oak Lane (Suburban Neighborhood)
Layton Industrial Area (Industrial District)

TOOELE COUNTY

•
•

The central area of Tooele Valley including Erda, Stansbury Park, and Lake Point
(Rural Community)
West Erda (Rural Neighborhood)

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 39

3.2.2 Evaluation
The project team evaluated the existing street connectivity of each of the 12
case study areas according to the four Utah Street Connectivity Guide metrics
described in Section 2.1. The street network was drawn on a map in terms of links,
intersections, and dead ends. Each area was given a raw score for each metric as
well as how it compares to the Utah Street Connectivity Guide standard for the
context type.

3.2.3 Proposed connectivity improvements
Based on the evaluation, the project team determined the best opportunities for
improving the street connectivity in each case study area. Generally, the team
looked to improve the metrics for which the area scored most poorly. The team
sought to apply a balanced set of the strategies described in Section 2.2 – Plans
and Policies, Street and Development Standards, Retrofit Strategies, and
Managing Connectivity strategies. The team revised the case study area maps to
reflect the strategies selected, and then re-measured each metric.

3.2.4 Benefits modeling
Once the proposed connectivity improvements and their impact on the
connectivity metrics were established, the project team evaluated the potential
benefits of these increases in connectivity. We used modeling techniques to
investigate and quantify specific community benefits that the team believed would
result from changes to the street network to increase connectivity.
Benefits in this guide are defined as changes resulting from increased street
connectivity that achieve community goals. At the onset of the study, the project
team worked together with the project’s Working Group to identify community
benefits potentially affected by increased street connectivity.
The Working Group came up with the following community goals:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Regional and community mobility
Transportation choice
Accessibility to destinations
Safety and health
Effective infrastructure
Community livability
Economic vitality
Environmental stewardship
Interlocal and regional compatibility
Overcoming geographic barriers
Growth management

The project team identified benefits closely associated with these goals. For
example, under the goal “regional and community mobility,” the team found
benefits such as arterial traffic reduction, vehicle miles traveled (VMT) reduction,
and trip length reduction. Many of these can be quantified: not only in terms of
traffic but also dollars or time saved, amounts of healthy behavior, number of
people able to access a destination, or the values of property.
The benefit modeling seeks to quantify these benefits based on changes to the
street network and the resulting street connectivity. Largely because of data needs,
the benefit modeling was focused on the community-wide areas of each of the
three case study areas (rather than the neighborhood/district areas).
The types of modeling undertaken are summarized below.

40 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

TRAFFIC MODELING
Vehicular traffic benefits were measured on several levels using different types
of traffic models. The models captured changes in traffic volumes, vehicle-miles
traveled (VMTs) and overall speeds.
The traffic modeling output measures of the following benefits:
•
•
•

Traffic volume changes
Vehicle miles traveled
Travel times

ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION MODELING
The team undertook active transportation modeling to quantify the health-,
environmental-, and transportation-related benefits associated with the estimated
number of motor vehicle trips replaced by active transportation trips (bicycling and
walking) through a series of economic multipliers that derived from the National
Household Travel Survey (2009), local household travel surveys, and peer-reviewed
journal articles. In order to estimate the number of motor vehicle trips replaced
by active transportation, the team used data from walking- and bike-friendly peer
cities with similar characteristics and connectivity as the case study communities.

ECONOMIC MODELING
The team also estimated economic benefits of improved connectivity, specifically
changes in taxable sales resulting from increased connectivity. Depending on the
type of connection made, along with the type of uses that connection is bringing
together, the team assigned an increased value ratio from the literature.
A more detailed summary of the benefits modeling methods and results are in the
Appendix.

3.2.5 Results
The results of the case studies, both the potential connectivity improvements and
the modeling for each community, are summarized in the following Section 3.3:
Street Connectivity Design Guide and Case Study Results.

The active transportation modeling output measures of the following benefits:
•

•

•

Travel Behavior
o Estimated annual bicycle and pedestrian trips
o Estimated annual motor vehicle trips reduced
o Estimated annual vehicle miles traveled reduced
Environmental Benefits
o Estimated annual metric tons of particulate matter (PM2.5 and
PM10) reduced
o Estimated annual metric tons of nitrous oxides (NOx) reduced
o Estimated annual metric tons of sulfur oxides (SOx) reduced
o Estimated annual metric tons of volatile organic compounds
(VOC) reduced
o Estimated annual metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) reduced
o Estimated annual environmental benefits from reduced
greenhouse gases and criteria pollutants ($USD)
Health Benefits
o Estimated average annual newly active persons (number of
persons meeting the CDC’s minimum level of physical activity
per week from active transportation)
o Estimated annual healthcare cost savings ($USD)

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 41

3.3 Street Connectivity Design Guide and Case Study Results

This section illustrates how you, the user, can put together the information in this guide to improve street connectivity in your community. The guidance in this section is
based on the different community contexts. Each context type contains a section that provides a set of considerations that may apply in your type of environment and the
set of standards for each of the four metrics to measure street connectivity.
Meanwhile, each case study results page contains an explanation of the area; the evaluation of the area’s connectivity according to the Utah Street Connectivity Guide
metrics in Section 2.1; suggested potential strategies according to the four types of strategies identified in Section 2.2; a map showing how the suggested strategies might
look; and a re-evaluation of the metrics with the strategies incorporated. For the three community-scale case studies a summary of the benefits modeling is included. An
example is below:

CONTEXT TYPE GUIDANCE
Name of the
context type

SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS

A lower-density residential area with other types of uses typically found on nearby
arterial corridors
•
1
2
•

3•

Connectivity
guidelines and
considerations
for the context
type

STREET CONNECTIVITY ISSUES AND CONSIDERATIONS
FOR SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOODS

Street connectivity
Suburban neighborhoods often lack connectivity because of fewer four-way
intersections and cul-de-sacs and other dead-end streets; some cul-de-sacs can be
retrofitted to connect, especially for active transportation.
New developments should emphasize four-way intersections and limit or prohibit culde-sacs.
Larger multifamily housing should have multiple connections to the outside network,
and internal streets should be well connected to public streets.

Network density
4•

•5

Street
Connectivity

/6

1

Because of the typically larger lots in suburban neighborhoods, network density will
be lower in suburban neighborhoods than urban neighborhoods, so it is important to
maximize the other aspects of connectivity.
New developments should create a consistent pattern of streets and intersections to
increase predictability and legibility - and create places where future development can
extend this pattern.

STREET CONNECTIVITY STANDARD METRICS FOR SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOODS

4/

10

5
2

1

9 8

/

•7
•8
•9

Incorporate larger land uses like schools and parks as well as commercial blocks into the
overall network pattern.
Dense and mulriple accesses to arterial and collector streets improves access to
destinations.
Placement of destinations in suburban neighborhoods should be optimized for
neighborhood access.
Street curving is often seen as a key suburban attraction, but should be limited.

10
•
11
•
12
•

Consider pedestrian easements and pass-throughs targeted at connecting to specific
destinations.
Suburban neighborhoods often benefit and have opportunities for separated active
transportation networks, such as along canals and creeks.
Large streets bounding suburban neighborhoods can be barriers for active
transportation, so quality and frequent crossings are a key part of connectivity.

ARTERIAL

/

COLLECTOR

/

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

175 intersections per mile

/
/

12

Accommodate all users

Standards for
the four metrics
for the context
type

Intersections per square mile:

Network
Density

3

11
10

/

1.7 links per node

7

Destination access
•6

Connectivity index of all streets:

LOCAL

/

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

/

/
INTERNAL

TRANSIT
AGRICULTURAL/
STOP
NATURAL OPEN SPACE

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING

NEW
DEVELOPMENT

300’

The diagram above shows a reasonably ideal connected network for this context type and
how the issues and considerations can be addressed.

Destination
Access

Accommodate
All Users

Average 1/2 mi travel-shed percentage for key destinations:

100% of travel-shed
Average of highest five pedestrian blocks:

1000 feet maximum
Utah Street Connectivity Guide 67

66 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

CASE STUDY FOR CONTEXT TYPE
SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOOD CASE STUDY: SKYRIDGE HIGH SCHOOL AREA
SR 92

Current connectivity profile
The current profile shows that the Skyridge High School area scores moderately for intersection density and travel shed, but more poorly for general connectivity and
the pedestrian network. Improvements should focus on improving the link-node ratio by creating more four-way intersections and fewer dead ends, especially in new
development. Improvements should also reduce the size of the largest pedestrian blocks, and ensure good pedestrian connections to the school.

Connectivity Index
1.27
55%

Raw score
Percentage of
Standard

Average Destination
Intersection Density Travel-shed %
128
63%
73%
63%

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
2045 feet
49%

3200 W

Church

_
^

Potential Strategies
Plans and Policies

Retrofit strategies

•
Access and circulation plan for high school and surrounding area.
Street & Development Standards

Suggested
connectivity
improvements

SKYRIDGE
SKYRIDGE
HIGH SCHOOL
HIGH SCHOOL
AREA: POTENTIAL
AREA: EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS

Skyridge is a brand-new high school in the northeastern part of Lehi. Much of the neighborhood around it is also new and still being developed. This case study looks at
how a suburban neighborhood can be built to connect to a major destination such as a school and how such a large land use can avoid being a barrier.

8000 W

Description of
the case study
area and existing
connectivity
evaluation

•
•
•
•
•
•

Encourage/incent very small blocks (200 feet) with compatible
land uses.
Maximum block length for new development: 400 feet.
Minimum street connectivity standards for new development: 1.4.
New developments connect to stub streets for future connections.
Where full street connections not possible as extensions of
streets, place pedestrian paths.
Require “fronting” of land uses onto large public uses like parks
and schools.

Skyridge High School

Skyridge HS

_
^

Skyridge High School

•
•
•

Connect longest cul-de-sacs.
Pedestrian pass-throughs to commercial destinations.
Key multi-modal routes to access high school for surrounding
neighborhood, including streets, paths, crossings, wayfinding.
Managing connectivity
•

Manage concerns of school district about increased campus
access.

Eaglecrest ES

_
^

NOTE: This map is not a plan.
It is an example of the street
connectivity changes that could
result from the hypothetical
potential strategies presented
on the previous page.

Improved connectivity profile

Evaluation of
improvements
on metrics

42 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

The potential strategies would produce a network that
improves the connectivity substantially. The network
shown would increase the link-node ratio by nearly 50
percent, bringing the network close to the Suburban
Neighborhood standard. Denser new developments
would increase network density to very close to the
standard.

70 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Raw score (change)
Percentage of Standard

Connectivity
Index
1.39 (+43.5%)
79%

Intersection
Density
168 (+32%)
96%

Average Destination
Travel-shed %
79% (+25%)
79%

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
1190 feet (-42%)
84%

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination
0

0.1

0.2

Miles
0.4

New node

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 71

Map of what
suggested
improvements
might look like.
NOTE: This is
not a plan, only
hypothetical.

REGIONAL-SCALE STREET CONNECTIVITY

While this guide does not explore regional-level connectivity as much as
community- and neighborhood-level connectivity (in the following pages), here are
some considerations for planning for street connectivity at the regional level:

Street connectivity:
•

•

•

Network density
•

Regional street networks are almost always connected – there
are very few dead-end arterials or freeways. However, it is helpful
when arterials form four-way intersections.
One very important aspect of regional aspect of regional networks
is their ability for modes to complement one another – specifically
roadways, passenger rail, and freight. This includes planning how
each will serve the same destinations, if needed, and complement
one another in a set of corridors.
Regional networks must contend with large scale geographic
features such as mountains and bodies of water. At this scale,
network connectivity should often be subordinate to the health of
natural systems such as habitat and watersheds.
Network density is critical for regional networks. When regional
networks are not dense enough, the streets carrying regional traffic through an area becomes a major barrier for the community
and a bottleneck for mobility along it.

Destination Access
•

Regional networks become denser and more complex the closer
they get to key destinations – such as employment, education or
entertainment hubs. The closer to these hubs regional networks
get, the more important it is to accommodate all modes of transportation.

Accommodate all users
•
•

One of the aspects of a regional network is its ability to scale
down to a community, neighborhood or district
Regional networks must balance moving people long distances
with not becoming barriers to connectivity at the community and
neighborhood/district scales.

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 43

Community-scale connectivity

URBAN COMMUNITIES

STREET CONNECTIVITY ISSUES AND CONSIDERATIONS
FOR URBAN COMMUNITIES

An urban community is a city or other local jurisdiction with higher overall
density, a high degree of intersecting regional transportation facilities and regional
destinations, and a high degree of land use mix.

Street connectivity
•1
•2
3
•
4
•

Community-scale networks (collectors and above) in urban communities in Utah often
reflect historic grid patterns put in place before the automobile.
Community-scale networks in urban communities are generally more connected than
suburban or rural communities. Urban communities in Utah typically have a grid of
collector and arterial level streets with four-way intersections.
Regional transportation facilities like freeways, other highways, or railways can be
a barrier to community scale connectivity in urban communities - efforts should be
focused to overcome these, especially for pedestrians and bicyclists.
Urban communities, as the homes of regional destinations, often must move high
amounts of traffic, creating the need for large streets that can challenge community
connectivity.

6 /

/

3

/
3

/

6
•

3

/

/

/

/

4

/

9/
5

/

8
•
9
•
•
10

1

12

/ /
7

/

/ 8 /

11

/

/

10

Urban communities generally have a higher degree of mix of land uses, and
consequently have less hierarchy in their street networks than suburban or rural
communities, so that more streets are classified as collector-level and above. This means
more community-scale network density.
Some areas of urban communities – such as those around campus districts like
secondary education institutions, hospitals, and shopping centers – can reduce overall
network density.

Destination access
7
•

2

/

Network density
5
•

/

Urban communities generally possess more regionally-attractive destinations than other
types of communities – such as downtowns, educational campuses, shopping areas,
sports and entertainment, and cultural attractions.
The highly connected networks in urban communities generally lead to good
destination access for the community.
Transit stops and stations are important urban community destinations.
It is important to pair regional destinations and regional transportation facilities to
maximize connection to these destinations.

44 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

/

/

ARTERIAL
FREEWAY/
INTERCHANGE

/

DOWNTOWN

COLLECTOR

/

MAJOR EMPLOYMENT or
EDUCATION CENTER

/

RAIL LINE

/

MAJOR RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

/

TRANSIT
STATION

OPEN SPACE

1 mile

The diagram above shows a reasonably ideal connected network for this context type and
how the issues and considerations can be addressed.

Accommodate all users
11
•

•
12

Urban communities are in a good position to create complete streets for all modes.
The high network density of community-level streets provides opportunities for
emphasizing different modes on parallel streets. For example, while one street may
emphasize moving traffic, another nearby parallel route may be a slower street for bikes
– but they are part of the same general “corridor.”

STREET CONNECTIVITY STANDARD METRICS FOR URBAN COMMUNITIES

Street
Connectivity

Network
Density

Connectivity index of all streets:

2.0 links per node
Intersections per square mile:

7 intersections per
square mile

Destination
Access

Average 2-mile travel-shed percentage for key destinations:

Accommodate
All Users

Percentage of 1/2 mile walk-shed from key destinations:

100% of travel-shed
100% of walk-shed
Utah Street Connectivity Guide 45

URBAN COMMUNITY CASE STUDY: LEHI
Lehi is a fast-growing city in Utah County with several developing centers of activity - especially the Thanksgiving Point area. Lehi would currently likely be a Suburban
Community, but Lehi’s potential growth, its activity hubs, and location could put it in the Urban Community category. The Wasatch Front’s central transportation corridor,
including I-15 and rail lines, splits the city. The east-west corridor of S.R. 92 is a growing transportation corridor.

Current connectivity profile
For the Lehi community, the basic metrics were evaluated, as well as one of the advanced measures (travel-sheds). For Suburban Community standards, Lehi would score
very well, however, against an Urban Community standard, it has some room for improvement, especially with regard to overcoming major barriers like I-15 and connecting
its evolving activity centers together.
Connectivity Index
1.70
70%

Raw score
Percentage of
Standard

Intersection Density
4.88
70%

Potential Strategies

Street & Development Standards

Plans and Policies
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

•

Explicit general plan policies supporting street connectivity.
Policies to design for all users.
Policies encouraging redundant and direct connections to
destinations.
Connections to outside jurisdictions.
Key connections plan for city.
Plan for greater SR-92 corridor that emphasizes connections
between Thanksgiving Point and points east to allow movement
across SR-92.
Preferred network types for undeveloped areas: In the west,
balance the buildout of the grid with the preservation of Jordan
River. In the north, balance the grid connectivity with topography
constraints.

Maximum major street spacing (arterials, collector or similar) – 2,000
feet.
Retrofit strategies
•

Connect all dead-end streets in community-wide network (collectors
and above).
•
Increased connections among the activity centers in and along
Downtown, 2100 North, and Thanksgiving Point.
•
Create additional pedestrian crossings on SR-92.
Managing connectivity
•
•
•

Traffic Calming Measures.
Transit-Friendly Design – use network to increase transit speed and
accessibility.
Complete Streets policy – ensure networks for all modes.

Improved connectivity profile
The potential strategies could produce a network that
improves the connectivity substantially. The network
shown would improve both the overall connectivity
and the network density of Lehi by 30 and 42 percent
respectively, nearly bringing Lehi to the Urban
Community standards.

46 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Raw score (change)
Percentage of
Standard

Connectivity Index
1.89 (+30%)
94%

Intersection Density
6.94 (+42%)
99%

LEHI: POTENTIAL
LEHI: EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS
NOTE: This map is not a plan.
It is an example of the street
connectivity changes that could
result from the hypothetical
potential strategies presented
on the previous page.

SR-92

1200 E.

SR-68

I-1

5

Lehi

2100 N.

2300 W.
MAIN ST.

PIONEER

CROSSIN

G

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
New Link

Existing node - Intersection
New node - Intersection

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination
0

0.75

1.5

Miles
3

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 47

Benefit modeling results
Using modeling techniques, the project team estimated the likely benefits of the
potential Lehi Community street connectivity improvements resulting from the
strategies shown on page 46 and shown on the map on page 47.
Traffic performance
The existing Lehi street network was modified with the added connections shown
in the map. To make a comparison to the existing condition, the same origins and
destinations were used for traffic assignment in the new network. Using outputs
from VISUM traffic models, the networks were compared for the total length (both
directions), 3-hour traffic volumes, free-flow and actual network travel times, as
well as delays and vehicle-miles traveled (VMT). A comparison of traffic volumes
and VMTs for some of the main arterials and collector streets was also performed.
The project team concluded the following about the traffic performance of
potential connectivity improvements:
• Connectivity improvements increased the total length of the Lehi network for
30 percent, but the actual travel time reduced in the improved network by 13
percent. This is attributed to more direct, faster connections between points in
the network, and also by the introduction of new connections over the freeway.
• Total delay, computed as the difference between the free flow and actual travel
times, reduced 24 percent in the better connected network.
• Total volumes traversing the network and VMTs are slightly reduced in the
connectivity improvement scenario.
• A significant decrease in volumes and VMTs was observed in the connected
scenario. The volumes were distributed to other connections, relieving the
arterials a giving a better distribution of traffic flows in the network.
The connectivity improvements’ impact on traffic performance was also compared
to a road widening scenario:
• The 25 percent lane-miles increase in the street connectivity scenario was
about twice as much as in the street widening scenario.
• Street widening resulted in about the same actual travel time as improved
connectivity, but the delay reduction was higher in the street connectivity
scenario (24 percent vs. 17 percent).
• The increase in the average street and total network capacity in the street
widening and connectivity scenarios was the same, about 13 percent.
• The widened streets attracted between 8 and 31 percent more traffic, with a
similar increase in VMTs.

48 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Active transportation and associated benefits
The active transportation modeling analysis estimated the number of bicycle and
walking trips that would result from an increase in bicycle and pedestrian mode
share, approximated the corresponding reduction in vehicle trips and vehiclemiles traveled (VMT), and assessed the potential health, environmental, and
transportation-related benefits. These benefits include bike and walk trips, hours
of physical activity, recommended physical activity minimum met, healthcare cost
savings, CO2 and other emissions reduced, vehicle emission costs reduced, annual
VMT Reduced, reduced traffic congestion costs, reduced vehicle crash costs,
reduced road maintenance costs, and household vehicle operation cost savings.

The estimates of active transportation benefits were generated by analysis of
a set of peer cities to Lehi that have connectivity levels similar to the potential
improvements shown for Lehi as well as high walking and bike mode shares.
These cities included Beaverton, OR; Bellevue, WA; Menlo Park, CA; Palo Alto, CA;
Redmond, WA; Salt Lake City, UT; and West Sacramento, CA.
Based on these peer cities, implementing connectivity improvements could lead to
increases in biking mode shares from a current base of .25 percent to between 1.1
and 5.2 percent; and increases in walking mode shares from a current base of .85
percent to between 3.2 and 5.3 percent.
If levels of connectivity similar to the peer cities are reached and these active
commute mode shares increase to the estimates based on peer cities’ mode
shares, the study area could experience between $2,477,000 and $8,254,000 in
additional health, environmental, and transportation-related benefits every year.

Comparison of Lehi Existing Network;
Connectivity Improvements; and Street Widening
40
35
30
25
20
Actual travel time (hours)

Delay (hours)

3 hour vehicle miles traveled
(x10,000)

Existing Network

Connectivity improvements

Street Widening

Sales
Economic modeling measured the impact of the potential connectivity
improvements for Lehi on sales. In the west side of the city, where many of the
potential improvements were located, there is very little development currently
and limited retail. However, this area is poised for new development and these
connections will be vital to the economic success and quality of life of the area.
Additional connections were made in the center of the city, providing quicker
access to retail establishments. Improvements were also made in the northern
part of the study area, while there isn’t much retail here, quicker access to existing
nodes was improved.
From the connectivity improvements, potential impacts to retail sectors were
calculated. Grocery stores have the potential to increase sales by 0.8 percent,
while warehouse clubs and supercenters could see a similar impact of 0.7
percent. Gas stations could experience an increase of 0.5 percent in sales. Limited
service restaurants could see an additional 0.8 percent increase while full-service
restaurants could see a slight increase of 0.1 percent.
For context, if these percentages were applied to actual sales for Lehi in 2015,
an additional $2.6 million in sales could have occurred. Warehouse clubs and
supercenters could experience and additional $1.2 million in sales, while grocery
stores and restaurants could both experience close to $650,000 in additional sales.
Gas stations could experience and additional $98,000 in annual sales.

Modeling showed that these improvements could:

• Reduce traffic delay by 24 percent
• Increase the amount of walking by up to 20 times
• Increase retail sales by $2.6 million
• Add up to $7.4 million of transportation, health, and environmental
benefits

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 49

SUBURBAN COMMUNITIES

A suburban community is a city or other local jurisdiction with medium overall
density, fewer regional transportation facilities and regional destinations, and a
lower degree of land use mix.

STREET CONNECTIVITY ISSUES AND CONSIDERATIONS
FOR SUBURBAN COMMUNITIES

Street connectivity
•1
•2

3
•
4
•
5
•

Community-scale networks in suburban communities often build on historic rural grids
or other patterns, which can have high levels of connectivity.
Many suburban communities have historic downtowns and neighborhoods with dense,
connected street grids. Community street connectivity can be increased by extending
these connected street patterns to newer development areas adjacent to the historic
areas.
Community-level suburban streets often have not been built to connect among
subdivision projects. New developments should provide stub streets for collector-level
(and local-level) streets so these connections can be made.
Similarly, apart from historic roads, streets often do not connect among different
jurisdictions. Regional and inter-jurisdictional planning efforts should identify and
encourage these connections.
Regional transportation facilities that bisect suburban communities can be major
barriers to connectivity – efforts should be focused to overcome these.

7

/

/

5

/
/
/ 10
4

6
1

12

13

11

/

/
8

9

/
2

Network density
•
6

Because of an unplanned pattern of growth in formerly rural areas, suburban
communities often have few community-scale streets that connect over long distances.
This tends to concentrate community and regional traffic on a small number of streets.

Destination access
•
7
8
•

Suburban communities often contain regional-level destinations such as educational
campuses, employment centers, and shopping and entertainment centers.
Suburban communities often feature a central light rail or commuter rail station that
should be a focal point for community multi-modal access.

Accommodate all users
•
9

The often-widely spaced community-level streets and the concentration of traffic onto
them presents a challenge for active transportation users. Suburban communities
should seek to make these major streets safe and convenient for all users, and/or to
provide parallel routes that have the same level of community connection and access the
same destinations.

50 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

3

/

4
ARTERIAL
FREEWAY/
INTERCHANGE

/

DOWNTOWN

COLLECTOR

/

MAJOR EMPLOYMENT or
EDUCATION CENTER

RAIL LINE

/

MAJOR RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

/

TRANSIT
STATION

JURISDICTION
BOUNDARY
OPEN SPACE

1 mile

The diagram above shows a reasonably ideal connected network for this context type and
how the issues and considerations can be addressed.
10
•
11
•
12
•
13
•

Transit users should be able to cross and walk along major streets to access transit
services running on them.
Care should be taken to provide complete streets or networks around key community
destinations.
In suburban communities, active transportation connections can raise the effective
connectivity of otherwise disconnected places.
In suburban communities, major land features such as creeks, canals, agricultural
preserves, and hilly or mountainous areas can be opportunities for community-wide
active transportation corridors.

STREET CONNECTIVITY STANDARD METRICS FOR SUBURBAN COMMUNITIES

Street
Connectivity

Network
Density

Connectivity index of collector-or-above streets:

1.8 links per node
Collector-or-above intersections per square mile:

5 intersections per
square mile

Destination
Access

Average 2-mile travel-shed percentage for key destinations:

Accommodate
All Users

Percentage of 1/2 mile walk-shed from key destinations:

100% of travel-shed
100% of walk-shed
Utah Street Connectivity Guide 51

SUBURBAN COMMUNITY CASE STUDY: LAYTON
Layton is a suburban city in Davis County just south of Ogden. Layton has both established neighborhoods in the eastern, hilly areas against the Wasatch Mountains, and
newer neighborhoods in growth areas near the Great Salt Lake shorelands to the west. The Wasatch Front’s central transportation corridor, including I-15 and rail lines,
splits the city.

Current connectivity profile
For the Layton community, the basic metrics were evaluated, as well as one of the advanced measures (travel-sheds). Layton has room for improvement in all the metrics
evaluated, especially in the hilly eastern area of the city and the growing western area. In general, intersection density is more of a need than general connectivity –
improving both of these will likely improve destination access.
Connectivity Index
1.62
77%

Raw score
Percentage of
Standard

Intersection Density
3.42
68%

Potential Strategies

Retrofit strategies

Plans and Policies

•

•
•
•

Explicit general plan policies supporting street connectivity.
Policies to design for all users.
Policies encouraging redundant and direct connections to destinations.
•
Connections to outside jurisdictions.
•
Key connections plan for city.
Street & Development Standards
•

Maximum major street spacing (arterials, collector or similar) –
2,000 feet.

Connect all dead-end streets in community-wide network (collectors and above).
•
Create a north-south connection in eastern Layton between Fairfield Road and Church Street.
•
Increase the density of the network in the historic downtown/
FrontRunner area.
•
Create connections between Layton Commons area and Mall area.
•
Connect the different network types: build out the diagonal and
orthogonal grids to connect streets.
Managing connectivity
•
•
•

Traffic Calming Measures.
Transit-Friendly Design – use network to increase transit speed
and accessibility.
Complete Streets policy – ensure networks for all modes.

Improved connectivity profile
The potential strategies would produce a network
that improves the connectivity substantially. The
network shown would improve both the overall
connectivity and the network density of Layton by
26 and 47 percent respectively, bringing Layton to
near the Suburban Community standards.

52 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Raw score (change)
Percentage of
Standard

Connectivity Index
1.78 (+26%)
97%

Intersection Density
5.05 (+47%)
101%

LAYTON:
LAYTON:
POTENTIAL
EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS

5
I-1
ANTELOPE DR.

US-89

2200 W.

3200 W.

Layton

1000 N.

_
^

FAIRFIELD RD.

_
^

GENTILE ST.

_
^

5
I-1

NOTE: This map is not a plan.
It is an example of the street
connectivity changes that could
result from the hypothetical
potential strategies presented
on the previous page.

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination
0

0.5

1

Miles
2

New node

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 53

Benefit modeling results
Using modeling techniques, the project team estimated the likely benefits of the
potential Layton Community street connectivity improvements resulting from the
strategies shown on page 52 and shown on the map on page 53.
Traffic performance
The existing Layton street network was modified with the added connections
shown in the map. To make a comparison to the existing condition, the same
origins and destinations were used for traffic assignment in the new network. Using
outputs from VISUM traffic models, the networks were compared for the total
length (both directions), 3-hour traffic volumes, free-flow and actual network travel
times, as well as delays and vehicle-miles traveled (VMT). A comparison of traffic
volumes and VMTs for some of the main arterials and collector streets was also
performed.
The project team concluded the following about the traffic performance of
potential connectivity improvements:
• The actual travel times, as well as the total delays, were reduced 4 percent and
9 percent respectively, showing the benefits of better connectivity on network
mobility.
• A small reduction in VMTs was also observed on the network level.
• A reduction in volumes was also observed along most arterials, except 700
South and Layton Parkway.
• The VMTs along all arterial are reduced, ranging from very small reductions of
1% to significant ones of more than 20 percent.
The connectivity improvements’ impact on traffic performance was also compared
to a road widening scenario:
• Street widening resulted in about the same actual travel time and delay
reduction as improved connectivity.
• Although the average street capacity reduced 7 percent in the street
connectivity scenario, the total network capacity increased more than 10
percent.
• The increase in the average street and total network capacity in the street
widening scenario was the same, about 4 percent.
• The widened streets attracted more traffic, changing the traffic distribution in
the network.
• Improved street connectivity reduced volumes and VMTs along analyzed streets
by 8 to 10 percent, more than the street widening scenario (2 to 3 percent).

54 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Active transportation and associated benefits
The active transportation modeling analysis estimated the number of bicycle and
walking trips that would result from an increase in bicycle and pedestrian mode
share, approximated the corresponding reduction in vehicle trips and vehiclemiles traveled (VMT), and assessed the potential health, environmental, and
transportation-related benefits. These benefits include bike and walk trips, hours
of physical activity, recommended physical activity minimum met, healthcare cost
savings, CO2 and other emissions reduced, vehicle emission costs reduced, annual
VMT Reduced, reduced traffic congestion costs, reduced vehicle crash costs,
reduced road maintenance costs, and household vehicle operation cost savings.
The estimates of active transportation benefits were generated by analysis of a
set of peer cities to Layton that have connectivity levels similar to the potential
improvements shown for Layton as well as high walking and bike mode shares.
These cities included Albany, OR; Claremont, CA; Edina, MN ; Goshen, IN; Portage,
MI; Redmond, WA; and West Sacramento, CA.
Based on these peer cities, implementing connectivity improvements could lead to
increases in biking mode shares from a current base of .17 percent to between .75
and 1.7 percent; and increases in walking mode shares from a current base of 1.26
percent to up to 2.9 percent.
If levels of connectivity similar to the peer cities are reached and the active
commute mode shares increase to low, mid, or high estimates based on peer cities’
mode shares, the study area could experience between $1,610,000 and $5,671,000
in additional health, environmental, and transportation-related benefits every year.

Comparison of Layton Existing Network;
Connectivity Improvements; and Street Widening
55
50
45
40
35
30
25
Actual travel time (hours)
Existing

Delay (hours)

Connectivity improvements

3 hour vehicle miles traveled
(x10,000)
Street Widening

Sales
Economic modeling measured the impact of the potential connectivity
improvements for Layton on sales. There were major improvements throughout
Layton, especially on the east side of the city. Major connections were made
inside residential neighborhoods. Additionally, some of these connections directly
improved access to retail nodes. As a result of these improvements, study retail
sectors saw major increase in market accessibility within the 7-minute drive time.
From the connectivity improvements, potential impacts to retail sectors were
calculated. Warehouse clubs and supercenters have the potential to increase their
sales by 1.4 percent. Supermarkets and grocery stores could see an increase of 0.9
percent, gas stations could see similar impacts with the opportunity to increase
sales by 0.8 percent. Limited and Full service restaurants saw almost no change.
For context, if these percentages were applied to actual sales for Layton in 2015,
an additional $4.9 million in sales could have occurred. The largest impact was
seen in Warehouse clubs and Supercenter retailers such as Wal-Mart/Target. These
types of retailers could have seen an additional $3.7 million in sales across the city.
Grocery store could see an additional $800,000 while restaurants could experience
an additional $200,000 in sales and gas stations an additional $163,000.

Modeling showed that these improvements could:

• Reduce traffic delay by 8.5 percent
• Double the amount of walking
• Increase retail sales by $4.9 million
• Add up to $4.2 million of transportation, health, and environmental
benefits

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 55

RURAL COMMUNITIES

A rural community is a city or other local jurisdiction with low density, relatively
isolated from other communities, and a high degree of agricultural, mountain land
or other natural open space within the community.

STREET CONNECTIVITY ISSUES AND CONSIDERATIONS
FOR RURAL COMMUNITIES

Street connectivity
•1
•2

•
3

Community-level networks in rural areas generally consist of regional highways and
historic farm roads. These links are often highly connected, with four-way intersections.
However, subdivisions that branch off these major streets are often only connected
at one point, which prevents community-level connectivity from evolving with the
community growth. This new development should be planned for multiple connections
to the larger network.
In rural areas, it is important to understand the community’s plan for future growth
and preservation, so that the right level of connections among subdivisions and among
jurisdictions can be made.

7

/

/

6
5

/

/

Network density
4
•

1

The low density of rural communities can lead to low community-level street network
density. However, with planning, the development of properly-spaced and connected
collectors and arterials can be coordinated with community growth.

2

4

/

3

/

Destination access
•
5

Rural communities often contain regional recreational destinations such as ski areas,
trail systems, and sports parks. The network should prioritize connections to these
destinations.

Accommodate all users
6
•

•
7

The often-widely spaced community-level streets and the often-high speed traffic on
them presents a challenge for active transportation users. Rural communities should
seek to make these major streets safe and convenient for all users, and/or to provide
parallel routes that have the same level of community connection and access the same
destinations.
Rural highways often present barriers to active transportation users, requiring safe,
visible and convenient at-grade or grade-separated crossings of active transportation
paths or routes across these highways.

56 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

ARTERIAL
FREEWAY/
INTERCHANGE

/

DOWNTOWN

COLLECTOR

/

MAJOR EMPLOYMENT or
EDUCATION CENTER

RAIL LINE

/

MAJOR RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

/

TRANSIT
STATION

JURISDICTION
BOUNDARY
OPEN SPACE

1 mile

The diagram above shows a reasonably ideal connected network for this context type and
how the issues and considerations can be addressed.

STREET CONNECTIVITY STANDARD METRICS FOR RURAL COMMUNITIES

Street
Connectivity

Network
Density

Connectivity index of collector-or-above streets:

1.6 links per node
Collector-or-above intersections per square mile:

3 intersections per
square mile

Destination
Access

Average 2-mile travel-shed percentage for key destinations:

Accommodate
All Users

Percentage of 1/2 mile walk-shed from key destinations:

100% of travel-shed
100% of walk-shed
Utah Street Connectivity Guide 57

RURAL COMMUNITY CASE STUDY: TOOELE VALLEY COMMUNITY
Tooele Valley is a broad Great Basin valley on the other side of the Oquirrh Mountains from Salt Lake Valley. The area of Tooele Valley being evaluated in this case study
contains much of the valley’s population outside the unincorporated communities of Tooele and Grantsville and covers the area roughly between Tooele City and Interstate
80. These unincorporated communities include Erda, Stansbury Park, and Lake Point. The area is predominantly rural but is growing steadily with housing development.

Current connectivity profile
For the Tooele Valley community, the basic metrics were evaluated. The evaluation reveals that Tooele Valley’s existing network is very well connected but has a low
intersection density, so improvements should focus on densifying the network while still maintaining a high link-node ratio (connectivity index).
Connectivity Index
1.74
124%

Raw score
Percentage of
Standard

Intersection Density
1.09
36%

Potential Strategies

Street & Development Standards

Plans and Policies
•
•
•
•
•

•

Explicit general plan policies supporting street connectivity.
Policies to design for all users.
Policies encouraging multiple/ direct connections to destinations.
Connections to outside jurisdictions.
Key connections plan for city.

Maximum major street spacing (arterials, collector or similar) –
Half mile.
Retrofit strategies
•

Connect all dead-end streets in community-wide network (collectors and above).
Managing connectivity
•
•

Traffic Calming Measures.
Complete Streets policy – ensure networks for all modes.

Improved connectivity profile
For Tooele Valley, both a near-term plan and a long-term plan were
assessed in terms of the basic connectivity metrics. Over the combined
time frames, the potential strategies would produce a network that
improves the connectivity substantially. With the network already
achieving link-node ratio standards for the Rural Community context, the
improvements largely focus on increasing the network density without
losing the level of connectivity. The networks shown would improve the
network density in the near term and long term, eventually bringing Tooele
Valley to the Rural Community standards at build-out.

58 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Near Term

Long Term

Raw score (change)
Percentage of
Standard
Raw score (change)
Percentage of
Standard

Connectivity
Index
1.68 (-8.2%)
105%

Intersection
Density
1.77 (+62.1%)
59%

1.76 (+2.3%)
110%

3.12 (186.2%)
104%

SR
-

36

TOOELE VALLEY: POTENTIAL
EXISTING CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY IMPROVEMENTS

I-80

8

-12

SR

SR-36

BATES CANYON RD.

DROBAY RD.

Tooele Valley Community Scale

NOTE: This map is not a plan.
It is an example of the street
connectivity changes that could
result from the hypothetical
potential strategies presented
on the previous page.

ERDA WAY

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link

Existing node - Intersection

Transportation Plan Link

Transportation Plan node

Additional link

Additional node

Existing node - Dead end

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Destination
0

0.75

1.5

Miles
3

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 59

Benefit modeling results
Using modeling techniques, the project team estimated the likely benefits of the
potential Tooele Community street connectivity improvements resulting from the
strategies shown on page 58 and shown on the map on page 59. Only the first
phase of improvements were analyzed.
Traffic performance
The existing Tooele street network was modified with the added connections
shown in the map. To make a comparison to the existing condition, the same
origins and destinations were used for traffic assignment in the new network. Using
outputs from VISUM traffic models, the networks were compared for the total
length (both directions), 3-hour traffic volumes, free-flow and actual network travel
times, as well as delays and vehicle-miles traveled (VMT). A comparison of traffic
volumes and VMTs for some of the main arterials and collector streets was also
performed.
The project team concluded the following about the traffic performance of
potential connectivity improvements:
• In this case, the actual travel time in the new network increased from the
existing network, but the total delay reduced about 18 percent.
• About 10 percent higher volumes, with a slight increase in VMTs, were also
observed in this network. This is due to the major changes in the network
layout, much more than in the other two case studies, since the total network
length increased more than 50 percent.
• This caused major changes in traffic flow patterns, including significant
reductions in traffic volumes and VMTs for almost all arterials and major
collectors.
The connectivity improvements’ impact on traffic performance was also compared
to a road widening scenario:
• The total delay in both scenarios was comparable.
• The average street and the total network capacity increased 5 and 11 percent
respectively in the street connectivity scenario, compared to a 3 percent
increase in both cases in the street widening scenario.
• The improved street connectivity scenario saw reduced total volumes and VMTs
along analyzed streets by 9 to 10 percent, compared to a 2 percent increase in
volumes in the widening scenario. This again shows a much better distribution
of traffic flows in a better connected network.

Active transportation and associated benefits
The active transportation modeling analysis estimated the number of bicycle and
walking trips that would result from an increase in bicycle and pedestrian mode
share, approximated the corresponding reduction in vehicle trips and vehiclemiles traveled (VMT), and assessed the potential health, environmental, and
transportation-related benefits. These benefits include bike and walk trips, hours
of physical activity, recommended physical activity minimum met, healthcare cost
savings, CO2 and other emissions reduced, vehicle emission costs reduced, annual
VMT Reduced, reduced traffic congestion costs, reduced vehicle crash costs,
reduced road maintenance costs, and household vehicle operation cost savings.
The estimates of active transportation benefits were generated by analysis of
a set of peer cities to Tooele Valley that have connectivity levels similar to the
potential improvements shown for Tooele Valley as well as high walking and bike
mode shares. These cities included Summit County, UT; Garfield County, CO; Grand
County, UT; Driggs, ID; and Teton County, ID.
Based on these peer cities, implementing connectivity improvements could lead to
increases in biking mode shares from a current base of .33 percent to between 1.3
and 2.4 percent; and increases in walking mode shares from a current base of 2.5
percent to up to 5.3 percent.
If levels of connectivity similar to the peer cities and counties are reached and
the active commute mode shares increase to low, mid, or high estimates based
on peer cities and counties’ mode shares, the study area could experience
between $1,321,000 and $4,421,000 in additional health, environmental, and
transportation-related benefits every year.

Comparison of Tooele Valley Existing Network;
Connectivity Improvements; and Street Widening
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
Actual travel time (hours)
Existing

60 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Delay (hours)

Connectivity improvements

3 hour vehicle miles traveled
(x10,000)
Street Widening

Sales
Economic modeling measured the impact of the potential connectivity
improvements for Tooele Valley on sales. The majority of unincorporated Tooele
Valley’s retail businesses are located near Tooele City limits to the south and near
I-80 to the north. As seen in Figure 5, the majority of the connections were made
in the middle of the study area with little to no retail. However, this increased the
market accessibility of existing retail located along SR-36 to those living further
away from exiting major arterials.
From the connectivity improvements, potential impacts to retail sectors were
calculated. Combined, full and limited service restaurants could see an increase of 4
percent in annual sales. While this may seem drastic, it is important to understand
that the majority of these establishments are located along a single corridor.
Additionally, there are only 33 establishments in the City. With such a small market,
any improvements to traffic flow and market accessibility have significant impacts.
Warehouse Clubs and supercenters saw no change because there is only one of
these in our study area. Grocery stores could see an increase of 0.9 percent, while
gas stations could experience a minimal impact of 0.2 percent.
For context, if these percentages were applied to actual sales for Tooele Valley
in 2015, an additional $1.9 million in sales could have occurred. Full and limited
service restaurants have to potential to add an additional $1.5 million in annual
sales, while grocery stores have the potential to add over $300,000 annually. Gas
stations could see minimal increase in sales, adding just over $20,000, and because
there is only one warehouse club/supercenter establishment, there are no impacts.

Modeling showed that these improvements could:

• Reduce traffic delay by 17 percent
• Double the amount of walking
• Increase retail sales by $1.9 million
• Add up to $2.5 million of transportation, health, and environmental
benefits

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 61

Neighborhood and district connectivity

URBAN RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS

STREET CONNECTIVITY ISSUES AND CONSIDERATIONS
FOR URBAN NEIGHBORHOODS

An urban residential neighborhood is a higher-density residential area with civic,
commercial, and office uses mixed in.

Street connectivity
•1
•2

•
3

Because of the historic pre-automobile nature of many urban neighborhoods, these
areas present favorable conditions for optimizing connectivity. Four-way intersections
are common and dead ends/cul-de-sacs are rare.
New development should preserve pre-existing gridded networks (block consolidation
should be discouraged) and connect to street networks on most or all sides of the
development.
Ensure connections to areas outside of the neighborhood across barriers such as large
roads or rails.

/

/
7

5
•

6
•
•
7

•9
10
•

/

/

/

The smaller lots often found in urban neighborhoods are conducive for higher network
density.
Urban neighborhoods throughout Utah are increasingly taking on more residential
and employment density; street networks in these areas should emphasize access and
connection rather than mobility. For example, intersections should be frequent even
across large arterial streets to emphasize access across them.
Incorporate larger land uses like schools, parks, and commercial centers into the overall
dense network pattern, preserving streets and intersections.
In Utah, even highly connected urban street networks can have low network density
because of large blocks (such as in central Salt Lake City); some of these historic grids
can be made more dense with additional street or active transportation connections.

Urban neighborhoods should provide multiple routes to access destinations by all
modes.
Commercial corridors often provide a focal point of destinations within an urban
neighborhood. Ensure that these “Main” streets and connections to them have an
especially high degree of connectivity and network density.
Transit stops and stations are especially important destinations in urban neighborhoods
and all modes should connect well to transit, especially larger stations.

62 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

7

/

/

11

1

13
12

/

Destination access
•
8

/ /

/

3

Network density
4
•

6 /

/

/

/

/

/

5

/

/

//

/ /

/

/ /

9

/ /8 / / / /

/ /

// / / / /

/ /

10

2

/

/
BRIDGE or
UNDERPASS

/
ARTERIAL

FREEWAY/
INTERCHANGE

/

/

COLLECTOR

/

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

/ /
/

LOCAL

/

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

/

TRANSIT
STOP

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING

OPEN SPACE

NEW
DEVELOPMENT

4

RAIL TRACKS

300’

The diagram above shows a reasonably ideal connected network for this context type and
how the issues and considerations can be addressed.

Accommodate all users
11
•
12
•

•
13

Network density in urban neighborhoods is most vital for pedestrians – a dense, connected
network for people on foot is the highest connectivity priority here.
Pedestrian ways, greenways, and linear parks can enhance networks in urban
neighborhoods, but be careful that pedestrian ways do not take energy and vibrancy away
from streets.
The major barriers for pedestrians in urban neighborhoods are often large streets; care
should be taken to provide frequent, convenient, and safe crossings across arterial streets.

STREET CONNECTIVITY STANDARD METRICS FOR URBAN NEIGHBORHOODS

Street
Connectivity

Network
Density

Destination
Access

Accommodate
All Users

Connectivity index of all streets:

1.7 links per node
Intersections per square mile:

225 intersections per mile
Average 1/2 mi travel-shed percentage for key destinations:

100% of travel-shed
Average of highest five pedestrian blocks:

500 feet maximum
Utah Street Connectivity Guide 63

URBAN NEIGHBORHOOD CASE STUDY: LAYTON DOWNTOWN
Layton’s central district includes a mix of uses and popular destinations, such as Main Street, the civic campus, Layton High School, Layton Commons, a FrontRunner station,
shopping areas, and residential neighborhoods. Street connectivity is challenged by I-15 running through the middle of the area, as well as the railroad tracks. The district’s
sub-areas also lack connections to one another yet the mix of uses, amenities, and destinations here provide the foundation for a connected urban neighborhood.

Current connectivity profile
The current profile shows how Downtown Layton is relatively well-connected to its key destinations, but otherwise scores poorly. Improvements should focus on increasing
the density of the general street network and the pedestrian network in particular.

Connectivity Index
1.36
51%

Raw score
Percentage of
Standard

Average Destination
Intersection Density Travel-shed %
60
73%
27%
73%

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
2486 feet
20%

Potential Strategies
Plans and Policies

Retrofit strategies

•

Develop a “key connections” plan for the area as an amendment to
the Downtown Plan that includes identifying 3-way intersections to
convert to 4-way intersections, the creation of new access points
to Civic Campus and Park from the west, and identifying a desired
connection at FrontRunner station across the tracks.
•
Implement Kays Creek trail plan.
•
Build on Downtown Plan to create complete streets.
Street & Development Standards
•
•
•

Standards for high network density in infill areas (300 foot
minimum block lengths).
Standards for very high connectivity index (1.7).
Streets in new developments to align with existing streets to create
4-way intersections.

•

Work with school districts for pedestrian paths through large
campuses.
•
Build paths through park to connect civic center to neighborhoods
to south and west.
•
Leverage existing I-15 overpasses by improving them for all modes.
•
Where full streets not possible over barriers or between different
sub-districts, build pedestrian pass-throughs.
Managing connectivity
•

Create complete streets in Downtown Layton area and in I-15
crossings.

Improved connectivity profile
The potential strategies would produce a network that
improves the connectivity substantially, yet, because
the standards for an urban neighborhood are so high,
the network changes to downtown Layton would
only get it to about 50 percent of the standards for
the basic metrics. The improvement was nearly all in
the realm of intersection density, while maintaining a
similar level of connectivity.

64 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Raw score (change)
Percentage of Standard

Connectivity
Index
1.36 (+2%)
52%

Average Destination
Intersection Density Travel-shed %
117 (+95%)
81% (+11%)
52%
81%

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
1855 feet (-25%)
27%

DOWNTOWN
DOWNTOWNLAYTON:
LAYTON:
POTENTIAL
EXISTING CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS

Central Davis JHS

_
^
MA

Layton HS

.
ST
Downtown Area

FORT LN.

IN

_
^

Downtown Area

GENTILE ST.

Layton FrontRunner

_
^

I-15

NOTE: This map is not a plan.
It is an example of the street
connectivity changes that could
result from the hypothetical
potential strategies presented
on the previous page.

Head

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, US
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination
New node

Existing transit
stop/station

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 65

SUBURBAN RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS

A lower-density residential area with other types of uses typically found on nearby
arterial corridors

STREET CONNECTIVITY ISSUES AND CONSIDERATIONS
FOR SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOODS

Street connectivity
•
1
2
•

3•

Suburban neighborhoods often lack connectivity because of fewer four-way
intersections and cul-de-sacs and other dead-end streets; some cul-de-sacs can be
retrofitted to connect, especially for active transportation.
New developments should emphasize four-way intersections and limit or prohibit culde-sacs.
Larger multifamily housing should have multiple connections to the outside network,
and internal streets should be well connected to public streets.

Network density
4•

•5

/6

1

Because of the typically larger lots in suburban neighborhoods, network density will
be lower in suburban neighborhoods than urban neighborhoods, so it is important to
maximize the other aspects of connectivity.
New developments should create a consistent pattern of streets and intersections to
increase predictability and legibility - and create places where future development can
extend this pattern.

4/

10

5
2

1

7

9 8

/

Destination access
•6
•7
•8
•9

Incorporate larger land uses like schools and parks as well as commercial blocks into the
overall network pattern.
Dense and multiple accesses to arterial and collector streets improves access to
destinations.
Placement of destinations in suburban neighborhoods should be optimized for
neighborhood access.
Street curving is often seen as a key suburban attraction, but should be limited.

Accommodate all users
10
•
11
•
12
•

Consider pedestrian easements and pass-throughs targeted at connecting to specific
destinations.
Suburban neighborhoods often benefit and have opportunities for separated active
transportation networks, such as along canals and creeks.
Large streets bounding suburban neighborhoods can be barriers for active
transportation, so quality and frequent crossings are a key part of connectivity.

66 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

3

11
10

/

/
/

12

ARTERIAL

/

COLLECTOR

/

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

LOCAL

/

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

/

/
INTERNAL

TRANSIT
AGRICULTURAL/
STOP
NATURAL OPEN SPACE

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING

NEW
DEVELOPMENT

300’

The diagram above shows a reasonably ideal connected network for this context type and
how the issues and considerations can be addressed.

STREET CONNECTIVITY STANDARD METRICS FOR SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOODS

Street
Connectivity

Network
Density

Destination
Access

Accommodate
All Users

Connectivity index of all streets:

1.5 links per node
Intersections per square mile:

175 intersections per mile
Average 1/2 mi travel-shed percentage for key destinations:

100% of travel-shed
Average of highest five pedestrian blocks:

1000 feet maximum
Utah Street Connectivity Guide 67

SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOOD CASE STUDY: LAYTON PARKWAY AND ANGEL STREET
This area of Layton is located in the southwestern part of the city. It was traditionally an agricultural area, but recent growth has infilled residential subdivisions into the
historic farm grid. Cul-de-sacs are a common subdivision feature. However, this case study looks at how these popular cul-de-sacs can be limited and managed in the future
with only very targeted changes to existing cul-de-sacs that increase active transportation access to destinations.

Current connectivity profile
The current profile shows how Downtown Layton is relatively well-connected to its key destinations, but otherwise scores poorly. Improvements should focus on increasing
the density of the general street network and the pedestrian network in particular.

Connectivity Index
1.27
53%

Raw score
Percentage of
Standard

Average Destination
Intersection Density Travel-shed %
84
62%
48%
62%

Potential Strategies
Plans and Policies
•
•

Plans and policies to coordinate streets to connect with Kaysville.
Policy for preferred types of street networks for new
developments.
•
Implement Parks Plan proposed trails.
•
Locate future community/commercial/mixed-use centers at
connected places – such as 3-way intersections.
Street & Development Standards
•
•
•

Minimum connectivity standard of 1.5.
Minimum block lengths of 400 feet, including arterials.
Manage cul-de-sacs:
o Limit cul-de-sacs to 20% of streets.
o Limit the maximum length of cul-de-sacs to 200 feet.

Improved connectivity profile

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
2832 feet
35%

•
Require a pedestrian/bike connection for each cul-de-sac.
•
Multiple new development accesses to arterial/collector streets.
•
Street stub requirements.
Retrofit strategies
•
•

Pedestrian/bike connection from cul-de-sac to school.
Pedestrian connections across Layton Parkway and into
neighborhoods – e.g. pedestrian connection to Weaver Lane.
•
Better connections to Prospector rail trail and western spur to
neighborhoods.
•
Integrate the farm street pattern into the new urbanized street
pattern.
Managing connectivity
•

Traffic calming strategies.

This case study also demonstrates how the network also improves in the advanced metrics – new development and key
The potential strategies would produce a network
connections reduced the pedestrian block size by half and the travel-sheds of key destinations increased by 35 percent.
that improves the connectivity substantially. The
network shown would over double the connectivity,
implementing streets in new development that
Connectivity
Intersection
Average Destination
Average Top 5
reduced the number and effects of cul-de-sacs. One
Index
Density
Travel-shed %
Pedestrian Block
lesson of this case study is that a neighborhood can
Raw score (change)
1.59 (+121%)
131 (+56%)
84% (+35%)
909 (-194%)
keep its cul-de-sacs to come degree and still meet
Percentage of Standard
117%
75%
84%
103%
street connectivity standards if the cul-de-sacs are
limited and designed well.

68 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

ANGEL
ST. & PARKWAY:
LAYTON PARKWAY:
EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
ANGEL ST.
& LAYTON
POTENTIAL
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS

TON

LAY
Church

AY
KW
R
PA

Trail Head

_
^
Layton Parkway and Angel St

Arrea
Downtown Area

_
^

Layton Parkway and Angel St

Heritage ES

_
^
N.

L
ER

V
EA

NOTE: This map is not a plan.
It is an example of the street
connectivity changes that could
result from the hypothetical
potential strategies presented
on the previous page.

W

LS

GE

AN
T.

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination
0

New node

0.1

Miles
0.4

0.2

Potential future commercial center

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 69

SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOOD CASE STUDY: SKYRIDGE HIGH SCHOOL AREA
Skyridge is a brand-new high school in the northeastern part of Lehi. Much of the neighborhood around it is also new and still being developed. This case study looks at
how a suburban neighborhood can be built to connect to a major destination such as a school and how such a large land use can avoid being a barrier.

Current connectivity profile
The current profile shows that the Skyridge High School area scores moderately for intersection density and travel shed, but more poorly for general connectivity and
the pedestrian network. Improvements should focus on improving the link-node ratio by creating more four-way intersections and fewer dead ends, especially in new
development. Improvements should also reduce the size of the largest pedestrian blocks, and ensure good pedestrian connections to the school.

Connectivity Index
1.27
55%

Raw score
Percentage of
Standard

Average Destination
Intersection Density Travel-shed %
128
63%
73%
63%

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
2045 feet
49%

Potential Strategies
Plans and Policies

Retrofit strategies

•
Access and circulation plan for high school and surrounding area.
Street & Development Standards
•
•
•
•
•
•

Encourage/incent very small blocks (200 feet) with compatible
land uses.
Maximum block length for new development: 400 feet.
Minimum street connectivity standards for new development: 1.4.
New developments connect to stub streets for future connections.
Where full street connections not possible as extensions of
streets, place pedestrian paths.
Require “fronting” of land uses onto large public uses like parks
and schools.

•
•
•

Connect longest cul-de-sacs.
Pedestrian pass-throughs to commercial destinations.
Key multi-modal routes to access high school for surrounding
neighborhood, including streets, paths, crossings, wayfinding.
Managing connectivity
•

Manage concerns of school district about increased campus
access.

Improved connectivity profile
The potential strategies would produce a network that
improves the connectivity substantially. The network
shown would increase the link-node ratio by nearly 50
percent, bringing the network close to the Suburban
Neighborhood standard. Denser new developments
would increase network density to very close to the
standard.

70 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Raw score (change)
Percentage of Standard

Connectivity
Index
1.39 (+43.5%)
79%

Intersection
Density
168 (+32%)
96%

Average Destination
Travel-shed %
79% (+25%)
79%

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
1190 feet (-42%)
84%

SKYRIDGE
SKYRIDGE
HIGH SCHOOL
HIGH SCHOOL
AREA: POTENTIAL
AREA: EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS
SR 92

3200 W

Church

8000 W

_
^

Skyridge High School

Skyridge HS

_
^

Skyridge High School

Eaglecrest ES

_
^

NOTE: This map is not a plan.
It is an example of the street
connectivity changes that could
result from the hypothetical
potential strategies presented
on the previous page.
Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination
0

0.1

0.2

Miles
0.4

New node

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 71

SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOOD CASE STUDY: KAYS CREEK AND OAK LANE
This area is located in the foothills and ravines of the east side of Layton. The topography and the cul-de-sac-heavy street pattern currently restricts movement around the
neighborhood; residents in different parts of this small area must travel in long circuitous paths to reach neighborhood schools and churches on the other side of the steep
ravines. However, the potential exists for better pedestrian connections via an improved trail network.

Current connectivity profile
The current profile shows how this neighborhood scores poorly for every measure. However, the topography and built-out nature of the neighborhood makes changes
difficult. The most feasible changes are likely in reducing the size of gaps in the pedestrian network by connecting areas of the neighborhood by trails.

Connectivity Index
1.14
29%

Raw score
Percentage of
Standard

Average Destination
Intersection Density Travel-shed %
85
43%
48%
43%

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
3172 feet
32%

Potential Strategies
Plans and Policies

Retrofit strategies

•
Pedestrian circulation plan for the area.
•
Key connections plan for connecting some of the cul-de-sacs.
•
Implement Parks Plan proposed trails.
Street & Development Standards
•

Multiple access points for new developments.

•

Consider small street connections that improve neighborhood
destination access.
•
Trails between rows of homes – use Mid-Fork Trail as trunk which
side connector trails can branch off.
Managing connectivity
•

Improve sidewalks/paths on arterials like Antelope Drive.

Improved connectivity profile
The potential strategies would do little to change the
basic metrics but would reduce the pedestrian block
sizes, improving pedestrian connectivity in the area.
One lesson from this case study is that in some cases,
especially in built-out challenging areas, fewer aspects
of connectivity can be improved.

72 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Raw score (change)
Percentage of Standard

Connectivity
Index
1.16 (+9%)
31%

Average Destination
Intersection Density Travel-shed %
87 (+2%)
43% (+0%)
49%
43%

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
1568 feet (-51%)
64%

KAYS CREEK
KAYS
& CREEK
OAK LANE:
& OAK
POTENTIAL
LANE: EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS
NOTE: This map is not a plan.
It is an example of the street
connectivity changes that could
result from the hypothetical
potential strategies presented
on the previous page.

ANTELOPE DR.

Chuch

_
^

N.

KL
OA

Kayscreek and Oak Lane

Kayscreek and Oak Lane

East Layton Elementary

CHERRY LN.

_
^

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination
0

0.1

0.2

Miles
0.4

New node

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 73

SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOOD CASE STUDY: THE EXCHANGE
The Exchange, a planned development on the growing west side of Lehi, presents a unique opportunity for a case study. The Exchange was entitled under Lehi’s new street
connectivity standards, which require a minimum street connectivity index and maximum block length. The development was tested against this guide’s metrics and it scored
very well. The Exchange provides a real-world example of how street connectivity standards can produce a much more connected street network and neighborhood. The
Exchange has some cul-de-sacs but they are connected for pedestrians and cyclists; its other dead-end streets are planned to connect to adjacent developments.

Current connectivity profile
The current profile shows how, largely due to Lehi’s new standards for street connectivity, the Exchange scores very well on all aspects of connectivity. It either meets,
exceeds, or very nearly meets all the standards for a Suburban Neighborhood.

Connectivity Index
1.49
98%

Raw score
Percentage of
Standard

Average Destination
Intersection Density Travel-shed %
390
84%
223%
84%

Potential Strategies
•

The only improvements would be to increase the number of
pedestrian paths/pass-throughs in the longer blocks.

74 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
909 feet
110%

THE EXCHANGE:
THE EXCHANGE:
POTENTIAL
EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS

Exchange Community Rec.

_
^

Exchange Playground

_
^
The Exchange

The Exchange

Exchange Court

_
^

NOTE: This map is not a plan.
It is an example of the street
connectivity changes that could
result from the hypothetical
potential strategies presented
on the previous page.
Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination
0

0.05

0.1

Miles
0.2

New node

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 75

RURAL RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS

STREET CONNECTIVITY ISSUES AND CONSIDERATIONS
FOR RURAL NEIGHBORHOODS

A very low density residential area with agricultural or natural space mixed in and few
other uses present.

Street connectivity
•1
•2
3
•
4
•
•
5
•
6

Rural neighborhoods can be just as connected as suburban or even urban
neighborhoods. Many rural areas are built on grid networks.
Many uses prevalent in rural areas, such as open space and agriculture, can provide
barriers to connectivity, and must often be planned around.
Ensure new subdivisions are connected on multiple sides, not just to the nearest major
street.
Stub streets should be built to connect to future adjacent growth.
A long-term growth plan can identify where land uses will change and intensify and
where open space and agriculture will be preserved. This allows the appropriate future
connections to be anticipated.
In rural neighborhoods, more informal dirt roads and trails can be important links in the
network and raise connectivity – ensure public access to these.

3
6

14

7

3

2

8

10

9

13

5

3

1

12

11

9

4

5

Network density
7
•

Rural areas typically have low network density due to a variety of factors, including
large lots, low levels of infrastructure, and large farms and open space resources.
Consequently, it is important to maximize the other aspects of connectivity.

STUB STREET FOR
FUTURE CONNECTION

9
•
10
•

Because of low network density, rural neighborhoods should focus connectivity on
access to specific destinations.
Destinations should be concentrated as much as possible and located to maximize
connectivity, i.e. at key intersections.
Destinations should emphasize multi-modal access by ensuring non-arterial or highway
routes that lead to them.

LOCAL

/

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

/

INTERNAL

TRANSIT
AGRICULTURAL/
STOP
NATURAL OPEN SPACE

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING
300’

The diagram above shows a reasonably ideal connected network for this context type and
how the issues and considerations can be addressed.

Accommodate all users
•
11

12
•

•
13
•
14

76 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

/

COLLECTOR

/

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

Destination access
•
8

ARTERIAL

It is rare to have sidewalks on rural neighborhood streets, but new subdivisions should
have an overall plan to account for pedestrian movement through them, whether via
sharing the streets with slow-moving vehicles or a system of multi-use paths connecting
homes to destinations.
In rural neighborhoods, highways can be a barrier to pedestrian and bicycle access.
Ensure safe and convenient crossings of these large roads.
Active transportation paths can provide trunk routes among communities and
destinations in rural areas.
Open space resources such as stream corridors can be opportunities for pedestrian and
bike connections within or among rural communities.

STREET CONNECTIVITY STANDARD METRICS FOR RURAL NEIGHBORHOODS

Street
Connectivity

Network
Density

Destination
Access

Accommodate
All Users

Connectivity index of all streets:

1.5 links per node
Intersections per square mile:

50 intersections per mile
Average 1/2 mi travel-shed percentage for key destinations:

100% of travel-shed
Average of highest five pedestrian blocks:

1500 feet maximum
Utah Street Connectivity Guide 77

RURAL NEIGHBORHOOD CASE STUDY: WEST ERDA
West Erda is one of Tooele Valley’s fastest-growing areas. Over the past several years, it has seen new subdivisions that are not always well-connected to the existing rural
street network or to one another. Yet an area that is largely not built-out presents a major opportunity to create a well-connected network of new neighborhoods while
retaining the agricultural character of the area. This case study looks at the potential future of the West Erda street network in two phases – the near-term adjustment and
connections of projects currently in the planning stage; and the long-term build-out of the area.

Current connectivity profile
The current profile shows how West Erda scores poorly for all the metrics. Strategies should seek to improve all aspects of connectivity – both through near-term key
connections and new developments that are better connected and planned to connect to one another.

Connectivity Index
1.17
34%

Raw score
Percentage of
Standard

Average Destination
Intersection Density Travel-shed %
21
51%
43%
51%

Potential Strategies

•

Plans and Policies
•
•

Implement Tooele County Transportation Plan network
Develop a long-term master transportation network – with key
connections and grid types
Street & Development Standards
•
•
•

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
3650
41%

Minimum connectivity index (link-node) standard: 1.5
Maximum block length of 750 feet
Requirement for multiple accesses to arterial street for developments above a certain size

Cul-de-sac management standards:
o Limit cul-de-sacs to 20% of streets.
o Limit the maximum length of cul-de-sacs to 200 feet.
•
Requirement for pedestrian circulation plan
•
Stub street requirements for future connections
Retrofit strategies
•
•
•
•

Create pedestrian crossings across major streets
Connect longest cul-de-sacs
Develop active transportation “spine” through the area onto
which future active transportation links can connect
Create pedestrian easements/pass-throughs to key connections –
that could eventually become new streets

Improved connectivity profile
The potential strategies would produce a
network that incrementally improves the
connectivity to the point in the long-term
scenario where the standards for both basic
metrics are exceeded. The different types
of strategies combine to completely change
the network over a long period of time to
one that emphasizes the best aspects of
connectivity.

78 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Near
Term
Long
Term

Raw score (change)
Percentage of Standard
Raw score (change)
Percentage of Standard

Connectivity
Index
1.33 (93.9%)
67%
1.64 (+269%)
127%

Intersection
Density
26.31 (+22.7%)
53%
51.21 (138.9%)
102%

Avg. Destination
Travel-shed %
55% (+6%)
55%
83% (+61%)
83%

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
3150 feet (-14%)
48%
1505 feet (-59%)
100%

ng Link

West Erda

West Erda

(LONG TERM)
TERM)
WEST ERDA: POTENTIAL
WEST ERDA:
CONNECTIVITY
EXISTING CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS (SHORT

WEST ERDA: POTENTIAL
WEST ERDA:
CONNECTIVITY
EXISTING CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS (SHORT TERM)
Rose Springs Elementary School

_
^

BATES CANYON DR.

Rose Springs Elementary School

_
^

Stansbury High School

_
^

Stansbury High School

_
^

West Erda

S.R. 36

S.R. 36

BATES CANYON DR.

West Erda

West Erda

West Erda

ERDA WAY
ERDA WAY

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

ExistingLink
node - Dead end
Existing
Existing node - Intersection
Destination

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

New pedestrian
crossing

Potential
new street

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

Existing node - Dead end

0

New node

Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

0.25

New pedestrian
crossing

0.5

Miles
1

Existing Link

ERDA WAY
Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, sw
Community

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
Existing node
- Intersection routes)
Existing node - Dead end
pedestrian

Potential
new Potential new
Potential
new street
pedestrian/bike path
street
improvements

Destination

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
New street crossing
street improvements
over barrier

New pedestrian
crossing

New street crossing
New
node
over barrier

Destination0
New node

NOTE: These
maps are 0.5
not
0.25
plans. They are an example
of the street connectivity
changes that could result from
the hypothetical potential
strategies presented on the
previous page.
0

0.25

0.5

Miles
1

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 79

DOWNTOWN DISTRICTS

A mixed-use center of activity that attracts people from throughout the community
and sometimes the region.

STREET CONNECTIVITY ISSUES AND CONSIDERATIONS
FOR DOWNTOWN DISTRICTS

Street connectivity
•1
•2
3
•

•
4
5
•
6
•

Downtowns are the most connected of the six neighborhood-scale context types.
Because of historic pre-automobile nature of many downtowns, these areas present
favorable conditions for optimizing connectivity. Four-way intersections are common,
and dead ends and cul-de-sacs are rare.
New development should preserve pre-existing gridded networks (block consolidation
should be discouraged) and connect to street networks on most or all sides of the
development.
In the case of some larger land uses, large blocks are unavoidable, but active
transportation connections can increase connectivity.
Downtowns are often adjacent to major transportation facilities such as rails, freeways,
and other larger roads. The high degree of connectivity found in downtowns should
continue across these potential barriers as much as possible.
Downtowns are often where different types of street networks come together. The
places where these different networks come together can be designed to be key
connection points for the whole community, such as gateways, public spaces, or transit
centers.

Network density
7
•

•
8
•
9
10
•

•
11

Many downtowns throughout Utah are increasingly taking on more employment
density and diversifying land use into housing; street networks in these areas should
increasingly emphasize access and connection rather than mobility. For example,
intersections should be frequent even across large arterial streets to emphasize access
across them.
In downtowns, all land uses should fit into the overall dense network pattern,
preserving streets and intersections.
In Utah, even highly connected urban street networks can have low network density
because of large blocks (such as in central Salt Lake City); some of these historic grids
can be made more dense with additional street connections.
In some cases, downtowns have networks of one-way streets, which can reduce network
density for cyclists. In some cases, “contraflow” lanes can be striped on these streets to
allow cyclists to ride both ways on them.
Network density is most vital for pedestrians – a dense, connected network for people
on foot is the highest connectivity priority here.

80 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

/

14
15

/
/

/

/

/

/
/

/

/
4

/

1

16

/
/
/

/

/

/

13
15

19

11

/

8

/
/

9

7
ARTERIAL

/

/

/

/
/

LOCAL

/

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

/

TRANSIT
STOP

12

/

6

/

/

COLLECTOR

/

/

/

10

/

/

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

/

/
/

3

FREEWAY/
INTERCHANGE

17

/

/

BRIDGE or
UNDERPASS

18

/

14

/

2

/

/
5

/

20

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING

OPEN SPACE

NEW
DEVELOPMENT

RAIL TRACKS

300’

The diagram above shows a reasonably ideal connected network for this context type and
how the issues and considerations can be addressed.

Destination access
•
12

13
•

•
14

In downtowns, land uses are mixed, so destinations are spread across them. Because of
this, high street connectivity and network density tend to be the best tools to provide
good destination access.
Downtowns should provide multiple routes to access destinations by all modes.
A downtown can be considered one big destination in and of itself; how the downtown
is connected to the neighborhoods and districts around it is one of the most vital
connectivity issues.

STREET CONNECTIVITY STANDARD METRICS FOR DOWNTOWN DISTRICTS
•
15

One key issue for downtown destinations access is how travelers from outside the
district – in many cases from far outside it – can make a longer trip to access the area
and then transition to making shorter walking trips to access specific destinations within
the downtown. This raises the following considerations:
o One of the most important destinations in downtowns is parking – destinations
in downtown are oriented to community and regional visitors, many of whom
drive to them, park once and can walk from there. Networks should emphasize
connectivity between regional roadways and large parking lots or structures.
o Intermodal transportation centers and transit stations are also important
destinations in downtowns. These transportation centers should be connected to
the networks of all modes, especially for pedestrians, cyclists and other transit.
o Freeway interchanges are vital nodes to consider in downtowns, because they
must balance moving traffic from the freeway to the downtown with maintaining
a walkable environment for the downtown and its relationship with surrounding
neighborhoods and districts.

Street
Connectivity

Network
Density

Accommodate all users
16
•

17
•

18
•
19
•

•
20

Streets in downtowns accommodate all types of users, ensuring high connectivity and
density of networks for pedestrians, cyclists, transit vehicles and riders, motorists, and
truck deliveries.
While all downtown streets should be walkable, drivable and rideable for all modes,
downtown networks may have to prioritize different streets for different modes – for
example one street may focus on moving traffic through the downtown, while another
is a pedestrian promenade, while another is a transit mall concentrating transit service
and another features a hallmark protected bike facility.
Pedestrian ways can enhance networks in downtowns, but care should be taken that
pedestrian ways do not take energy and vibrancy away from streets.
Greenways/linear parks can provide a unique way to connect downtowns for
pedestrians, while providing an open space resource.
The major barriers for pedestrians within downtowns tend to be large streets; care
should be taken to provide frequent, convenient, and safe crossings across arterial
streets.

Destination
Access

Accommodate
All Users

Connectivity index of all streets:

1.7 links per node
Intersections per square mile:

225 intersections per mile
Average 1/2 mi travel-shed percentage for key destinations:

100% of travel-shed*
Average of highest five pedestrian blocks:

350 feet maximum
Utah Street Connectivity Guide 81

DOWNTOWN DISTRICT CASE STUDY: DOWNTOWN LEHI
Downtown Lehi is a classic Utah small town downtown, with a relatively consistent, dense grid of streets and blocks. While the connectivity in this area is better than most
other case study areas this guide explores, there is plenty of room for improvement – and this area has a higher standard to achieve in the downtown context type.

Current connectivity profile
The current profile shows how Downtown Lehi is generally a very well-connected place, yet because the standards for a Downtown District are so high, there is room for
improvement. This is especially true for the Pedestrian Block metric – even though the Lehi grid is made of blocks 430 feet long, there are five places where the pedestrian
block averages out to nearly a quarter mile. Improvements will focus on improving the pedestrian network and also increasing the network density with opportunities for
redevelopment.

Connectivity Index
1.49
70%

Raw score
Percentage of
Standard

Average Destination
Intersection Density Travel-shed %
145
86%
64%
86%

Potential Strategies

Retrofit strategies

Plans and Policies

•

•
Develop a plan to restore/complete the grid.
Street & Development Standards
•

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
1238 feet
28%

Grid repair/enhancement standards, including requirements that
new development restores/completes the 430-foot block grid and
incentives to infill the grid (215-foot blocks or mid-block pedestrian
ways).

Create more pedestrian crossings across the eastern segment of
Main Street.
•
Fill in missing sidewalks.
•
Create pedestrian connection between Main and 100 South by
Kohler’s grocery store.
•
Change drive aisle into full street: Extend the cul-de-sac of pool
drive to 500 East.
Managing connectivity
•

Develop complete streets standards.

Improved connectivity profile
The potential strategies would produce a network
that improves the connectivity on all counts. The
network shown would improve especially the network
density by 41 percent, while increasing the linknode ratio by 15 percent. The improvements to the
pedestrian network would also substantially reduce
the pedestrian block size.

82 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Raw score (change)
Percentage of
Standard

Connectivity
Index
1.57 (+15%)
81%

Average Destination
Intersection Density Travel-shed %
204 (+41%)
87% (+1%)
91%
87%

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
1006 feet (-19%)
35%

DOWNTOWN
DOWNTOWN
LEHI: POTENTIAL
LEHI: EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS

Lehi HS

_
^

Lehi Public Library

_
^
Lehi Downtown

Lehi Downtown

MAIN STREET
Lehi City Pool

_
^
CENTER STREET

NOTE: This map is not a plan.
It is an example of the street
connectivity changes that could
result from the hypothetical
potential strategies presented
on the previous page.
Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing
pedestrian block (gap between
parallel pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination
0

0.1

0.2

Miles
0.4

New node

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 83

CAMPUS DISTRICTS

A large land use such as an educational campus, shopping center, business park, or
entertainment/lifestyle center.

STREET CONNECTIVITY ISSUES AND CONSIDERATIONS
FOR CAMPUS DISTRICTS

Street connectivity
•1
•2
•3
•4

Streets in campus environments are often private internal streets and drive aisles.
Campus environment streets often have lower levels of connectivity within the campus
because they are designed to lead to specific destinations and parking areas.
It is important that a campus district’s internal network is well connected to the
surrounding networks; internal and external streets should align.
A well-connected pedestrian network is as vital in a campus as it is in a downtown, since
many people, even if they drive to the campus, access their destinations by parking once
and walking. In a campus, nearly everyone is a pedestrian.

7

/

3
/

/
1

/

4

/

11

6

Network density
•5

•6

Because of the size of many of the uses typically located in campus environments, such
as educational buildings, office buildings, and large stores, the density of the street
network is often low in campuses. However, a dense, connected pedestrian and bike
network is important to make up for this lack of street network density.
It is often possible to fit a campus type environment into the pattern of a dense,
connected neighborhood around it.

2 /

5

Destination access
•7

•8
•9

Like downtowns, campus environments are often community-wide and regional
destinations, so good access to them from regional transportation facilities such as
freeways and rail stations is vital.
Care should be taken to connect pedestrian paths to building entries and provide
efficient and safe connections among campus buildings.
It is often advantageous to have building entries fronting onto walkable streets in a
campus district in order to maximize access to destinations and a pedestrian-supportive
environment.

8/

10 /

7

/9

/
BRIDGE or
UNDERPASS

ARTERIAL
FREEWAY/
INTERCHANGE

COLLECTOR

LOCAL

BUILDING
ENTRY

/

TRANSIT
STOP

PEDESTRIAN

/
BUILDING

OPEN SPACE

300’

The diagram above shows a reasonably ideal connected network for this context type and
how the issues and considerations can be addressed.

Accommodate all users
•
10

Campus districts, as major destinations, should all be highly multi-modal. The level of
importance for walking, bicycling, and transit depends on the specific use – secondary
educational institutions, for example, should especially emphasize connected, dense
networks for pedestrians, bicyclists, and transit riders.

84 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

•
11

An important part of street connectivity in campus is ensuring that the network is
comprised of streets and not “drive aisles” of parking lots. Building a network of streets,
even internal streets, helps the network to support all modes.

STREET CONNECTIVITY STANDARD METRICS FOR CAMPUS DISTRICTS

Street
Connectivity

Network
Density

Destination
Access

Accommodate
All Users

Connectivity index of all streets:

1.5 links per node
Intersections per square mile:

50 intersections per mile
Average 1/2 mi travel-shed percentage for key destinations:

100% of travel-shed
Average of highest five pedestrian blocks:

500 feet maximum
Utah Street Connectivity Guide 85

CAMPUS DISTRICT CASE STUDY: THANKSGIVING POINT, LEHI
Thanksgiving Point is a fast-growing office park with some cultural and entertainment elements and presents a good opportunity to study a campus-type environment.
The area is split by Interstate-15, which creates a barrier for movement within it. It has the benefit of a UTA FrontRunner rail station but the rail tracks also present another
barrier to the west of the area. Thanksgiving Point has few public streets connecting its large properties, creating a low-density network that also poses a challenge to
connectivity.

Current connectivity profile
The current profile shows how Thanksgiving Point, while well-connected, has a lower network density than it should and a very poor ability to connect people to its key
destinations and move pedestrians around. Improvements will focus on these latter three areas, especially improving the pedestrian network and overcoming the I-15
barrier to improve the travel-sheds of key destinations such as Adobe.

Connectivity Index
1.42
83%

Raw score
Percentage of
Standard

Average Destination
Intersection Density Travel-shed %
29
36%
57%
36%

Potential Strategies

Retrofit strategies

Plans and Policies

•

•

Street connectivity plan addressing street densification/infill;
pedestrian circulation; I-15 barrier connections; and specific improvements enhancing access to key destinations.
•
Explore a special district or a Transportation Management Association to pay for street connectivity improvements.
Street & Development Standards
•
•

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
2690 feet
19%

Require maximum block length of 800 feet.
Require maximum pedestrian pathway spacing of 350 feet.

Convert drive aisles/gated streets to full streets – i.e. south of
Vivint and adjacent to Electric Park and throughout Thanksgiving
Point entertainment area.
•
Create pedestrian/bike bridge at Adobe campus.
•
Create more direct street connection from Executive / Ashton
through parking lots to FrontRunner station.
•
Explore pedestrian and bicycle greenway connecting key destinations: Thanksgiving Point entertainment, Ashton corridor, food and
shopping, and the FrontRunner station.
Managing connectivity
•

Special District / Transportation Management Association ongoing
management of connectivity issues.

Improved connectivity profile
The potential strategies would produce a network
that improves the connectivity substantially. In this
network, the link-node ratio and the intersection
density have increased beyond the standard for
campuses.

86 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Raw score (change)
Percentage of
Standard

Connectivity
Index
1.52 (+25%)
105%

Average Destination
Intersection Density Travel-shed %
52 (+83%)
56% (+56%)
105%
56%

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
2068 feet (-23%)
24%

THANKSGIVING
THANKSGIVING
POINT: POTENTIAL
POINT: EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS
Adobe

_
^

SR 92

Thanksgiving Point

Thanksgiving Point

EXECUTIVE PKWY
Lehi FrontRunner

_
^

ON
HT
AS

Thanksgiving Point Megaplex Theatre

_
^

VD
BL

NOTE: This map is not a plan.
It is an example of the street
connectivity changes that could
result from the hypothetical
potential strategies presented
on the previous page.

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination
0

New node

0.15

0.3

Miles
0.6

Existing transit
stop/station

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 87

INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS

STREET CONNECTIVITY ISSUES AND CONSIDERATIONS
FOR INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS

An area focused on production or distribution activities.

Street connectivity
•1

•2
3
•
4
•

Industrial districts are often located adjacent to major transportation facilities such as
rail yards and railroads, major collectors and arterials, and ports (dry or water). Because
of these transportation facilities and large land parcels found in industrial districts,
street connectivity can sometimes be limited.
Older industrial districts may have streets that do not accommodate the geometric
design needed for 53-foot trucks and large combination vehicles (LCVs).
Adequate turning radii at interchanges, intersections, and business entrances are
needed for 53-foot trucks and LCVs.
Longer turn lane lengths and signal timing, particularly left turn signals, need to be
adjusted for high levels of truck traffic at intersections and interchanges.

3

8

•
6

•
7
8
•
•
9
•
10

It is often the first and last mile of freight that is most difficult for mobility of freight
vehicles.
Arterial roadways such as freeways and parkways are necessary access to industrial
districts because of the large truck volumes associated with such development.
Multiple accesses to industrial districts are important for freight mobility.
Sufficient space is needed for the expansion of freight land uses in industrial districts.
Therefore, additional roadways and land are needed for future use.

Accommodate all users
11
•
12
•
13
•

If geometric roadway designs work for trucks, they will work for automobiles.
Industrial districts are usually major employment centers and access to transit is needed
in industrial districts.
Bike lanes and routes also provide employment access to industrial districts.

88 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

14

/

16

9

10

BRIDGE or
UNDERPASS

ARTERIAL
FREEWAY/
INTERCHANGE

13

2

6

New industrial development should promote a grid street network with collector streets
placed every four to six blocks and arterial streets every one mile.
Access management should be controlled with one to two major accesses to large land
parcels.

Destination access

7

1

Network density
5
•

/

12

5

11

4 /

10

COLLECTOR

LOCAL

/

TRANSIT
STOP

5

/

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING

OPEN SPACE

NEW
DEVELOPMENT

RAIL TRACKS

300’

The diagram above shows a reasonably ideal connected network for this context type and
how the issues and considerations can be addressed.

14
•

Establish truck routes in non-industrial districts for the following reasons:
o Help trucks avoid inappropriate residential streets.
o Reduce traffic congestion throughout the municipality and the region.
o Increase logistics operations that will benefit businesses, transportation providers,
and consumers.
o Improve the economic competitiveness and attractiveness of industrial districts.
o Provide a major benefit to the municipality’s economy.

STREET CONNECTIVITY STANDARD METRICS FOR INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS

Street
Connectivity

Network
Density

Destination
Access

Accommodate
All Users

Connectivity index of all streets:

1.5 links per node
Intersections per square mile:

50 intersections per mile
Average 1/2 mi travel-shed percentage for key destinations:

100% of travel-shed
Average of highest five pedestrian blocks:

1500 feet maximum

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 89

INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT CASE STUDY: LAYTON INDUSTRIAL AREA
The industrial area in Layton oriented along Hill Field Road contains major distribution centers for companies such as the grocery chain Smith’s. Issues raised in this case
study include how well the area is connected for the freight trucks that must access it from I-15 and circulate within it, as well as the ability of the area to not be a barrier to
citywide travelers moving through it.

Current connectivity profile
The current profile shows how the Layton industrial area already scores well on the metrics relative to the standards for an industrial area. The largest area needing
improvement is the reduction in the pedestrian block size, so improvements will largely focus on that.

Connectivity Index
1.58
117%

Raw score
Percentage of
Standard

Average Destination
Intersection Density Travel-shed %
48
62%
95%
62%

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
3019
50%

Potential Strategies
Plans and Policies

Retrofit strategies

•

•
•

Identify key community-wide bike and pedestrian routes through
the area.
•
Leverage and maximize for all modes the existing rail crossings especially the grade-separated crossing.
•
Identify potential new streets crossing the rail trail westward if
industrial land uses will expand to the west.
Street & Development Standards
•
•

Fill in sidewalk gaps on Hill Field Road.
Create more east-west pedestrian/bike corridors through the
industrial area based on routes identified in policy.
•
Consider long-term east-west connection in southern area to
leverage rail crossing and avoid trucks going through adjacent
neighborhood.
Managing connectivity

Future industrial development should align streets to create 4-way
intersections.
Manage cul-de-sacs in industrial area and adjacent development.

•
•

Ensure ability of streets and intersections to handle truck
movements.
Balance freight and other modal use of Hill Field Road.

Improved connectivity profile
The potential strategies would produce a network
that improves the connectivity, increasing the linknode ratio and intersection density modestly.

90 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Raw score (change)
Percentage of
Standard

Connectivity
Index
1.69 (+18%)
138%

Average Destination
Intersection Density Travel-shed %
58 (+22%)
83% (+33%)
116%
83%

Average Top 5
Pedestrian Block
2390 feet (-21%)
63%

LAYTON INDUSTRIAL:
POTENTIAL
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS
LAYTON INDUSTRIAL:
EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
1000 N.

I-1
5

HILL FIELD RD.

BMC

_
^

Industrial Park

Industrial Park

Smith's Distribution Center

_
^

Downtown Area

Downtown Area

NOTE: This map is not a plan.
It is an example of the street
connectivity changes that could
result from the hypothetical
potential strategies presented
on the previous page.

Chevron

_
^

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination
0

0.125

0.25

Miles
0.5

New node

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 91

3.4 Connect your community in 3 Steps

The following three steps walk you, the practitioner, through how to evaluate
the street connectivity in your community, and then how to employ appropriate
strategies to improve street connectivity.

For a ready-made place to calculate your community’s street connectivity,
download the Connectivity Calculator on the Wasatch Front Regional Council
website.

STEP 1: EVALUATE YOUR COMMUNITY

Calculating the measures involves obtaining some basic information about your
area for the basic metrics. The advanced metrics require more information and
potentially specialized software. Enter your information into the Connectivity
Calculator. Depending on the type you entered, the Connectivity Calculator will
automatically give you your area’s score for each of the metrics that you measured.

Define your area. The street connectivity evaluation depends on defining a clear
area to measure. This area can be as small as a few blocks and as large as the
entire Wasatch Front. Start by identifying the area on a map and measure its area
in square miles. Be sure to exclude any areas that present constraints for building,
such as protected natural open space, steep slopes, or water bodies.
Note that the Utah Street Connectivity Guide’s standards are set up to incorporate
streets that may also define the study area’s boundaries. For example, if the border
of your study area on one side is a collector street, incorporate that collector and its
intersections as part of your study area.
Identify your context type. How connected your community should be, and the
strategies you should use to improve the connectivity, is based on what kind of
community it is.
Two primary questions inform this step:
•

What scale are you analyzing – a neighborhood, a city, or an entire region
or county?

•

What is the character of the area you are analyzing – is it a primarily
residential neighborhood? If so, is it more urban, suburban, or rural? Or if
it is not residential, is it a downtown, an industrial area, or a campus-type
environment?

To answer these questions, reference the Contexts for Street Connectivity Section
3.1 as well as the typology descriptions in the Design Guide and Case Study Results
Section 3.3. Note that the connectivity type is up to you – however, the standards
for the different types will direct you toward higher or lower connectivity as well as
different context-appropriate strategies.
Measure connectivity in your community. Use the metrics identified in the
Measuring Street Connectivity Section 2.1 to assess your area.
You have the choice of using just the two basic connectivity metrics, which are
relatively quick to measure, or the basic metrics plus the two advanced metrics.
While the advanced metrics take more time to measure than the basic ones, they
form a more complete picture when combined with the basic measures.

92 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

See how your area rates. Take the results of your measurements and compare
them against the standards given for the type you identified. These standards are
found in the descriptions for each type as well as Section 3.1. Where is your
community weak or strong? How far are you from the standards for each type?
If some of the aspects of connectivity in your area are so far from the context type
standard, consider choosing a different type. If, for example, you have identified
your community as an urban neighborhood, but the network density is much closer
to the standard for a suburban neighborhood, then perhaps your area is more of a
suburban neighborhood.

STEP 2: DEVELOP STRATEGIES

STEP 3: IMPLEMENT STRATEGIES AND MONITOR PROGRESS

Build a list of strategies. Reference your area’s type description, which contains
a list of considerations organized by the different aspects of connectivity. This list
of considerations will point you to issues to consider in the aspects you need to
improve in your area, and help you brainstorm opportunities. Look through the list
of strategies in the Strategies, Best Practices, and Tools to improve Connectivity
Section 2.2.

Implement your strategies. Refine your suite of strategies and make policy
arguments to other local jurisdiction or agency staff and officials for the strategies
that you think will be most effective. Work with colleagues and stakeholders to
implement the strategies.

Compile a list of strategies that you think will improve the aspects of connectivity
that you have identified. It is a good idea to have a blend of different types of
strategies that complement one another. For example, Plan and Policy strategies
provide a foundation for improving a community’s connectivity and should be
complemented by strategies that can implement those plans such as Street and
Development Standards or capital improvement projects. It is good to understand
that if you need strategies for a built-out community, the Retrofit Strategies may
be more effective while if you are addressing connectivity in new developments,
standards may be more effective.

Monitor progress. In the years after you implement your strategies, use the street
connectivity metrics to monitor the improvement of street connectivity in your
area. This ongoing monitoring is valuable for you to fine tune your community’s
policies, but it is also adds to the knowledge base in the planning and engineering
communities with regard to street connectivity. A relative dearth of data related
to roadways, active transportation usage, and other factors that weigh heavily
on determining the success on increased connectivity means that some of these
measures have room for improvement in their precision and predictability.

Calculate the street connectivity metrics once the strategies are implemented.
Update your map of links and nodes (and the advanced metrics if you did those
to reflect the physical street connectivity changes you expect when your suite of
strategies is implemented. For example, if you have an undeveloped area and plan
to enact a minimum street connectivity index, draw a new street network that
reflects that index.
Then, re-count your links, nodes, and other elements and re-calculate your metrics.
Enter your improved connectivity metrics into the Connectivity Calculator, which
will automatically determine your estimated improved metrics.
In addition, you can use the re-calculate technique to measure the effect of a
transportation master plan or another planned network on street connectivity.
Make a list of the benefits of your connectivity improvements. Use the WHY is
connectivity important? Section 1.3 to estimate the benefits that will result from
implementing your connectivity strategies. Focus on the benefits that will be most
compelling to your community.

Utah Street Connectivity Guide 93

CONCLUSION
Connect!

Thank you for reading the Utah Street Connectivity Guide. This guide has provided
you with a top-to-bottom, A to Z rundown of everything street connectivity. You
have learned what street connectivity is and the range of benefits it brings to Utah
communities. Especially compared to street widening, street connectivity provides
equal or better mobility benefits with a multitude of community benefits that
widening does not create. You have learned how to measure street connectivity.
You have learned of a range of ways to increase street connectivity in communities,
from high-level policies to detailed street development standards to capital
improvement projects retrofitting built-out areas. You have reviewed the series
of case studies that apply these tools in specific Utah communities and result
in specific benefits. Finally, you have learned that the best street connectivity
improvements depend on the type of community, neighborhood or district you are
planning.
Perhaps most importantly, we hope that this guide has conveyed that street
connectivity can benefit your community regardless of what type of city, town,
county or region you are – there are ways to increase connectivity and network
density, to link people to destinations, and improve the pedestrian network that
respect your community character and values.
Now, it is up to you to use these tools and connect your streets in a way that is
appropriate for your community. Good luck!

Additional resources for you:
•

•

•
•

94 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

Utah Street Connectivity Guide Appendices:
o Public Outreach Summary
o Literature Review
o Staff and Community Surveys
Connectivity Calculator: a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet that
provides shortcuts for calculating the four street connectivity
metrics used in this guide.
Lehigh Valley Planning Commission Street Guidance Document:
another connectivity guide that complements this guide.
Lehi City street connectivity standards: Lehi, a city that participated
in this stud, created a set of connectivity standards highlighted on
pages 28 and 29. Contact the city or go on its website for the full
standards: www.lehi-ut.gov.

UTAH
STREET
CONNECTIVITY
GUIDE
APPENDIX

APPENDIX

Literature Review

STREET CONNECTIVITY STUDY
Literature Review: Final Report

Authored by:
Utah Traffic Lab, University of Utah
and
Parametrix

Date of Research: March – April 2016

Report Date: June 20, 2016

INTRODUCTION
Street connectivity refers to the ways in which our streets are linked to one another. Numerous
studies and projects have proven the benefits of better street connectivity when it comes to
accessibility for all users, reduction in congestion and improvement in travel times, improvements
in safety and security for all users, environmental benefits, economic development, community
resiliency, and better livability.
This literature has explored the impacts of several built environment features on transportation
behavior. Various facets of street connectivity have been identified as some of the most important
features of a built environment, and thus have a major impact on travel behavior. By changing
travel behavior, street connectivity makes a direct or indirect impact on many aspects of daily life
such as a person’s choice of ways to travel and to the ability to move about the community and
region, access to his or her community, and his or her safety, health, and economic well-being.
In addition, street connectivity influences the effectiveness of a community’s infrastructure,
emergency access, its compatibility with other jurisdictions and the region as a whole, its ability
to manage its growth, and its relationship to the environment. Thus, understanding different ways
to define and measure street connectivity and how it shapes and impacts these aspects of
communities will help to plan and design informed policies.
At the onset of the Utah Street Connectivity Study, a working group including representatives of
public agencies and cities in the region gathered and developed a refined list of these community
goals potentially achieved by better street connectivity. This list includes:












regional and community mobility;
transportation choice;
accessibility to destinations;
safety and health;
effective infrastructure;
community livability
economic vitality;
environmental stewardship;
interlocal and regional compatibility;
overcoming geographic barriers; and
growth management.

These goals will be the framework of the Utah Street Connectivity Study, informing the benefits
we explore and the strategies that could achieve those benefits.
This document is structured to explore three key questions:




WHAT is street connectivity?
WHY does street connectivity matter?
HOW can we achieve street connectivity in our Utah communities?

Each of the following sections will explore one of these questions.

WHAT IS STREET CONNECTIVITY? WAYS TO MEASURE HOW
STREETS ARE CONNECTED
While simple in idea, street connectivity is complex to measure. Street connectivity can refer to a
number of aspects of the street network, including the measure of density of network connections
and directness of paths. Good street connectivity has many short links, numerous intersections that
connect joining roadways, and avoid cul-de-sacs (Victoria Transport Policy Institute (VTPI),
2015) (Figure 1). Street connectivity includes both the quantity and quality of connections
(Scoppa, 2015). In its core, street connectivity reverts to the main function of streets, which is
connecting spatially-separated places and enabling movement between them. It relates to the
number of intersections along a segment, and asserts the overall connectivity of an area to the
system (Lehigh Valley Planning Commission (LVPC), 2011). In such a network, travel distances
decrease, numerous shortest paths exist between each origin and destination, more destinations
become accessible within the given time budget, active transportation becomes a viable choice,
and the response time for emergency services reduces.

Figure 1: Connectivity Impacts on Accessibility
The two networks in Figure 1 differ in a number of ways:







They have different levels of connection: In the network on the right, the intersections
are individually more efficient – i.e., they are doing more work – than in the network on
the right.
They have different network densities: Assuming they are the same scale, the network
on the right has a higher number of connections and links than the network on the left.
They have different abilities to connect to specific destinations: The network on the
right offers a higher number and more direct routes to connect between points A and B,
and from the rest of the network to these destinations.
They vary in quality for different modes: The network on the right offers several streets
of similar type, meaning that crossing these streets for pedestrians and bicyclists will be



easier than in the network on the left, which offers lots of smaller local streets and one
major wide street that is probably difficult to cross on foot or by bike. A well-connected
network provides travel options for all types of mobility, such as automobile, transit,
walking, and biking. In this sense, street connectivity means more than just a connected
series of lines, by looking at how the lines function on the ground.
They are different styles of networks: The most obvious difference between the two
networks is that the one on the right is a grid pattern while the one on the left is a branching
pattern with many cul-de-sac ends. Different street patterns are directly related to street
connectivity (VTPI, 2015). In a grid street system, streets are usually highly connected,
straight, and parallel and intersections are usually 4-legged and perpendicular. In a
modified grid system, streets are usually well connected, but many are short and there is
significant number of T-intersections. In a hierarchical network, streets are less connected,
with many cul-de-sacs and connections to arterials. The less-connected network shown in
Figure 1 is an example of a hierarchical network. A hierarchical network emphasizes
mobility along high-speed and high-capacity arterials. On the other hand, the grid network
in Figure 1 emphasizes accessibility by supporting all transportation modes and traffic
dispersion.

These differences combine to affect travel behavior and other aspects of life. In Figure 1, points A
and B are approximately the same distance apart on the map, but the trip distance in a poorlyconnected network is almost three times longer than in a well-connected network. Consequently,
bad connectivity tends to increase total vehicle travel, traffic congestion, and accident risk. The
poorly-connected route also requires entering and exiting the arterial route (high speed) which can
increase the risk of an accident. In a network with bad connectivity, walking and biking are not
viable transportation choices due to crossing high-speed and high-volume roads.
The following section explores how these differences can be measured.
Street Connectivity Measures
There are many studies that address measuring street connectivity. A good measure should
characterize the street connectivity accurately, and be determined easily (applicable). Most
connectivity measures link travel behavior to urban form.
Generally, all measures can be given on the network level, but they are categorized based on the
parameters needed for calculation:






the level of connection (such as connected intersection/node ratio, connectivity index),
densities (block length, size and density, street length and density, intersection density),
ability to connect to specific destinations (areas, route directness, accessibility index,
effective walking area),
quality of routes (lengths and sizes among others), and
types of street and intersection configurations (percentage of four side blocks, percentage
of four-way intersections, percentage of cul-de-sacs, connected intersection/node ratio).

Table 1 presents some of the most widely-used measures, classified by the predominant level
(network, block, street, and intersection) (Dill 2004, Berrigan et al. 2010, Zhou et al. 2014, Tasic
et al. 2015, Scoppa 2015, VTPI 2015).

TABLE 1 Street Connectivity Measures
Measure
Connectivity
index/Link-node
ratio
Connected node
ratio
Connected
intersection ratio
Total blocks

What does it
measure

Description

Level of connection

Number of links divided by the number of nodes in an
area

Block length

Network density

Block size

Network density

Number of street intersections divided by the number
of intersections plus cul-de-sacs
Number of connected intersections divided by the total
number of intersections
Number of blocks within a network
Length from the curb of one side of the block to the
curb on the other side of the block (or between
intersection mid-points)
Area of the block (mi2)

Block density
Street network
length
Street density

Network density

Number of blocks per mi2

Network density

Total length of streets within a network (mi)

Network density

Street network length divided by total network area

Total intersections

Network density

Number of intersections within the area

Intersection density
Effective walking
area

Network density

Accessibility index

Specific destinations

Number of intersections per unit of area
Number of parcels within 5 min walking time (¼ mi
walking distance) from origin
Actual travel distances divided by direct travel
distances
The ratio of physical route distance to straight line
distance between two points
Length of one-way streets divided by street network
length

Pedestrian route
directness
Percentage of oneway streets
Percentage of four
side blocks
Percentage of culde-sacs
Percentage of fourway intersections

Level of connection
Level of connection
Network density

Specific destinations

Specific destinations
Qualities of routes
Network
configuration
Level of
connection/network
configuration
Network
configuration

Percentage of area with four side blocks
Number of Cul-de-Sacs/Number of nodes
Percentage of area with four-way intersections (shows
the grid pattern of a network)

There are many additional measures used for street connectivity in the literature and practice
(Tresider 2005, Yi 2008, Scoppa 2009, Berrigan et al. 2010, Zhou et al. 2014, Scoppa 2015). The

presented table shows the most common ones that are easier to calculate and can be applied to any
network. Among these measures, block length, block size, block density, intersection density, 4way intersection density, and connectivity index are easy to calculate and have impact on many
different aspects including: accessibility, active transportation, land use mix, public health,
emergency access, and walkability. Therefore, they are the most-widely used measures in policies.
However, the block measures may not be appropriate for the analysis of small-scale
neighborhoods. On the other hand, link-node ratio and connected node ratio don’t consider the
block size, spacing of intersections, and length of the links (Zhang and Kukadia 2005). It is
important to know that each street connectivity measure has its advantages and disadvantages. For
a large-scale analysis, the density measures are more widely used and expected to perform better.
The measures presented in Table 1 are selected as the most applicable for Utah conditions, based
on the previous studies that considered street connectivity issues and their importance to local
agencies. Additional measures for including public transit and biking should be considered and
added to the list – these fall into the “qualities of routes” category, which is the most underrepresented on the list. The measures should be classified for suburban and urban, as well as
regional, community and neighborhood levels to capture street connectivity for different
typologies and levels that will be analyzed in this study.
Roadway Functional Classification and Relation to Connectivity
When discussing street connectivity, it is important to consider that perhaps the major driver of
the design of street networks over the last half-century has been the Functional Classification
System. The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) functional classification of highways
(FHWA Functional Classification Guidelines 2011, AASHTO Green Book 2011, LVPC 2011) is
based on the hierarchy of movements (such as the main movement, transition, distribution,
collection and local access), as well as trade-off between mobility and accessibility. Arterials have
the highest mobility and lowest destination accessibility, local streets have highest accessibility to
destinations but lowest mobility, while collectors are in between and they provide links between
arterials and local streets (Figure 2). Mobility is a measure of moving efficiently and comfortably,
and is characterized by high speeds, lower travel times, and small delays. Access is the ability to
approach a desired trip destination and is needed at both ends of any trip. Based on the function
that a roadway needs to perform, a set design criteria for different functional classes are
established, such as speed, lane width, and alignment. The Functional Class system aims to
improve the effective connectivity for motorists by providing both mobility and accessibility. It
has been this focus on vehicle mobility and access that has driven the shape of our street networks
over the last half century.
However, the Functional Class system has been criticized for lacking in its effectiveness of serving
the mobility and access of other modes, as well as a wider range of community goals such as safer
streets for all users, less traffic congestion, savings in costs, and reducing the need to provide more
capacity on arterial streets. Therefore, connectivity principles should be applied both internally
(streets within an area) and externally (connections with arterials).

FIGURE 2 Relationship between Mobility and Land Access in FHWA Classification

WHY DOES STREET CONNECTIVITY MATTER? EXPLORING THE
BENEFITS
This section summarizes the literature’s findings on how street connectivity achieves benefits
associated with the community goals identified in the introduction. These include:













regional and community mobility;
transportation choice;
accessibility to destinations;
traffic safety
public health;
effective infrastructure;
community livability
economic vitality;
environmental stewardship;
interlocal and regional compatibility;
overcoming geographic barriers; and
growth management.

The degree to which the literature supports the existence of benefits associated with these goals
varies. Much of the literature has been focused on a few of these goals. The literature points to
both direct and indirect benefits of street connectivity. Direct benefits are straightforward
outcomes of street connectivity, such as increased mobility, increased use of transit and nonmotorized modes, destination accessibility, and community livability. Indirect benefits are added
values of street connectivity resulting from direct benefits, such as safety and health, security,
economic vitality, and growth management.. In addition, other goals appear to have benefits that
on one hand seem to be inherent but also have not been explored to a major degree in the literature.

DIRECT BENEFITS
Regional Mobility
Good street connectivity redistributes traffic among different routes in a network, providing more
options and better accessibility for local traffic. This in return frees some of the capacity on the
adjacent arterial roads, which are mostly used by the through traffic.
The literature shows the following regional mobility-related benefits are associated with increased
street connectivity:
VMT, trip lengths, and travel time:
McNally et al. (1992) analyzed vehicle miles traveled (VMT), average trip lengths, and congestion
at links and intersections for two hypothetical networks which tried to replicate the characteristic
of neo-traditional (enhanced connectivity) and conventional suburban community (low
connectivity). The results showed a significant reduction in VMT and travel time within the
network with enhanced connectivity. There are several similar studies with similar types of results
(Portland Metro 2004, Zhou et al. 2014).
A reduction in VMTs is usually one of the most easily observed parameters that result from
applying street connectivity measures. Summarizing the results from the presented studies (VTPI
2015, Portland Metro 2004, McNally 1992) it can be seen that the implementation of different
street connectivity strategies reduces VMTs from about 2% to close to 70% in some cases. In
general, the average reduction in VMTs is about 10% in networks with good street connectivity.
A greater reduction in VMTs is observed in less dense automobile-oriented urban areas. In gridtype networks, an increase of 10% in relative connectivity for pedestrians is associated with a
23% decrease in VMTs on the local level (VTPI 2015). A reduction in VMTs is directly related
with safety and environmental impacts.
Reduction in arterial traffic volumes:
Alba et al. (2005) explored the impact of street connectivity of local residential areas on traffic
volume of neighboring arterials. Tallahassee, Florida, was selected as the case study network. The
results showed enhanced connectivity can reduce the traffic volume of arterials significantly when
the travel speed between arterial and local streets is small, and the capacity of the arterial is small
or fully utilized. Tasic et al. (2015) studied the effects of enhanced connectivity on traffic operation
in West Valley City, Utah. They simulated and compared twelve different scenarios including
enhanced connectivity, street widening, and traffic calming measures for the study area. The
results show that enhanced connectivity scenarios accommodate more traffic than the scenarios
with street widening, and benefits both traversing and local traffic.
The existing research and practice on street connectivity in most cases supports the findings that
greater connectivity reduces traffic volumes on arterials. The main factors that influence this are
reduced trip distances, reduced number of trips, multiple alternative routes, shifts from personal
vehicles to other modes, and redistribution of traffic throughout the network which increases the
network-wide capacity. This increased accessibility in turn increase mobility throughout the
network. In general, enhanced connectivity tends to decrease travel time and congestion, and

therefore increases the regional mobility. On the other hand, through traffic on local streets must
be controlled to prevent deterioration of conditions in local neighborhoods.
Overall network capacity
“Street Connectivity: An Evaluation of Case Studies in the Portland Region,” by Portland Metro,
found that improved street connectivity decreases overall vehicle traffic demand. However, the
same study also found that a side effect of increased connectivity is that additional connecting
intersections reduce the overall capacity of regional streets.
As an important side note to the benefits identified above, the Portland Metro study found that
returns of connectivity are highest when a network goes from low to moderate density, from 10 to
16 connections per mile. These returns diminish for motorists when a network goes from this
moderate level to a higher level of connectivity.
Transportation Choice
Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC), Mountainland Association of Governments (MAG)
and towns and local communities in Utah are developing plans to promote the ability to shift from
personal vehicle usage to other modes of transportation, such as transit and active transportation
modes. Many efforts have been made in this direction in recent years. Better street connectivity
provides travelers with greater choice of travel modes. In a well-connected network, active
transportation modes and transit become more viable choices largely because they reduce walking
and bicycling distances among origins and destinations. This means that these types of networks
are less automobile-dependent.
The literature shows the following transportation choice-related benefits are associated with
increased street connectivity:
Bike and pedestrian mobility
The Portland Metro study found that improved connectivity leads to better mobility for cyclists
and pedestrians. Furthermore, the study notes that in contrast to motorist benefits, pedestrian and
bicyclist benefits experience increasing returns from medium to high connectivity.
Pedestrian and bike mode share:
A study of urban neighborhoods in Seattle found that the highest proportion of pedestrian trips
occur in areas where paths are relatively more direct to nearby destinations on foot than by car
(Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC) 2008). Higher values of pedestrian network
areas and effective walking areas generate greater increases in walking and reduction of driving.
Berrigan et al. (2010) found statistically significant correlation between aggregate measures of
street connectivity on one side and walking and biking on the other.
Studies found that the biggest proportion of pedestrian trips (close to 18%) is achieved in
networks with good connectivity and pedestrian-focused designs, compared to about 10% of
pedestrian trips in networks with poor connectivity (CMHC 2008). According to the same study,
a grid-like, well connected network, contributes to about 26% increase in the odds that the
residents will meet the recommended level of physical activity through local walking. A study of
24 California cities explored how different network designs impact transportation mode share

(Marshall and Garrick, 2010). The study found that increased street connectivity was highly
associated with increased walking and biking mode shares (or with decreased driving mode
shares). Between hierarchical networks and more connected networks, walking and biking mode
shares tripled from about 6% of trips (combined) to almost 18%. This shows that well connected
networks have much higher shares of non-automobile modes.
Better transit performance
Connectivity improves the efficiency of bus transit by providing more direct routes (LVPC 2011).
The collector street network plays a major role in improving transit efficiency in suburban areas
by providing a connection between arterials (where the bus lines mostly run) and local network
for local access, usually by walking. A good collector network creates more options for routing
bus transit closer to neighborhoods, eliminating the need for automobile use and having positive
environmental impacts.
Selection of non-auto modes:
Ewing and Cervero (2010) performed a meta-analysis of the past literature on the impact of built
environment on travel. In this study, built environment measures were organized into five
categories called D variables (Density, Diversity, Design, Destination Accessibility, and Distance
to transit), which are in direct correlation with street connectivity measures. The results of the
study confirm that street connectivity characteristics have significant impacts on transportation
mode choice. Berrigan et al. (2010) explored correlation between different connectivity
characteristics and measures and active transportation (such as walking and biking). The study
found statistically significant correlation between aggregate measures of street connectivity and
active transportation. Short blocks and grid-like network structure were found to be the
predominant characteristics that lead to active transportation.
Transit ridership:
Transit use is also related to the measures of design, destination accessibility, distance to transit,
and demographics (Ewing et al. 2011, Tian et al. 2015). Trip distance for automobile trips is related
to development scale, diversity, destination accessibility, and demographics.
Access to Destinations
There is a strong correlation between street connectivity and accessibility. Many studies have used
these terms almost as equal, meaning that high street connectivity leads to high accessibility to
destinations and otherwise.
The literature shows the following accessibility-related benefits are associated with increased
street connectivity:
Pedestrian and bike accessibility:
Yi (2008) explored street connectivity and pedestrian accessibility for typical cul-de-sac and grid
networks. He concluded that the grid network provides better accessibility to destinations for
pedestrians, but by providing separate pedestrian trails, the accessibility of cul-de-sacs can be
improved up to a point where it is comparable with a grid network. Tal and Handy (2012) explored
various measures of network connectivity and pedestrian accessibility for non-motorized trips.

They showed that pedestrian network continuity is an important part of non-motorized
accessibility, and often neglected in past studies.
One major finding of the Portland Metro case studies (2004) was that pedestrian and bike access
to destinations was greatly improved with better connectivity. The study considered three scenarios
of different connectivity, and in each, access to a town center from a neighborhood (defined as the
percentage of the neighborhood within 1/4 to 1/2 walking/bicycling distance) was measured.
The study found that increased connectivity yields increased access so that 74 percent of the
neighborhood was accessible from selected locations in the moderate connectivity scenario, while
99 percent of the neighborhood was accessible in the high connectivity scenario. Access increased
due to the decreased distance that pedestrians and bicyclists have to travel to a town center. The
ratio of “actual walk distance” to “straight line distance” dropped from 1.4 in the low connectivity
scenario to 1.18 in the high connectivity scenario. Finally, walking distance among key origins
and destinations dropped 9 percent from the low to moderate scenarios, and 18 percent from the
moderate to high scenarios.
Safety and Health
In recent years, many studies have focused on how built environment factors (such as street
connectivity and community) affect physical activity and health.
The literature shows the following safety and health-related benefits are associated with increased
street connectivity:
Traffic safety:
Street connectivity measures, in combination with traffic calming strategies, have a significant
potential to improve traffic safety (LVPC 2011). A local, well-connected network system
encourages slower and more cautious driving, since drivers encounter various travel modes and
more intersections. As discussed earlier, in a more connected network, the total VMTs will
decrease, which reduces exposure and improves safety. Marshall and Garrick (2008) studied
different cities in California with different street network shapes and densities. They found that
connectivity densities are correlated with road safety outcomes. The highest risks of fatal or severe
crashes occurred within low intersection densities. They found that street networks that combine
high network density with low connectivity, or low density with high connectivity, significantly
increase risks of severe crashes. In another study, Marshall and Garrick (2011) found that more
connected, multi-modal street design can significantly reduce traffic injury and fatality rates.
Eyes on the street
The Utah Foundation’s “Roads Less Traveled” Research Report points to a potential benefit that
could be worth researching further. One consequence of connectivity, the report notes, is “more
natural surveillance created by the opportunity of more eyes on the street adds a benefit of
safety.” This recalls the observations of Jane Jacobs in The Death and Life of Great American
Cities that two of the most important aspects of good urban neighborhoods are “eyes upon the
street,” or natural surveillance by inhabitants and proprietors, and a fairly continuous level of
sidewalk activity (Jacobs, 1961). Jacobs implies this connection between eyes on the street and a
connected network of public streets. The “public peace,” wrote Jacobs, is “kept by an intricate,

almost unconscious network of voluntary controls and standards among the people themselves.”
Jacobs’ observations led to the Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
movement, which sought in particular to make housing projects safe, and also found one cause of
unsafe spaces in housing projects was the “superblock” structure where public streets were cut
off in favor of open spaces for each apartment complex.
Effective infrastructure
Better street connectivity improves the investment in municipal infrastructure such as utilities
and services such as fire and emergency services.
The literature shows the following effective infrastructure-related benefits are associated with
increased street connectivity:
Faster service response times and larger service areas
As a study produced by the Lehigh Valley Planning Commission notes, good street connectivity
provides “greater, quicker and more direct access to an incident.” A 2008 study of municipal
services conducted by Charlotte, N.C., found that the citywide average response time rose from
4.5 minutes in the mid-1970s to 5.5 minutes in 2002, as neighborhoods with less-connected
street networks were built. But in subdivisions constructed since 2001, the average response time
had dropped thirty seconds, to 5 minutes. Cities in North Carolina such as Charlotte and Cary
added street connectivity minimums into subdivision ordinances about that time, which required
new developments to obey minimum street connectivity standards.
The Raleigh, N.C. Transportation and Planning Department studied fire and emergency
management system efficiencies in three different neighborhood types:
(1) older, traditional, gridded development;
(2) neighborhoods built in the 1970s and 1980s with limited connectivity; and
(3) developments from the late 1980s and 1990s with very limited connections and many cul-desacs and dead-ends.
They noted that “In all cases, the analysis showed far greater service efficiencies for those older
neighborhoods with greater street connectivity. Even when discounting the density of
development in these areas, the raw acreage covered in each case confirmed the greater
efficiency in fire response coverage for areas with better street connectivity.”
The 2008 Charlotte study found that building 300 feet of street between two subdivisions
provided a 17 percent increase in service area for a fire station. It saved the city of Charlotte
from having to build a fire station to serve the same area. The study also found that the typical
coverage area of a snowplow operator is 12 to 15 miles of streets but was six to eight miles in
areas with prevalent cul-de-sac streets.
Protection of public investment
Studies have also found that street connectivity protects public investment in infrastructure. The
Reason Foundation published a report called “Transportation for America and Taxpayers for
Common Sense titled The Most for Our Money: Taxpayer Friendly Solutions for the Nation’s

Transportation Challenges,” which found that “increasing connectivity of the street network will
help improve the efficiency of the transportation network, allowing limited federal funds to be
prioritized for pressing transportation needs…with less local traffic on overburdened roadways,
reduced wear and tear may prolong the life of many critical infrastructure links. The costs
associated with maintaining roadways have grown considerably over the last few years and
measures to extend their lifespan may reduce the burden of public expenditure.” (Zimmermann
et al., 2011)
Community livability
According to Partners for Livable Communities, livability is “the sum of the factors that add up to
a community’s quality of life.” These include the built and natural environments, economic
prosperity, social stability and equity, educational opportunity, and cultural, entertainment and
recreation possibilities. Consequently, livability is influenced by many of the other benefits
discussed in this literature review such as accessibility and walkability. For example, there are
several studies showing enhanced connectivity increases walking, biking, and transit use, which
are all factors that impact the characteristics of livable communities. Still, livability has its own
distinct benefits produced from good street connectivity.
The literature shows the following livable communities-related benefits are associated with
increased street connectivity:
Community accessibility:
Twaddell and Toth (2010) discuss the role of mobility, accessibility, livability and sustainability
for livable communities, and the importance of each of these factors. They recognize good street
connectivity as the major prerequisite for accessibility and livability.
Community walkability:
The ability to be a pedestrian in a neighborhood is related to livability in a number of ways (better
mobility and accessibility, lower pollution, safety, public health, the quality of natural and built
environment and similar). Straight streets, short block length, and good street connectivity indicate
walkability (Calthrope and Poticha 1993, Ewing 1997).
Community life:
Streets shape community interaction and community life (Southworth and Ben-Joseph 1997), and
streets have significant physical and social impacts on environment. Narrow streets with low traffic
are more friendly for pedestrians, increasing interaction among people. Narrow streets also do not
represent a barrier for the two communities on the opposite sides of the street. If the space is not
devoted to vehicular use only, different street scaping strategies can be applied, making the
environment nicer and healthier (less pollution and noise). However, most of the urban land is
devoted to vehicular use (such as streets, highways, parking lots), which in the U. S. is close to
one half of the total developed urban land.

INDIRECT BENEFITS

Safety and Health
In addition to direct benefits, street connectivity has been shown to offer indirect benefits related
to health, largely stemming from the health effects of increased physical activity.
Obesity:
In the United States, obesity rates have steadily increased from the 1980s in all states. There are
several other countries that are experiencing growth in obesity among their population. Several
studies have linked levels of street connectivity and obesity and body mass index (BMI) outcomes:




Connectivity is one of a few key ingredients of walkable neighborhoods that produce positive
BMI outcomes: Lawrence et al. (2004) surveyed body mass index (BMI) and travel pattern of
about 11,000 participants in the Atlanta, Georgia region, between 2000 and 2002. They
estimate the impact of land use mix, net residential density, and street connectivity on BMI,
time spent in car, and obesity. The results show a strong relation between land use mix and
obesity. Saelens et al. (2003) compared 107 adults in two neighborhoods in terms of built
environment and physical activity. High-walkability residential neighborhoods with higher
residential density, land use mix, and street connectivity reported higher safety and 70 minutes
more physical activity within a week than other neighborhoods. More connected networks lead
to more walking, and thus healthier weight. Brown et al. (2009) explored the impact of land
use measures on BMI, overweight, and obesity in Salt Lake County, Utah. They found that the
presence of walkable land uses (defined by walking accessibility or intersection density),
relates to healthy weight. Smith et al. (2008) measured neighborhood walkability by population
density, intersection density, block length, and land-use diversity in Salt Lake County, Utah,
from 2000 to 2006. They found increasing levels of walkability decrease the risk of excess
weight. Pedestrian-friendly streets also reduce the risk of obesity and overweight. Frank et al.
(2006) evaluated the association between a single index of walkability that incorporated land
use mix, street connectivity (intersection per square kilometer), net residential density, and
retail floor area ratios, and health-related outcomes in King County, Washington. They found
that enhanced connectivity can increase walkability and consequently increase physical
activity and decrease BMI, obesity, and even NOx emissions.
Connectivity limits time spent in the car: Lawrence et al. concluded that street connectivity
impacts walking time and minutes spent in car, which consequently impacts BMI and
population health.

Mortality and disease prevention
The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that regular use of bicycles (for about three
hours per week) can reduce the mortality risk by about 28%. Similarly, consistent walking of
about 30 minutes per day can reduce mortality risk by about 22%. Physical activity also reduces
occurrences of cardiovascular diseases, type 2 diabetes, breast cancer, color cancer and similar.
These reductions are between 10% and 30%, according to the WHO reports. Transit use also has
significant advantages on people’s heath through increase in physical activity (walking to and
from transit). About 29% of people walking to and from transit achieve the recommended level
of 30 minutes of daily physical activity (Besser and Dannenberg, 2005).

Economic Vitality
Inter-regional, regional, and local connectivity has been the subject of several studies and the
development of economic impact models that combine transportation benefits with dynamic
economic impact analysis. The models generally focus on the following measures of economic
activity:





Increases in productivity
Job growth
Reduced transportation/materials costs
Increased customer base/revenue

Most of the models are built on economic input/output models that measure the relationships
between various sectors of the economy of a country, state, region, county, or metropolitan area.
Other measures of economic vitality related to transportation projects, including intermodal
accessibility, include access-related measures and geo-spatial measures such as geographic
customer base and financial measures (for instance, sales per square foot and real property
values). Benefits from improved connectivity vary based on the scale, geography, and land use
type. Many of the benefits are measurable in the economy or in the fiscal well-being of
households and governments. Some of the benefits are intangible such as increased personal time
to spend with family and friends, improved overall health, and well-being and improved area air
quality.
The literature shows the following economic vitality-related benefits are associated with increased
street connectivity:

Increased market accessibility
On a regional level, improved connectivity reduces travel times of trips, resulting in increased
market accessibility. Several models have been developed to measure regional benefits to
improved transportation networks. These include the Transportation Economic Development
Impact System (TREDIS ) model, developed by the TREDIS Software group, that measures total
economic impact by industry and productivity impacts for a region and estimates increases in
employment and population for an area and impacts on overall competitiveness. The TREDIS
model combines the Regional Economic Models, Inc (REMI) economic model with travel
demand and geospatial modeling.
Lower materials costs
The reduction of travel time of trips on a regional level also results in lower materials costs
because goods can reach their destinations quicker and in a shorter distance saving both wages
and fuel.
Increased sales
For a local or neighborhood retailer, connectivity results in improved access to an area’s
customer base, generally resulting in higher sales per square foot.
Lower household costs
For local residential property owners, connectivity results in lower household transportation
costs and increased personal time. Measures on the local level include job growth in all sectors
including service and retail, as well as local tax benefits such as sales and property taxes. This
leads to increase in job density which translates in to higher job accessibility lowering
transportation costs for household.
Walkable communities command price premiums
Street connectivity is a key ingredient in walkable communities, which has its own set of benefits,
including economic ones. As researcher Keith Bartholemew writes, “Consumers seem willing to
pay a premium to locate in New Urbanist developments that feature higher-than-average densities,
a mix of housing types, commercial centers, interconnected streets, and prominent public spaces”
(Bartholomew, K. and Ewing, R. 2011) Compact developments can command a price premium of
as much as 40 to 100 percent compared to houses in nearby single-use subdivisions, according to
Chris Leinberger of the Brookings Institution (2008). The homes at Kentlands, Maryland sell at a
25 percent premium over comparable large-lot developments in the same zip code (Eppli and Tu
1999a). Song and Knaap (2003) show a $24,255 premium for Portland-area homes in New
Urbanist areas compared to those in conventional suburban neighborhoods. The hedonic price
literature confirms that the market shifts in favor of pedestrian- and transit-design development
indicated by survey data and demographic analyses are, indeed, being capitalized into real estate
prices” (Bartholomew and Ewing). In addition, when comparing walkability across the Portland
metro area, those neighborhoods with above average walkability tend to attract a premium between
$4,000 to $34,000 when compared to rest of the region (Cortright 2009).
Walkable areas can also have major impacts on socioeconomic factors. Residents of places with
poor walkability are generally less affluent and have lower educational attainment than places with
good walkability. (Leinberger, et. al. 2012). Places with more walkability features have also

become more gentrified over the past decade (Leinberger, et. al. 2012). Less walkable places also
tend to have lower incomes, higher unemployment, and lower education levels. This could provide
a barrier for households wishing to move to more walkable areas where there may be a supply of
suitable jobs and educational opportunities (Litman 2012).
Improvements in street design can also have an impact on retail rents. Redevelopment of plazas,
and redesigns of sidewalks to make it more convenient and safer to walk has coincided with a
doubling of rents near Times Square since improvements were made in 2009 (NYC DOT 2013).
A Brookings study of the Washington, DC area found that office and retail spaces in areas with
good walkability rented for $8.88/sq. ft. and $6.92/sq. ft. more per year, respectively, compared to
places with fair walkability, holding household income levels constant. Another study showed that
a 10 percent increase in walkability showed a 1 to 9 percent growth in property value and made
the point that walkable property types generated higher income and therefore have the potential to
generate returns as good as or better than less walkable properties, as long as they are priced
correctly (Pivo 2010). More than 5,600 property sales in Jefferson County, Alabama were analyzed
between 2004 and 2008, finding that there is a premium for walkability and that this impact
reverses as neighborhoods become more car-dependent in the suburbs (Rauterkus 2011)
Transit-related economic benefits:
As discussed earlier, street connectivity has significant impacts on trip mode choice. Many studies
looked into economic benefits of public transit (APTA 2012, 2009, Tri-Met 2010, Detroit Transit
2006). The economic benefits of public transit include creating jobs, stimulating development,
boosting business revenue, increasing local and state revenues, saving employers money,
decreasing pollution, and conserving energy. Encouraging non-motorized modes of transportation
and coordinating these modes with public transit, accessibility and, thus, efficiency is increased
multiplicatively (Litman).
There are benefits to hotels as a result of improved transit connectivity. From 2006 to 2013,
communities with direct transit access to airport terminals experienced a 10.9 percent increase in
Average Daily Rates and Revenue per available room (American Public Transportation
Association 2013)
Improved transit connectivity can result in improved regional economic capture. In Baxter County,
Texas, a study estimated that the County loses approximately $307 thousand in regional income
and 8.4 jobs for every million dollars of expenditures switched to auto. The same million spent on
bus operations will generate nearly $1.2 million in regional income and 62.2 jobs. General
household consumption is positively affected by $426 thousand with an increase in 17 jobs (Miller
1999).

Bicycling related economic benefits:
Street connectivity increases active transportation. Increases in biking and walking will boost
economic growth in several major ways (Urban Land Institute 2016, Gotschi 2011):

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Increasing revenue for bicycle-related industries
Fueling redevelopment to boost real estate values
Helping companies attract talented workers
Making workers healthier and more productive
Increasing retail visibility and sales volume
Increasing tourism

Many studies have also explored the economic benefits of Traffic Calming Measures (TCM), and
reported the same benefits mentioned above (Sermons and Seredich 2001, Local Government
Commission’s Center for Livable Communities 2002, Burden 2001, Kohl 1999, Boarnet and
Greenwald 2001). In TCM section, we will show that TCMs are important part of enhanced
connectivity.
Bicycle networks can have a positive impact on home values. The median home values in
Minneapolis-St. Paul increased by $510 for every quarter of mile near an off-street bicycle trail,
while homes within half-mile of Indiana’s Monon Trail had an average of 11 percent increase in
sale price when compared to similar homes further away (Alliance for Biking & Walking 2013).
Additionally, regional economies can benefit as well. A case study of North Carolina’s Outer
Banks concluded that the one-time investment into the bicycle network resulted in an annual
economic impact that is nine times greater, supporting more than 1,400 annual jobs (North
Carolina DOT 2004).
Worker productivity and numerous health benefits have been associated to biking, those who bike
regularly saw a 32 percent decrease in sick days taken and a 55 percent decrease in healthcare
costs, all while seeing a 55 percent increase in productivity (US Department of Health and Human
Services 2002).
The past literature shows the significant impact of non-motorized transportation on economic
benefits. Street connectivity is one of the many factors that encourage non-motorized
transportation, thus it is essential to consider other factors such as transit oriented design, dedicated
bike lanes, and quality sidewalks.
Environmental Stewardship
Street connectivity has major impacts on the environment. Shifts towards transit and active
transportation modes in a connected network reduce VMT, delays, and usage of automobiles which
reduces air pollution, noise, and energy consumption.

GOALS WITH INHERENT IMPLIED BENEFITS
Some of the identified community goals have not been explored in the literature to a large extent,
but street connectivity offers inherent benefits related to them.
Interlocal and Regional Compatibility
Past research efforts used the term “internal connectivity” and “external connectivity” for
measuring the connectivity of specific region within itself, and “inter-local connectivity” of that
region respectively (Dill 2004, Taylor and Van Nostrand, 2008, VTPI 2015). Studies on inter-local

connectivity are rare, but measures can be developed based on regional connections to arterials
and other neighborhoods. Areas of interest are in connections between state and local jurisdictions
for issues such as transit access and freight.
Overcoming Geographical Barriers
Natural features such as rivers and man-made features, like highways and freeways, often serve as
or create barriers to direct local travel, particularly for bicycle and pedestrian travel (VTPI 2015).
This is a so-called “barrier effect” (Litman 2016), which reduces accessibility for active
transportation modes and forces a shift to motorized travel. In order to help alleviate the barrier
effect, street connectivity strategies need to be combined with other design strategies. Albeit
expensive, these strategies can help improve connectivity across such barriers, including special
bridges or sometimes under crossings (freeways).
STREET CONNECTIVITY DRAWBACKS
As with any public policy decision, tradeoffs exist regarding decisions to make street networks
more connected. An important part of this study is identifying those tradeoffs, so we must
understand the drawbacks, both real and perceived, of increased connections.
Some literature, most notably Portland Metro, 2004, and the 2011 Lehigh Valley Planning
Commission study, discusses these drawbacks. They include:
Cost: Providing increased connections costs money, whether implemented by cities or
developers. However, studies do not provide details on these potential increased costs. On the
other side, there are strategies that communities implement to avoid increase in costs, such as
narrower street standards, avoiding long streets, limiting maximum block length, landscaping,
different treatments of cul-de-sacs etc (Handy 2002, OKI 2007, WSDOT 2006). When it comes
to utilities and their maintenance, it was observed that better connectivity actually can decrease
these costs, since the utility connections are improved, easier to access and maintain (OKI 2007).
Developers may also argue that improved street connectivity decreases the amount of salable
lend they will have for development, since potential building lots may be used for transportation
connections (Handy 2002, OKI 2007). Again the practice does not provide any actual
measurements to support this. However, incorporating appropriate traffic control and security
features into connected streets, as well as the opportunity to have more diversity of uses, can
offset the potential decrease in property values (VTPI 2015).
Residential traffic: Residents’ concerns about increased street connectivity are often related to
increased traffic on residential streets (LVPC 2011, WSDOT 2006, Handy 2002). While
increased traffic on residential streets has been observed in some studies (Zhou 2013, Charlotte
1), there are strategies that are implemented in the field to keep the traffic increase and traffic
speeds at tolerant levels. It is also important to provide good arterial and collector streets on the
network borderlines that will provide more capacity and higher speeds for non-residential traffic,
therefore minimizing the possibility that this traffic will use residential streets.
Crime: The increase in crime rates in relation to street connectivity has not been quantified in
practice. A study performed in Western Australia (Foster et al. 2014) did not find that better
street connectivity alone is not related to the increase in crime rate, although it correlated more

walking and activity with increase in crime. Rather, the study found that the presence in local
destinations, especially those that serve alcohol, is related to the increase in crime rate. Another
London study (Hillier and Sahbaz, 2005) found that the risk of crime is less in well-connected
network with more activity, following the “safety in numbers” principle. That study also found
that the high-tax properties on cul-de-sacs are more vulnerable to crime in small cul-de-sacs, and
that dwellings on cul-de-sacs have twice as many burglaries as dwellings on connected streets.
Impact of new intersections: Connectivity could lead to diminished vehicle capacity on major
streets due to new intersections.
More impervious street surface: Connectivity can create more stormwater runoff.
Political costs: Connectivity often comes with high political costs if the proposed changes are
unfamiliar or unpopular.
Market forces: Connectivity is not always aligned with current market forces in housing market.

HOW CAN WE ACHIEVE STREET CONNECTIVITY? EXPLORING THE
MOST APPROPRIATE STRATEGIES
Review of the literature points to several types of strategies to improve the different measures of
connectivity and hence achieve the benefits described above. A lot of research efforts discussed
earlier were implemented into city guidelines, ordinances, and practices. Policies should be
adopted to require a local street circulation pattern that provides access to property and connections
to collector and arterial streets, neighborhood activity centers, and emergency access.
Plans and policies
A jurisdiction’s planning documents often create the foundations for good connectivity. While
often not explicitly requiring types of street connections, plans can create the justification for
street connectivity within a community’s overall vision, and set forth the template for the largescale connections that are important within a community.
Explicit general plan policies supporting street connectivity
Including street connectivity in a community’s general plan or other primary vision document
creates the directive for connectivity in the foundation of policy.
Policies to design for all users
Directing city staff to design places and networks with all users in mind inherently points these
efforts toward better street connectivity. Addressing the needs of different modes leads to a finer
network of connections. For example, Fort Collins, CO, requires that all local interconnected
systems be designed with all users in mind (automobile, transit, bicycle, and pedestrian).
Policies encouraging redundant and direct connections to destinations
Transportation master plans, area plans, and other planning documents can encourage and
support the creation of multiple connections among destinations and neighborhoods. They can
outline the street pattern and connectivity standards and emphasize that the local street system
provides multiple direct connections between local destinations.

Portland, Oregon’s right-of-way requirements and standards include pedestrian connectivity.
Their code requires direct routes for bicycles and pedestrians in residential areas and between
neighborhood facilities. It also has specific standards and requirements for through streets and
pedestrian connections which allow the most direct route.
Connections to outside jurisdictions
Planning documents, especially large-scale plans such as transportation master plans, can
identify preferred connections among jurisdictions. These inter-jurisdictional connections can
also be coordinated by larger agencies such as state departments of transportation and
metropolitan planning organizations.
Types of street networks
Planning documents can identify preferred patterns of streets that generally create good
connectivity, such as grids of small blocks. This practice is long-established in the United States,
with the well-connected networks of cities such as Washington, D.C., New York City, and
Sanavvah, Georgia, establishing effective street network planning.
Street and development standards
Standards are the complementary piece to plans and policies – they are concrete rules that
implement the directives of the high-level policy. In some cases, standards apply to public
infrastructure such as streets designed and built by jurisdictions. In other cases, standards apply
more to private developers who build streets and other connections as part of their projects.
Minimum connectivity standards
Codes can require that developments achieve a minimum connectivity index (see metrics section),
or reward developments that have a high connectivity index with various incentives. Lehi, UT is
developing draft code language that requires new developments to meet s minimum connectivity
index.
Maximum block lengths / local intersection spacing
Codes can also require maximum block lengths, which is essentially the spacing of local street
intersections. Best practices are generally average intersection spacing for local-streets of 300400 feet, and maximum intersection spacing for local streets of about 600 feet. Lehi, Utah,
includes maximum block lengths in its draft code language; the exact maximum depends on the
zone the street is located in.
Maximum block size
Another tool to create dense networks is to limit the size of whole blocks. Best practice is generally
a maximum block size of 5-12 acres.
Cul-de-sac management
Eliminating, limiting, or otherwise managing cul-de-sacs is a major direct way to increase street
connectivity in new development. Development standards can:


Prohibit cul-de-sacs: PennDOT’s guidelines for improving connectivity (PennDOT
2012) note that Cranberry Township in Pennsylvania does not recommend approval of
cul-de-sacs, while Peters Township, PA, prohibits dead-end streets.





Limit cul-de-sacs to a certain percentage of total streets: for example, to 20% of streets.
Limit the maximum length of cul-de-sacs: for example, to 200 feet.
Provide specific exceptions: such as only when they can access land not otherwise
accessible through a connected street pattern due to topography or other constraints.

Pedestrian circulation plans
Pedestrian circulation plans provide a concept of how pedestrians will move around and through
a development.
Redundant access to destinations
Jurisdictions can require developments to provide multiple routes to key destinations for most, if
not, all places in the community. The Kentucky Transportation Cabinet encourages proposed
developments to provide multiple direct connections in its local street system to and between local
destinations, such as parks, schools, and shopping.
Access to arterials
In the same vein as providing multiple routes between a community and local destinations, city
codes can require multiple access connections between a development and arterial streets.
Non-arterial access to destinations
Jurisdictions can require that new developments provide access from the community to
destinations within it without the use of arterial streets, thereby preserving capacity on arterial
streets for non-local traffic. The Kentucky Transportation Cabinet encourages jurisdictions to
require that a proposed development shall provide multiple direct connections in its local street
system to and between local destinations without requiring the use of arterial streets.
Maximum arterial intersection spacing
For large developments including several arterial streets, standards can create maximum amounts
of space between arterial street intersections. Best practices limit maximum intersection spacing
for arterial streets to about 1,000 feet. The Kentucky Transportation Cabinet recommends
jurisdictions require a proposed development shall provide a potentially signalized, full-movement
intersection of a collector or a local street with Arterial Street at an interval of at least every 1,320
feet or one-quarter mile along arterial streets. A proposed development shall provide an additional
non-signalized, potentially limited movement, intersection of a collector or local street with an
arterial street at an interval not to exceed 660 feet between the full movement collector and the
local street intersection.
Maximum spacing between bike and pedestrian connections
Standards can require a maximum spacing between pedestrian and bicycle connections through a
development and across major barriers such as arterial streets. Best practices place this maximum
at about 350 feet.
Emphasis on bike and pedestrian connections
Connected streets don’t necessarily include accommodations for pedestrians and cyclists – and
this creates defacto disconnection for those users. Standards can ensure that pedestrians and

cyclists can use all streets, primarily by requiring sidewalks or other paths. In some cases,
connections can be made for cyclists and pedestrians only, such as in connecting cul-de-sacs.
Limits on width of streets
Limiting the width of new streets achieves connectivity (and mitigates its negative effects) in a
number of ways, including facilitating pedestrian crossing, discouraging through traffic, reducing
speeds, and helping to offset increased costs to developers of building more streets required to
achieve better connectivity. Best practices limit local street pavement widths to 24-32 feet (varies
with on-street parking restrictions).
Restrict private and gated streets
Jurisdictions can improve connectivity by limiting or discouraging gated communities and other
restricted access roads.
Street stub requirements
Jurisdictions can require developments to create street “stubs,” that is, streets that are initially
dead ends but can be connected when adjacent parcels are developed in the future. The Kentucky
Transportation Cabinet’s guidelines recommend that each development “shall incorporate and
continue all collector or local streets stubbed to the boundary of the development plan by
previously approved but unbuilt development or existing development.”

Retrofit tools
Many Utah communities are built-out and many lack good street connectivity. Yet, as with
newly-built communities, improved street connectivity can help achieve many community goals
in built-out communities as well. However, a different set of strategies is needed for this street
connectivity retro-fitting.











Planning document guidance on key connections
Complete streets
Pedestrian crossing improvements
Cul-de-sac connections – full street
Cul-de-sac connections – bike – pedestrian
Pedestrian pass-throughs to arterial streets and commercial areas
Large land use pass-throughs and entries
Transit stop and destination walk-sheds
Leverage easements for active transportation
Grade separation

Managing Street Connectivity
An additional set of strategies help maintain and implement the benefits of street connectivity and
mitigate its drawbacks.

Traffic Calming Measures
Traffic calming measures (TCM) are means to force speed reduction. As mentioned before,
enhanced connectivity increases the accessibility and path alternatives for each trip. Many of these
paths may be located in residential areas. If not managed, multiple path alternatives could lead to
increased congestion and decreased safety in these locations. TCMs can help preventing this
situation, thus they are an important part of street connectivity.
TCMs originally were developed for safety purposes by lowering vehicular speeds. In recent years,
TCMs are known as ways to manage traffic volumes on network links. In this context, for
motorists, TCMs will reduce the utility (increase the cost) of using a specific link (usually in a
residential area) by reducing speed and increasing travel time.
According to FHWA, general objectives of TCMs are:
-

To encourage citizen involvement in the traffic calming process by incorporating
preferences and requirements of the citizens

-

To reduce vehicular speeds

-

To promote safe and pleasant conditions for motorists, bicyclists, pedestrians, and
residents

-

To improve the environment and livability of neighborhood streets

-

To improve real and perceived safety for non-motorized street users

-

To discourage use of residential streets by non-citizens cut through vehicular traffic

The Institute of Traffic Engineers defines four categories of TCM techniques including: vertical
deflections, horizontal deflections, road narrowing, and closures. Different TCMs and their impact
on traffic are well described in past literature (MUTCD, DOTs policies, Ewing 1999, Ewing 2006,
Zhou et al. 2013, Lee et al. 2013).
Transit-Friendly Design
Enhanced connectivity by itself may not be able to provide the desired impact on mode choice,
and consequently on health, environment, and active transportation. Several other improvements
must be made simultaneously to reach the expected results. One of these measures is transitfriendly design (TFD). TFD is set of design guidelines that ease the integration of transit facilities
into residential and non-residential areas (Calgary Transit Division, Transportation Department of
the City of Calgary 2006, Ewing 1999). TFD will improve the attractiveness of transit modes by
increasing its utility. Consequently, TFDs will decrease traffic congestion and improve air quality
(TransIT Services of Frederick County 2009, TSRP Report 33 1998).
As mentioned above, TFDs increase the utility of transit modes. TFD guidelines focus on the
following eight principles (Calgary Transit Division, Transportation Department of the City of
Calgary 2006):
1) Provide appropriate community densities
2) Minimize walking distance (Figure 3)

3) Provide a mix of land uses
4) Organize density, land use, and buildings to benefit from transit
5) Create a pedestrian-friendly environment
6) Route transit into the community
7) Reduce transit travel time
8) Build quality, user-friendly transit facilities

FIGURE 3 Undesirable and Desirable Designs for Walking Access
Complete Streets & Connected Streets
Complete street policies emphasize a high degree of street connectivity. While complete street
policies are not directly related to street connectivity, these policies can support connectivity by
ensuring that the links in the network cater to all types of users.
The following is adopted from Smart Growth America and National Complete Streets Coalition
report on “Implementing Complete Street” (factsheet 1).
“In a complete network, short, local trips can be taken without burdening the arterial
systems with more cars. Roads in sprawling communities see up to 75 percent more
travel demand on those arterials than similar arterials in connected networks (Proft
and Condon 2001). People with a complete, connected network of options may opt
to reach their destination entirely without driving on arterials, or will instead walk,
bike, or take public transportation. One study found that single-family households
located in a network of Complete Streets made a similar number of total trips as
those in an incomplete network, but made significantly fewer by car, instead opting
to walk (Khattak and Rodriguez 2005). Complete streets with enhanced
connectivity reduce the fatal and severe crashes (Marshall and Garrick 2010). In
addition, they provide a better platform to for emergency vehicles to reach their
destination safer.
Some places with Complete Streets policies have included provisions specifically
to increase connectivity. For example, Virginia's Complete Streets policy was
augmented by a new policy to end maintenance support for new streets that end in
cul-de-sacs. Other communities have required new developments to connect into

the existing grid in multiple locations. Some built-out communities with a
sprawling road system have looked for opportunities to create more non-motorized
connections by installing paths that connect cul-de-sacs and other disconnected
streets to nearby roads. Even when roads are connected, there may still be a need
for connected grids of walking and bicycling networks. The incorporation of
Complete Streets into all of Seattle, Washington’s plans helps to identify gaps in
the network for different modes and prioritizes investment to create complete
networks for all modes.”
Market strategies for Implementing Connectivity
A key strategy for implementing connectivity is to ensure that incentives and rewards accrue to
the level of government or the private developer making the initial investment. These tools
include private market incentives such as higher rents and property values through higher
densities and public tools such as value capture, tax increment support, and special assessment
districts.
State-of-Practice Street Connectivity Standards and Requirements
Tables 2 and 3 summarize street connectivity standards and requirements in various U.S. cities
(Handy 2003, VTPI 2015).
TABLE 2 Street Connectivity Standards

Location

Max. Local
Street
Intersection
Spacing
(feet)

Max.
Arterial
Intersection
Spacing
(feet)

Street Stubs
Required?

Portland
Metro

530

530

No

Portland, OR

530

530

Yes

Beaverton,
OR

530

1000

Yes

Eugene, OR

600

None

Yes

Fort Collins,
CO

Max. Block
size 7-12
acres

660 - 1320

Yes

Boulder, CO

300 - 350

none

Yes

Huntersville,
NC
Cornelius,
NC
Conover, NC
Raleigh, NC

250 – 500

No data

Yes

200 – 1320
400 – 1200
1500

Yes
No data
No data

Yes
Yes

Cul-De-Sacs
Allowed
No (With
Exceptions)
No (With
Exceptions)
No (With
Exceptions)
No (With
Exceptions)
Limited
No (With
Exceptions)
No (With
Exceptions)
No (With
Exceptions)
Yes
Yes

Max. CulDe-Sac
Length
(feet)
200
200
200
400
660
350
350
250
500
400 – 800

Cary, NC
Middletown,
DE
Orlando, FL

Index = 1.2

1250 – 1500

Yes

Index = 1.7

None

Yes

Index = 1.7

None

Yes

Yes
Yes,
discouraged
Yes

900
1000
700

TABLE 3 Street Connectivity Requirements

Location

Max. Spacing
Between Bike/Ped
Connections (feet)

Local Street
Width (feet)

Private
Street
Allowed?

Gated
Streets
Allowed?

Portland Metro

330

<28

Not Regulated

Not
Regulated

Portland, OR

330

Limited

No

Beaverton, OR

330

20-34

Limited

No

Eugene, OR

Connections
required at cul-desacs

20-34

Limited

Limited

Fort Collins, CO

700

24-36

Limited

No

Boulder, Co

300-350
recommended

24-36

No

No

Huntersville, NC

None

18-26

No

No

Cornelius, NC

None

18-26

Yes

No

Conover, NC

None

22

No

No

Raleigh, NC

None

26

Discouraged

Discouraged

Cary, NC

If index waived

27

yes

No

Middletown, DE

No data

24-32

No

No

Orlando, FL

None

24 min.

Yes

No

STREET CONNECTIVITY CASE STUDIES
Street connectivity has been a subject of numerous research efforts. However, incorporating
strategies into actual plans and designs in many cases is not straightforward. Agencies across the
world and the U.S. have been working towards providing ordinances that would incorporate
street connectivity strategies into requirements. Through the case studies presented here, it can
be seen that there is no universal solution that fits all situations. Depending on the actual
networks, goals, and requirements, different strategies lead to different benefits. The presented
case studies show also the lessons learned from these efforts.
Charlotte: Retrofit Street Connectivity (Charlotte 1)
The street connectivity program of Charlotte Department of Transportation (CDOT) started in
2006 and monitors inventory and implementation of needed street connections within and between
neighborhoods as well as the construction of new connectors and local streets to provide improved
access and connectivity for future development. Potential street connections are analyzed through
a GIS mapping tool for potential land use linkages, mode impact, road network impact, and routedirectness impact. CDOT’s Street Connectivity program, however, has encountered significant
public resistance to new street links. Obstacles to public approval include perceptions that street
connections will increase traffic speeds or volumes, affect neighborhood crime rates, or lower
property values. Street-connection retrofit projects that win community support need to have
political support, flexibility in the scope and timeline of the project to accommodate community
concerns and requests, and clear, tangible benefits for neighborhoods both “upstream” and
“downstream” of a proposed street link.
Cary: Subdivision Ordinances (Cary 1)
Through the process of creating its 2001 Land Use Plan, the town of Cary, NC, formulated goals
for itself: retain a sense of place, have a more human-scale and pedestrian-oriented environment,
avoid strip development along arterials, focus commercial activity into discrete nodes, and increase
connectivity. They came up with several policies including:
1. Developments should be linked by roads and continuous sidewalks and have easy-to- use
internal-circulation networks for all modes of travel.
2. For residential subdivisions, the design guidelines recommended reducing the use of culde-sacs or adapting them to include pedestrian or bicycle connections.
3. Blocks should be no more than 1,250′ in length to create minimum street-connectivity
standards for new residential development.
4. Requiring vehicular and pedestrian access to at least two public streets for all developments
with more than 100 residential units.
5. Creating a pedestrian connectivity index to supplement the existing vehicular-oriented
street connectivity index.
Through these street connectivity measures, the city managed to improve a sense of community at
these places.

Bremen: Traffic Cells (Goltz-Richter 2003)
In the early 1960s, the city of Bremen was divided into four sectors, or “traffic cells.” Automobiles
are allowed to travel within each cell, but to travel between these cells they must use a
circumferential ring road. Pedestrian, bicycle and transit vehicles can travel directly between these
cells. As a result, vehicle traffic volumes are significantly reduced and travel by other modes is
significantly improved. The author made an interesting observation from this case study::
“To conclude, in order to make our city a good place for our inhabitants to live, and an attractive
place for business, integration of our transportation systems is key. No single element plays the
main role, rather the interaction between the various agents form an integrated transport policy and
integrated urban development policy.”
Gothenburg: Reduce Traffic & Increase Safety (Vuchic 1999)
The city of Gothenburg is Sweden’s second largest city, with almost half a million residents. In
the late 1960s, the city’s historic center was divided into five traffic cells. Automobiles can travel
within each cell but not directly between cells, they must use a ring road. Pedestrians, bicyclists,
and transit vehicles can travel directly between cells. The result has been a 48% reduction in
vehicle traffic despite increased vehicle ownership by residents, improved pedestrian and cycling
conditions (and a 45% reduction in pedestrian accidents), and improved transit service. This is an
example of a traffic management strategy combined with street connectivity strategies, which
created better and safer conditions for transit and non-motorized transportation modes.

REFERENCES
1. Allen, E. (1997) Measuring the New Urbanism with Community Indicators. In Contrasts
and Transitions, American Planning Association National Conference American Planning
Association, San Diego, CA.
2. APTA. 2009. Public Transportation Saves Energy and Helps Our Environment. See
http://bit.ly/MF3AKu
3. APTA. 2012. Economic Recovery, Promoting Growth, the Benefits of Public
Transportation. See http://bit.ly/GVcoKx
4. Aultman-Hall, L., Roorda, M. and Baetz, B. (1997) Using GIS for Evaluation of
Neighborhood Pedestrian Accessibility. Journal of Urban Planning and Development, 123,
10-17.
5. Bartholomew, K., and R. Ewing. Hedonic Price Effects of Pedestrian- and Transit-Oriented
Development. In Journal of Planning Literature Vol. 26, No. 1, 2011, pp. 18-34
6. Berrigan, D. et al. (2010). Associations between street connectivity and active
transportation. International Journal of Health Geographics, 9:20
7. Besser, L. M., and A. L. Dannenberg. Walking to Public Transit: Steps to Help Meet
Physical Activity Recommendations. In American Journal of Preventive Medicine, Vol.
29/4, Elsevier, 2005, pp. 273-280.
8. Boarnet, M. and Crane, R. (2001) The influence of land use on travel behavior:
specification and estimation strategies. Transportation Research Part A, 35, 823-845.

9. Brown, B. B., Yamada, I., Smith, K. R., Zick, C. D., Kowaleski-Jones, L., & Fan, J. X.
(2009). Mixed land use and walkability: Variations in land use measures and relationships
with BMI, overweight, and obesity. Health & Place, 15(4), 1130-1141.
10. Burden, Dan. January 8, 2001. Building Communities with Transportation. Online
Distinguished Lecture Presentation from the Transportation Research Board. Retrieved
October 7, 2002, from
www.lgc.org/freepub/land_use/presentations/burden_01_08_2001/.
11. Calthorpe, P., & Poticha, S. (1993). The next American metropolis: Ecology, communities,
and the American dream. New York: Princeton Architectural Press.
12. Cary (1). http://walksteps.org/case-studies/cary-subdivision-ordinances/
13. Cervero, R. and Radisch, C. (1995) Travel Choices in Pedestrian Versus Automobile
Oriented Neighborhoods. Transport Policy, 3, 127-141.
14. Cervero, R., & Kockelman, K. (1997). Travel demand and the 3Ds: density, diversity, and
design. Transportation Research Part D: Transport and Environment, 2(3), 199-219.
15. Charlotte (1). http://walksteps.org/case-studies/charlotte-retrofit-street-connectivity/
16. Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation. Giving Pedestrians an Edge—Using Street
Layout to Influence Transportation Choice, Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation,
2008.
17. Connectivity—Zoning, S., & Ordinance, S. M. (2009). Division of Planning. Kentucky
Transportation Cabinet.
18. Detroit Transit. 2006. “Economic Benefits of Public Transit: Essential Support for a Strong
Economy.” See http://bit.ly/GRNxmz
19. Dill. J. Measuring Network Connectivity for Bicycling and Walking. Presented at 83rd
Annual Meeting of the Transportation Research Board, Washington, D. C., 2004.
20. Ewing, R. (1996) Best Development Practices: Doing the Right Thing and Making Money
at the Same Time, American Planning Association, Chicago, IL.
21. Ewing, R. H., & Florida Department of Community Affairs. (1997). Transportation & land
use innovations: When you can’t pave your way out of congestion. Chicago: American
Planning Association.
22. Ewing, R. Impacts of Traffic Calming. In Transportation Quarterly, Vol. 55, Washington
2001.
23. Ewing, R. Pedestrian and Transit-Friendly Design: A Primer for Smart Growth. American
Planning Association, 1999.
24. Ewing, R. Traffic Calming: State of the Practice. Publication FHWA-RD-99-135, Federal
Highway Administration and Institute of Transportation Engineers, Washington, D.C.,
1999.
25. Ewing, R., and R. Cervero. Travel and the Built Environment: A Meta-Analysis. In Journal
of the American Planning Association, Vol. 76, Issue 3, June 2010, pp. 265 – 294
26. Ewing, R., M. Greenwald, M. Zhang, J. Walters, M. Feldman, R. Cervero, L. Frank, and J.
Thomas. Traffic Generated by Mixed-Use Developments: A Six-Region Study Using
Consistent Built Environmental Measures. In Journal of the Urban Planning and
Development, Vol. 137, Issue 3, 2011.
27. FactSheet
(1).
http://www.smartgrowthamerica.org/documents/cs/factsheets/csnetworks.pdf
28. FHWA Functional Classification Guidelines. U. S. Department of Transportation, Federal
Highway administration, Updated April 4, 2011

29. Foster, S. et al. Does walkable neighbourhood design influence the association between
objective crime and walking? In International Journal of Behavioral Nutrition and
Physical Activity, 11:100, 2014.
30. Frank, L. D., Andresen, M. A., & Schmid, T. L. (2004). Obesity relationships with
community design, physical activity, and time spent in cars. American journal of preventive
medicine, 27(2), 87-96.
31. Frank, L. D., Sallis, J. F., Conway, T. L., Chapman, J. E., Saelens, B. E., & Bachman, W.
(2006). Many pathways from land use to health: associations between neighborhood
walkability and active transportation, body mass index, and air quality. Journal of the
American Planning Association, 72(1), 75-87.
32. Frank, L. D., Stone Jr., B. and Bachman, W. (2000) Linking land use with household
vehicle emissions in the central Puget Sound: methodological framework and findings.
Transportation Research Part D, 5, 173- 196.
33. Gotschi, T. (2011). Costs and benefits of bicycling investments in Portland, Oregon.
Journal of Physical Activity and Health, 8(1), S49-S58.
34. Greenwald, M. and Boarnet, M. (2001) The Built Environment as a Determinant of
Walking Behavior: Analyzing Non-Work Pedestrian Travel in Portland, Oregon. In 80th
Annual Meeting of the Transportation Research Board, Paper 01-2792 Washington, DC.
35. Handy, S. (1996) Urban form and pedestrian choices: Study of Austin neighborhoods.
Transportation Research Record, 1552, 135-44.
36. Handy, S. L., Boarnet, M. G., Ewing, R., & Killingsworth, R. E. (2002). How the built
environment affects physical activity: views from urban planning. American journal of
preventive medicine, 23(2), 64-73.
37. Handy, S. Street Connectivity: You Can Get There from Here. American Planning
Association, 2002.
38. Handy, S., R. G. Paterson, K. Butler. Planning for Street Connectivity: Getting from Here
to There. Report No. 515, American Planning Association, 2003.
39. Hess, P. M. (1997) Measures of Connectivity. Places, 11, 58-65.
40. Hess, P. M., Moudon, A. V., Snyder, M. C. and Stanilov, K. (1999) Site Design and
Pedestrian Travel. Transportation Research Record, 1674, 9-19.
41. Hillier, B., and O. Sahbaz. High Resolution Analysis of Crime Patterns in Urban Street
Networks: an initial statistical sketch from an ongoing study of a London borough.
Proceedings Space Syntax, 5th International Symposium, Delft, 2005.
42. Khattak, A. & Rodriguez, D. (2005). “Travel behavior in neo-traditional neighborhood
developments: A case study in USA.” Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice,
39 (6). pp. 481-500
43. Kohl, Joseph. June 5, 1999. Transforming Main Street Retail. Summary of plenary speech
of the Congress for the New Urbanism. Retrieved November 7, 2002, from
www.cnu.org/pdf/Kohl.pdf.
44. Lee, G., Joo, S., Oh, C., & Choi, K. (2013). An evaluation framework for traffic calming
measures in residential areas. Transportation Research Part D: Transport and
Environment, 25, 68-76.
45. Lehigh Valley Planning Commission. Street Connectivity Guidance Document, 2011.
46. Litman, T. Evaluating Active Transport Benefits and Costs. Victoria Transport Policy
Institute, 2016.

47. Local Government Commission’s Center for Livable Communities. 2000. The Economic
Benefits of Walkable Communities. Retrieved September 23, 2002, from
www.lgc.org/freepub/PDF/land_use/focus/walk_to_money.pdf.
48. Marshall, W. E. and N. W. Garrick. Street network Types and Road Safety: A Study of 24
California Cities. In Urban Design International, August, 2009.
49. Marshall, W. E and N. W. Garrick. Evidence on Why Bike-Friendly Cities Are Safer for
All Road Users. Environmental Practice, Vol 13/1, 2011
50. Marshall, W. E. and N. W. Garrick. Effect of Street Network Design on Walking and
Biking. In Transportation Research Record No. 2198, Transportation Research Board of
the National Academies, Washington, D.C., 2010, pp. 103–115
51. Mately, M., Goldman, L. M. and Fineman, B. J. Pedestrian Travel Potential in Northern
New Jersey. Transportation Research Record, 1705, 2001, pp. 1-8.
52. McNally, M. and S. Ryan. A Comparative Assessment of Travel Characteristics for
NeoTraditional Development. University of California, Irvine, Institute of Transportation
Studies, 1992.
53. Michael Glotz-Richter (2003), Moving the City: A Guided Tour of the Transport
Integration Strategy in Bremen, Germany, Moving the Economy’s New Mobility Industry
Forum
54. Miller, J. R., M. H. Robinson, and M. L. Lahr. Estimating Important TransportationRelated Regional Economic Relationships in Bexar County, Texas. Victoria Transport
Policy Institute, 1999.
55. Model Design Manual for Living Streets. Los Angeles County, 2011
56. Ohio-Kentucky-Indiana Regional Council of Governments (OKI). OKI’s Community
Choices – Street Connectivity, 2007
57. Pennsylvania Department of Transportation. Improving Connectivity and System Function
through Local Planning (PennDOT Connectivity Handbook), 2012.
58. Proft, J. & Condon, P. (2001). Transportation and Community Design: The effects of Land
Use and Street Pattern on Travel Behavior. James Taylor Chair in Landscape and Liveable
Environments. University of British Columbia.
59. Randall, T. A. and Baetz, B. W. (2001) Evaluating Pedestrian Connectivity for Suburban
Sustainability. Journal of Urban Planning and Development, 127, 1-15.
60. Reilly, M. K. (2002). The Influence of Urban Form and Land Use on Mode Choice Evidence from the 1996 Bay Area Travel Survey. Presented at the Annual Meeting of the
Transportation Research Board, Washington, DC.
61. Ryan Snyder Associates. Complete Streets Design Guidelines for Livable Communities.
Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada, 2013.
62. Saelens, B. E., Sallis, J. F., Black, J. B., & Chen, D. (2003). Neighborhood-based
differences in physical activity: an environment scale evaluation. American journal of
public health, 93(9), 1552-1558.
63. Schlossberg, M., Greene, J., Phillips, P. P., Johnson, B., & Parker, B. (2006). School trips:
effects of urban form and distance on travel mode. Journal of the American Planning
Association, 72(3), 337-346.
64. Scoppa, M. Street Connectivity Indices in Urban Growth Planning – A Case for Context
Driven Urban Expansion in Solo, Indonesia. Proceedings of the 3rd Future of Places
Symposium, Stockholm, June-July, 2015.

65. Scoppa, M., S. French, J. Peponis. The Effects of Street Connectivity upon the Distribution
of Local Vehicular Traffic in Metropolitan Atlanta. Proceedings of the 7th International
Space Syntax Symposium, Stockholm, June, 2009.
66. Sermons, M. and Seredich, N. November, 2001. Assessing traveller responsiveness to land
and location based accessibility and mobility solutions. Transportation Research Part D:
Transport and Environment Volume 6, Issue 6, pp. 417-428.
67. Smith, K. R., Brown, B. B., Yamada, I., Kowaleski-Jones, L., Zick, C. D., & Fan, J. X.
(2008). Walkability and body mass index: density, design, and new diversity
measures. American journal of preventive medicine, 35(3), 237-244.
68. Song, Y. (2003) Impacts of Urban Growth Management on Urban Form: A Comparative
Study of Portland, Oregon, Orange County, Florida and Montgomery County, Maryland.
National Center for Smart Growth Research and Education, University of Maryland.
69. Southworth, M., & Ben-Joseph, E. (1997). Streets and the shaping of towns and cities. New
York: McGraw-Hill.
70. Street Connectivity: An Evaluation of Case Studies in the Portland Region. Report No.
2004-11008-PLN, Portland Metro, June, 22, 2004.
71. Tal, Gil, and Susan Handy. "Measuring nonmotorized accessibility and connectivity in a
robust pedestrian network." Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation
Research Board 2299 (2012): 48-56.
72. Tasic, I., Zlatkovic, M., Martin, P. T., & Porter, R. J. (2015). Street Connectivity Versus
Street Widening: Impact of Enhanced Street Connectivity on Traffic Operations in TransitSupportive Environments. In Transportation Research Record: Journal of the
Transportation Research Board, 2(2494), 57-68.
73. Tian, G., Ewing, R., White, A., Walters, J., Goates, J. P., & Joyce, A. (2015). Traffic
Generated by Mixed-Use Developments—13-Region Study Using Consistent Built
Environment Measures. In Transportation Research Board 94th Annual Meeting (No. 155664).
74. Transit Friendly Design Guide. Calgary Transit Division, Transportation Department of
the City of Calgary, April 2006.
75. Transit-Friendly Design Guidelines. TransIT Services of Frederick County, Frederic
County, MD, 2009.
76. Transit-Friendly Streets: Design and Traffic Management Strategies to Support Livable
Communities. Transit Cooperative Research Program (TSRP) Report 33, Transportation
Research Board of the National Academies, Washington D. C., 1998.
77. Tresidder, M. Using GIS to Measure Connectivity: An Exploration of Issues. Portland State
University, School of Urban Studies and Planning, December, 2005.
78. Tri-Met. 2010, November. Livable Portland, Land Use and Transportation Initiatives. See
http://bit.ly/wUuzWC
79. Twaddell, H., and G. Toth. Transportation Planning for Livable Communities: Measuring
What Matters. Planning Commissioners Journal, No. 80, 2010.
80. Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT). R930. Transportation, Preconstruction.
R930-6. Access Management. 2013.
81. Urban Land Institute: Active Transportation and Real Estate: The Next Frontier.
Washington, D.C.: the Urban Land Institute, 2016.
82. Victoria Transport Policy Institute. Roadway Connectivity: Creating More Connected
Roadway and Pathway Networks. Online TDM Encyclopedia, 2015

83. Vuchic, Vukan R. (1999), Transportation for Livable Cities, CUPR Press
84. Wang, F., Wen, M., & Xu, Y. (2013). Population-adjusted street connectivity, urbanicity
and risk of obesity in the US. Applied Geography, 41, 1-14.
85. Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC). Regional Transportation Plan 2015-2040.,
2015.
86. WSDOT. Model Street Connectivity Standards Ordinance. 2006
87. Yi, C. Utilizing GIS to Measure Street Connectivity and Pedestrian Accessibility:
Comparing Cul-De-Sac and Grid Neighborhoods in the Houston Metropolitan Area. GIST Student Paper Contest, 2008.
88. Zhang, M and Kukadia, N. (2005). Metrics of the Built Environment and the Modifiable
Areal Unit Problem. Transportation Research Record 1902: Journal of the Transportation
Research Board, pp.71-79. TRB, National Research Council, Washington, D.C.
89. Zhou, X., Martin, P. T., Zlatkovic, M., & Tasic, I. (2013). Traffic Modeling of Transit
Oriented Development: Evaluation of Transit Friendly Strategies and Innovative
Intersection Designs in West Valley City, UT (No. MPC 14-270).
90. Zimmermann, Erich W., S. R. Staley, S. Ybarra, and N. Donohue. The Most for Our Money
Taxpayer Friendly Solutions for the Nation’s Transportation Challenges. Reason
Foundation, 2011.

APPENDIX

Case Study
Benefit Modeling

UTAH STREET CONNECTIVITY STUDY BENEFITS MODELING OVERVIEW
Background
The Utah Street Connectivity Study seeks to assess the benefits of street connectivity; provide recommendations
on how to implement elements of connectivity into Utah communities; and inform decision-makers and
stakeholders how street connectivity can benefit their communities.
As a key part of the study, we used modeling techniques to investigate and quantify specific benefits we believe
result from changes to the street network to increase connectivity. We were, in effect, identifying the community
benefits that result from increases in street connectivity. In order to set the stage for this benefit modeling, we
needed to 1) quantify the change in connectivity; 2) identify which benefits to model; and 3) identify in which
geographic areas the modeling will take place.
Changes in connectivity
The consultant team has defined street connectivity as consisting of four aspects:
 Relative level of connection
 Network density
 Ability to connect to specific destinations
 Quality of network for all users (walkability)
These aspects mean different things at different scales. The consultant team has defined three scales of
connectivity for this study. They are:
 Regional
 Community
 Neighborhood/District

Page 2 of 10
Each aspect of connectivity is represented by a metric at each scale. They are shown in the following table:

REGION-SCALE
METRICS

the relative level of connection
network density

COMMUNITYSCALE METRICS

Basic connectivity metrics
Connectivity index of
Connectivity index of
collectors and abovearterial-level streets
level streets
Arterial intersections
per square mile

Collector or above
intersections per
square mile

NEIGHBORHOODSCALE METRICS

Connectivity index of
all streets
Intersections per
square mile

Advanced connectivity metrics

ability to connect to destinations

Average travel-shed
percentage for key
destinations

Percentage of
community travel-shed
for key destinations

Percentage of
NH/district travel-shed
for key destinations

quality of network for all users
(walkability)

Percentage of potential
half-mile walk shed from
set of community
destinations

Percentage of potential halfmile walk shed from set of
community destinations

Average of highest 5 spaces
between parallel pedestrian
links

Consequently, for a given region, community, or neighborhood or district, we measured change in some or all of
the four areas above. The measurement of change focused on the Basic connectivity metrics, with the Advanced
connectivity metrics being used as we are able. Together these will quantify the change in connectivity resulting
from a series of changes to the street network.
Identification of benefits
Benefits in this study are defined as changes resulting from increased street connectivity that achieve community
goals. At the onset of the Utah Street Connectivity Study, the consultant team worked together with the project’s
Working Group to identify community benefits potentially affected by increased street connectivity.
The Working Group came up with the following community goals:
 Regional and community mobility
 Transportation choice
 Accessibility to destinations
 Safety and health
 Effective infrastructure
 Community livability
 Economic vitality
 Environmental stewardship
 Interlocal and regional compatibility
 Overcoming geographic barriers
 Growth management
Consequently, in completing the project literature review, the consultant team identified benefits closely
associated with these goals. For example, under the goal “regional and community mobility,” the team found
benefits such as arterial traffic reduction, vehicle miles traveled (VMT) reduction, and trip length reduction.

Page 3 of 10
The team emerged with the following list of benefits, which we categorized into direct benefits (resulting directly
from an increase in street connectivity) and indirect benefits (resulting from a direct benefit of street
connectivity):

Direct Benefits
Goal

Associated benefits
•

Shorter trips and fewer miles traveled

•

Reduction in arterial traffic volumes

•

Increased overall capacity

•

Improved mobility of transit vehicles

•

Improved performance of non-auto modes

•

Increased selection of non-auto modes

Accessibility of destinations

•

Improved pedestrian and bike accessibility to community
destinations

Effective infrastructure

•

Faster service response times and larger service areas or
emergency vehicles

•

Improved utility connections

•

Improved protection of public investment

Health & safety

•

Increased traffic-related safety

Community livability

•

Improved community access

•

Improved community comfort

•

Improved community life

Regional and community mobility

Transportation choice

Page 4 of 10

Indirect Benefits

Goal
Health & safety

Economic vitality

Environmental stewardship

Associated benefits
•

Obesity prevention
o

Connectivity is one of a few key ingredients of walkable neig
produce positive BMI outcomes

o

More connected networks lead to more walking, and thus h

o

Connectivity limits time spent in the car

o

Benefits are focused in urbanized areas

•

Increased market accessibility

•

Increased sales

•

Lower materials costs

•

Lower household costs

•

Walkable communities command price premiums

•

Transit-related economic benefits

•

Bicycling-related economic benefits

•

Reduced air pollution

•

Reduced energy consumption

•

Reduced land consumption

Many of these can be quantified: not only in terms of traffic but also dollars or time saved, amounts of healthy
behavior, number of people able to access a destination, or the values of property.
Our modeling sought to quantify these benefits based on changes to the street network and the resulting street
connectivity. We looked at the relationships between changes to the four measures of street connectivity
(resulting from street network alterations) and accrual of these benefits.

Page 5 of 10

Case study areas
We explored the benefits of street connectivity increases in a set of case study areas. The Utah Street
Connectivity Study designated three jurisdictions for these case studies: Lehi City, Layton City, and Tooele County.
The consultant team worked with each of the three case study communities to identify focus areas that both are
of interest to the local jurisdictions and represent the range of typologies. Any small-area benefit modeling will
take place in these areas:
Layton





Downtown Layton
Hill Field Road Industrial District
Kays Creek / Oak Lane neighborhood
Angel / Layton Parkway neighborhood

Page 6 of 10
Lehi





Thanksgiving Point
Downtown Lehi
Skyridge High School
The Exchange

Page 7 of 10
Tooele County


West Erda

Within these areas, we will measure the existing connectivity for the four metrics, compare these scores against
standards for the typologies, propose improvements to increase connectivity where needed, re-measure the
connectivity metrics, and model the potential benefits resulting from the increases in connectivity.

Approach
The members of the consultant team who undertook the benefit modeling were: the University Traffic Lab, Alta
Planning + Design, and GSBS. Parametrix, as the USCS lead consultant, coordinated the overall modeling effort.
The following describes the approach of each firm.
Traffic modeling (Traffic Lab)
Overview
Traffic modeling consisted of two types of models:
 Mesoscopic dynamic traffic assignment (DTA) models or larger city-wide areas, and
 Microscopic models of selected parts of the networks.
The two types of models were integrated, meaning that the outputs of the mesoscopic DTA models (mainly traffic
volumes) were used as inputs for microscopic models. Mesoscopic DTA models were developed in PTV VISUM
software, using the existing Regional Travel Model developed by WFRC as the base. The three case studies (Lehi,
Layton, and Tooele Valley) were created as subnetworks. However, the Tooele Valley model does not exist in the

Page 8 of 10
Regional Travel Model, and it was manually created in VISUM. The subnetworks were recalibrated in VISUM using
available traffic data obtained from UDOT and other sources, as described later in this section. Recalibrated
demand matrices were used to perform network assignment for the case study networks, which represented the
existing conditions.
Upon developing street connectivity strategies, the network changes were added into the VISUM models and the
assignment was repeated to measure the changes caused by the changes in street connectivity on the city-wide
level. Microsimulation models were developed in PTV VISSIM for defined areas, such as Thanksgiving Point in Lehi,
Downtown area in Layton, and a selected residential neighborhood. VISSIM models were exported directly from
VISUM to keep the current demand obtained through DTA. These models included more detailed network
elements, such as local roads and intersections with the existing control type (signalized, stop-controlled, yield, or
uncontrolled). The VISSIM models were developed for the existing conditions and street connectivity alternatives.
The proposed hybrid approach captured different measures of effectiveness on several levels.
Benefits measured
The benefits were measured on several levels from both the meso and microscopic models. Mesoscopic models
captured changes in volumes on the network wide and segment levels, vehicle-miles traveled (VMTs) and overall
speeds. Microscopic models measured benefits on sub-network, corridor (link) and intersection (node) levels.
These benefits, among others, included changes in volumes, speeds, delays, distances traveled, and travel times.
Other indirect measures were calculated from these outputs.
The Traffic Lab’s modeling output measures of the following benefits:
 Traffic volume changes per segment
 Vehicle miles traveled per segment
 Travel times
 Delay
Target areas
Mesoscopic models included city-wide networks. The Lehi network spans approximately between Redwood Road
on the west to Canyon Road on the east, and SR-92 (Timpanogos Road) on the north to the intersection of Main
and State Street on the south. The Layton network spans approximately between 2000 West on the west to US-89
on the east, and 700 South on the north to 200 North on the south.
Microsimulation models included Thanksgiving Point in Lehi, Downtown area in Layton, and a selected residential
neighborhood to be determined.

Data needed and sources
The needed data for mesoscopic models included the existing Regional Travel Model with OD matrices, existing
volumes on certain roads and existing speeds. The Regional Model was obtained from WFRC and customized for
the three case-study networks (with the exception of West Erda, which was created manually). The existing OD
matrices and roadway speeds were also contained in the models. The existing volumes on certain roads within
the networks were obtained from UDOT sources, such as AADT maps, PeMS stations, and the Signal Performance
Metrics (SPM) system. These volumes were used to recalibrate OD matrices for the subnetworks. The microscopic
models also included volumes obtained from the DTA and measured in the field (turning movement counts are
available for certain signalized intersections). They also included existing signal timing parameters for signalized
intersections within the microscopic networks, which were obtained from the UDOT’s MaxView system. Existing
travel times were obtained from sources such as UDOT ATMS, INRIX data, Google Maps, and Waze.

Page 9 of 10
Mode choice, health, environment, and infrastructure effectiveness modeling (Alta)
Overview
Alta quantified the health-, environmental-, and transportation-related benefits associated with the estimated
number of motor vehicle trips replaced by active transportation trips (bicycling and walking) through a series of
economic multipliers that derived from the National Household Travel Survey (2009), local household travel
surveys, and peer-reviewed journal articles.
Benefits measured
Alta’s modeling output measures of the following benefits:
 Travel Behavior
o Estimated annual bicycle and pedestrian trips
o Estimated annual motor vehicle trips reduced
o Estimated annual vehicle miles traveled reduced
 Environmental Benefits
o Estimated annual metric tons of particulate matter (PM2.5 and PM10) reduced
o Estimated annual metric tons of nitrous oxides (NOx) reduced
o Estimated annual metric tons of sulfur oxides (SOx) reduced
o Estimated annual metric tons of volatile organic compounds (VOC) reduced
o Estimated annual metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO2) reduced
o Estimated annual environmental benefits from reduced greenhouse gases and criteria
pollutants ($USD)
 Health Benefits
o Estimated average annual newly active persons (number of persons meeting the CDC’s
minimum level of physical activity per week from active transportation)
o Estimated annual healthcare cost savings ($USD)
 Transportation Benefits
o Estimated annual household transportation cost savings (individual motor vehicle
maintenance, fuel, and ongoing operations costs avoided due to active transportation,
$USD)
o Estimated annual traffic congestion cost savings ($USD)
o Estimated annual collision cost savings ($USD)
o Estimated annual roadway maintenance cost savings ($USD)
Target areas



Citywide for each case study jurisdiction
Downtown Layton, if possible

Data needed and sources







Project study area
Count data (if available)
Population, employment, and school enrollment forecasts (if available)
Estimated trip distance (if available)
Estimated all trip purpose mode spilts (if available)
Collisions by injury type (if available)

Page 10 of 10
Economics modeling (GSBS)
Overview
GSBS estimated the economic benefits of improved connectivity. To complete this they established an existing
baseline and measured the benefits against it. They focused this analysis on the impact to the city overall.
Depending on the type of connection made, along with the type of uses that connection is bringing together,
GSBS assigned an increased value ratio from the literature.
Benefits measured
GSBS’s modeling output measures of the following benefits:
 Change in total taxable sales
Target areas


Citywide for each case study jurisdiction

Data needed and sources




Property value by parcel (Assessor’s data)
Existing sales per square foot by individual location (Layton City or request to state tax office)
Total sales by industry for each city (Online)

UTAH STREET CONNECTIVITY STUDY:
TRAFFIC MODELING

Technical Report

Principal Author:
Dr. Milan Zlatkovic, Assistant Professor, University of Wyoming
(Previous affiliation: Traffic Lab, University of Utah)

Date of Research: July – November 2016

Report date: November 07, 2016

OVERVIEW
Traffic modeling of street connectivity benefits consists of two types of models, mesoscopic
VISUM models of community-scale networks, and micsroscopic VISSIM models of selected
neighborhood networks. The two types of models are integrated, where the outputs of the
mesoscopic models (mainly traffic volumes) are used as inputs for microscopic models.
Mesoscopic traffic equilibrium assignment models are developed in PTV VISUM software,
using the existing Regional Travel Model developed by WFRC as the base. The three case
studies (Lehi, Layton and Tooele) were created as subnetworks. However, the Tooele model
does not exist in the Regional Travel Model, and it was manually created in VISUM. The
subnetworks are recalibrated in VISUM using available traffic data obtained from UDOT and
other sources, as described later in this section. Recalibrated demand matrices were used to
perform network assignment for the case study networks, which represents the existing
conditions. The developed street connectivity alternatives were added into the VISUM models
and the assignment was repeated to measure the changes in traffic patterns caused by the changes
in street connectivity. Microsimulation models are developed in PTV VISSIM for defined
neighborhood areas, such as Thanksgiving Point in Lehi, Downtown area in Layton, and West
Erda in Tooele. VISSIM models were exported directly from VISUM to keep the current
demand obtained through the traffic equilibrium assignment. These models include more detailed
network elements, such as local roads and intersections with the existing control type (signalized,
stop-controlled, yield, or uncontrolled). The VISSIM models were developed for the existing
conditions and street connectivity alternatives. This hybrid approach captured different measures
of effectiveness on several levels.
Benefits Measured
The benefits will be measured on several levels from both the meso and microscopic models.
Mesoscopic models captured changes in volumes on the network wide and segment levels,
vehicle-miles traveled (VMTs) and overall travel times. Microscopic models measured benefits
on sub-network, corridor (link) and intersection (node) levels. These benefits included changes in
volumes, speeds, delays, distances traveled, travel times and number of stops. Other indirect
measures can be calculated from these outputs.
Target areas
Mesoscopic models will include city-wide networks. The Lehi network spans approximately
between Redwood Road on the West to Canyon road on the East, and SR 92 (Timpanogos road)
on the North to the intersection of Main and State street on the South. The Layton network spans
approximately between 2000 W on the west to US 89 on the East, and 700 S on the North to 200
N on the South side. The Tooele network includes areas between I-80 ramp on the North to 1000
North street on the south, and the intersection of UT 138 and Erda Way on the West to Droubay
Road on the East.

Data needed and sources
The needed data for mesoscopic models include the existing Regional Travel Model with OD
matrices, existing volumes on certain roads and existing speeds. The Regional Model was
obtained from WFRC and customized for the three case-study networks (with the exception of
Tooele, which was created manually). The existing OD matrices and roadway speeds are also
contained in the models. The existing volumes on certain roads within the networks were
obtained from UDOT sources, such as AADT maps, PeMS stations and the Signal Performance
Metrics (SPM) system. These volumes were used to recalibrate OD matrices for the
subnetworks. The microscopic networks also include existing signal timing parameters for
signalized intersections within the neighborhood networks, which were obtained from the
UDOT’s MaxView system.

COMMUNITY-SCALE VISUM NETWORKS OF EXISTING CONDITIONS
The community scale networks for Lehi, Layton and Tooele were developed and simulated in
VISUM, mesoscopic transportation planning software which is used to analyze and plan
transportation systems. VISUM was used to perform traffic assignment, the 4th step in the
planning process, based on existing and calibrated Origin-Demand (OD) matrices and field
traffic volume data.
The Lehi network was simulated for a typical weekday PM peak period (3 - 6 pm). The network
configuration was exported from the Regional Travel Model with sub-network adjustments for
the study area. The VISUM network shows highways that have a functional class of collectors
and higher (major/minor collectors, principal/minor arterials and freeways). The existing OD
matrices were used for the sub-network Equilibrium Traffic Assignment, where the sub-network
contains 60 TAZs.
Volume data were obtained from three different sources. UDOT's PeMS data were used to
calculate typical PM peak period volumes and directional distribution for freeways, with April
28, 2016 as the typical day. PeMS data were available only for one measurement location along
I-15 at Timpanogos Highway (SR 92). Volume data for other locations were obtained from
UDOT's AADT maps and adjusted for the PM volume and directional split using PeMS data
analysis. Volumes for certain links in the vicinity of signalized intersections were obtained from
UDOT's Signal Performance Metrics system, either through the "Approach Volume" or "Turning
Movement Count" features (depending on the dataset that was available for the particular
location). April 28, 2016 in the PM peak was again used as a representative day. In the end, there
was a total of 37 links with available traffic volumes for the three hour PM peak period.
The available link volume data were entered into the corresponding VISUM links for OD
estimation purposes and sub-network calibration. The OD matrix was corrected using VISUM's
T-Flow Fuzzy function, which adjusts zone productions, attractions and zone-to-zone
distribution to closely match field link volumes. The corrected OD matrix was used to perform
Equilibrium Traffic Assignment for the study network.
Figure 1 shows calibrated VISUM network after the T-Flow Fuzzy matrix correction. The
network with link volumes is shown in Figure 2.
The same approach was applied to the Layton network. In this case, the PeMS data were
available for one measurement station at I-15 and Layton Parkway. The remaining data were
obtained from UDOT AADT maps and Signal Performance Metrics system. A total of 46 links
with available traffic volumes was used to calibrate the model. Figure 3 shows the calibration of
the Layton network, while Figure 4 shows link volumes after T-Flow Fuzzy matrix calibration.
The Layton subnetwork consists of 51 TAZs.

20,000

18,000

Simulation volumes (3 - 6 pm)

16,000
14,000

R² = 0.9805

12,000
10,000
8,000

6,000
4,000
2,000

0

Field volumes (3 - 6 pm)

Figure 1: Lehi VISUM Network Calibration

© OpenStreetMap contributors

Figure 2: Lehi VISUM Network with PM Peak Link Volumes

16,000

14,000
R² = 0.9823

Simulation volumes (3 - 6 pm)

12,000

10,000

8,000

6,000

4,000

2,000

0

Field volumes (3 - 6 pm)

Figure 3: Layton VISUM Network Calibration

© OpenStreetMap contributors

Figure 4: Layton VISUM Network with PM Peak Link Volumes

The Tooele network was created "from scratch", since this network was not available in the
Regional Travel Model. The network layout was based on background maps, and functional
classification of the roadways was assigned according to the UDOT's functional class map and
OpenStreetMap© export. The Tooele network includes 17 TAZs. The same data sources for
traffic volumes are used as in previous two cases (UDOT's AADT map and the SPM system). A
total of 27 links with available volumes was used for network calibration.
Figure 5 shows calibrated VISUM network after the T-Flow Fuzzy matrix correction. The
network with link volumes is shown in Figure 6.
6,000

5,000

Simulation volumes (3 - 6 pm)

R² = 0.9732
4,000

3,000

2,000

1,000

0

Field volumes (3 - 6 pm)

Figure 5: Tooele VISUM Network Calibration

© OpenStreetMap contributors

Figure 6: Tooele VISUM Network with PM Peak Link Volumes

COMMUNITY-SCALE NETWORK WITH CONNECTIVITY IMPROVEMENTS
According to the recommendations for community improvements, the existing networks were
modified with added connections, which were defined as collector streets. To make a comparison
to the existing condition, the same OD matrices were used to perform traffic assignment in the
new networks. Using outputs from VISUM, the networks were compared for the total length
(both directions), 3-hour traffic volumes, free-flow and actual network travel times, as well as
delays and vehicle-miles traveled (VMT). A comparison of traffic volumes and VMTs for some
of the main arterials and collector streets is also performed. The results are given in the following
tables.
Table 1: MOE Comparison for Lehi Community-Scale Network
MOE

Base scenario

Length (mi)
Volumes (vp3h)
TTo (h)1
TTact (h)2
Delay (h)3
3 hr VMT (mi)

254.815
910,023
8.170
38.106
29.937
320,135

Connectivity
improvements
332.051
901,750
10.524
33.253
22.729
314,238

Difference (%)
30.31%
-0.91%
28.82%
-12.74%
-24.08%
-1.84%

1

Free flow travel time
Actual travel time
3
Delay = TTo - TTact
2

Table 2: Arterial Volumes and VMTs for Lehi Network

Arterial /
Collector
SR 92
MVC
State St
Lehi Main St
2300 W

Base
2,256
1,964
1,684
1,680
639

Avg. 3 hour volumes
Difference
Improvements
(%)
1,754
-22.28%
916
-53.35%
1,475
-12.38%
1,639
-2.43%
211
-66.98%

Base
30,499
6,408
14,006
12,208
2,855

Total 3 hour VMT
Difference
Improvements
(%)
25,599
-16.06%
3,065
-52.17%
12,841
-8.32%
11,233
-7.99%
984
-65.53%

Connectivity improvements increased the total length of the Lehi network for 30%, with a
similar increase in the free-flow travel time. However, the actual travel time reduced in the
improved network by 13%. This is attributed to more direct, faster connections between points in
the network, and also by the introduction of new connections over the freeway. Total delay,
computed as the difference between the free flow and actual travel times, reduced 24% in the

better connected network. Total volumes traversing the network and VMTs are slightly reduced
in the connectivity improvement scenario.
A significant decrease in volumes and VMTs is observed in the connected scenario. The volumes
were distributed to other connections, relieving the arterials a giving a better distribution of
traffic flows in the network.
Table 3: MOE Comparison for Layton Community-Scale Network
MOE

Base scenario

Length (mi)
Volumes (vp3h)
TTo (h)1
TTact (h)2
Delay (h)3
3 hr VMT (mi)

252.479
140,5481
7.307
40.401
33.094
531,861

Connectivity
improvements
292.875
144,6527
8.535
38.808
30.273
528,495

Difference (%)
16.00%
2.92%
16.81%
-3.94%
-8.53%
-0.63%

1

Free flow travel time
Actual travel time
3
Delay = TTo - TTact
2

Table 4: Arterial Volumes and VMTs for Layton Network

Arterial /
Collector
SR-193
700 South
Syracuse
Antelope
Gentile
Hillfield
Layton Pkwy
Gordon Ave

Base
1,938
2,548
2,648
2,387
1,444
3,012
1,265
1,957

Avg. 3 hour volumes
Difference
Improvements
(%)
1,618
-16.51%
2,588
1.57%
2,571
-2.92%
2,252
-5.64%
1,371
-5.04%
2,690
-10.69%
1,334
5.49%
1,276
-34.79%

Base
16,471
13,982
15,288
16,542
17,959
21,566
4,634
6,421

Total 3 hour VMT
Difference
Improvements
(%)
13,396
-18.66%
13,186
-5.69%
14,724
-3.69%
13,678
-17.31%
17,718
-1.34%
19,793
-8.22%
4,438
-4.23%
4,882
-23.97%

The length of the Layton community-scale network increased 16%, with a similar increase in
free-flow travel times. The actual travel times, as well as the total delays were reduced 4% and
9% respectively, showing the benefits of better connectivity on network mobility. A small
reduction in VMTs is also observed on the network level.

A reduction in volumes is also observed along most arterials, except 700 S and Layton Parkway.
The VMTs along all arterial are reduced, ranging from very small reductions of 1% to significant
ones of more than 20%.
Table 5: MOE Comparison for Tooele Community-Scale Network
MOE

Base scenario

Length (mi)
Volumes (vp3h)
TTo (h)1
TTact (h)2
Delay (h)3
3 hr VMT (mi)

129.172
266,637
2.749
3.866
1.117
105,653

Connectivity
improvements
200.904
292,444
4.927
5.846
0.918
107,069

Difference (%)
55.53%
9.68%
79.21%
51.19%
-17.78%
1.34%

1

Free flow travel time
Actual travel time
3
Delay = TTo - TTact
2

Table 6: Arterial Volumes and VMTs for Tooele Network

Arterial /
Collector
State Route 36
State Route 138
West Erda Way
East Erda Way
Bates Canyon Rd
UT 112
Village Blvd
Center Street
Droubay Road

Base
3,194
1,112
935
416
351
532
313
510
252

Avg. 3 hour volumes
Difference
Improvements
(%)
3,049
-4.53%
1,000
-10.05%
655
-30.03%
269
-35.40%
325
-7.40%
524
-1.48%
333
6.25%
507
-0.69%
235
-6.76%

Base
55,427
14,776
9,024
1,647
1,752
4,159
894
2,108
3,229

Total 3 hour VMT
Difference
Improvements
(%)
53,767
-2.99%
13,007
-11.98%
6,551
-27.40%
1,021
-37.98%
1,651
-5.76%
4,126
-0.77%
1,031
15.23%
2,133
1.22%
3,014
-6.64%

The total length of the Tooele network increased about 55%, with an 80% increase in free-flow
travel times. In this case, the actual travel time in the new network also increased, but the total
delay (computed as the difference between the free-flow and actual travel time) reduced about
18%. About 10% more volumes, with a slight increase in VMTs, are also observed in this
network. This is due to the major changes in the network layout, much more than in the previous
two networks, since the total network length increased more than 50%. This caused major
changes in traffic flow patterns. That can be seen from Table 6, with some significant reductions
in traffic volumes and VMTs for almost all arterials and major collectors. The only collector for

which an increase in volumes and VMTs is observed is Village Blvd, which in the new
connected scenario took over traffic volumes from Bates Canyon Road. The reductions in
volumes and VMTs range from insignificant (less than 1%) to very significant (close to 40%).

Comparison with Street Widening Scenarios
Capacity increase and operational improvements in a network can be achieved by street
widening, i.e. adding travel lanes to existing roadways. The result would be a redistribution of
traffic flows within the network, with the roads with increased capacity attracting more traffic.
Street widening scenarios were tested on the three community-scale networks for the purpose of
comparing street connectivity with street widening.
In the Lehi network, the following arterials and collectors were widened, by adding a lane in
each direction: SR 92, Lehi Main Street, State Street and Alpine Highway. In the Layton
network, a lane was added to the Main Street south of Antelope drive, Fairfield, and Antelope
Drive east of Hillfield. The street widening scenario for these two networks was designed in such
a way to achieve similar actual travel times with the street connectivity scenario, for easier
comparison. In the Tooele network, an extra lane in each direction was added to West Erda Way
and Bates Canyon Road. Since in the street connectivity scenario the actual travel time increased,
the method behind street widening was to achieve similar delays with the street connectivity
scenario. The results are given in the following tables.
Table 7: MOE Comparison for Lehi Network with Street Widening Scenario

Length (mi)

254.82

Connectivity
improvements
332.05

Length (lane-mi)

313.64

391.78

349.53

24.91%

11.44%

Volumes (vp3h)
Average street
capacity (veh/h)
Total network
capacity (veh/h)
TTo (h)

910,023

901,750

918,807

-0.91%

0.97%

932

878

1,051

-5.86%

12.73%

739,312

875,028

833,402

18.36%

12.73%

8.17

10.52

8.17

28.82%

0.00%

TTact (h)

38.11

33.25

33.07

-12.74%

-13.23%

Delay (h)

29.94

22.73

24.90

-24.08%

-16.84%

3 hr VMT (mi)

320,135

314,238

319,486

-1.84%

-0.20%

Base

Street
widening
254.82

Street
con./Base
30.31%

Street
wid./Base
0.00%

Table 8: Arterial Volumes and VMTs for Lehi Network with Street Widening Scenario

Street

Base

Avg. 3 hour volumes
Connectivity
Street
Street
improvements widening
con./Base
1,754
2,644
-22.28%

Street wid./Base

SR 92

2,256

MVC

1,964

916

1,750

-53.35%

-10.90%

State St

1,684

1,475

2,201

-12.38%

30.72%

Lehi Main

1,680

1,639

1,807

-2.43%

7.59%

2300 W

639

211

538

-66.98%

-15.75%

Avg.

-31.48%

5.77%

Total 3 hour VMTs
Street
Street
widening
con./Base
35,251
-16.06%

17.19%

SR 92

30,499

Connectivity
improvements
25,599

MVC

6,408

3,065

5,700

-52.17%

-11.05%

State St

14,006

12,841

18,423

-8.32%

31.54%

Lehi Main

12,208

11,233

13,584

-7.99%

11.27%

2300 W

2,855

984

2,489

-65.53%

-12.81%

Avg.

-30.01%

6.91%

Street

Base

Street wid./Base
15.58%

Although the total roadway length remained unchanged, the lane-miles increased in the street
widening scenario by about 12%. The lane-miles increase in the street connectivity scenario is
25%, about twice as much as in the street widening scenario. Street widening resulted in about
the same actual travel time as improved connectivity, but the delay reduction (computed as the
difference between the free-flow and actual travel times) is still higher in the street connectivity
scenario (24% vs. 17% reduction). Although the average street capacity reduced 6% in the street
connectivity scenario, the total network capacity increased 18%. The increase in the average
street and total network capacity in the street widening scenario was the same, about 13%. The
widened streets attracted more traffic, between 8% and 31%, with a similar increase in VMTs.
Total increase in volumes and VMTs along the analyzed alternatives was 6% and 7%
respectively. Improved street connectivity reduced volumes and VMTs along these streets for
about 30%.

Table 9: MOE Comparison for Layton Network with Street Widening Scenario

Length (mi)

252.48

Connectivity
improvements
292.88

Length (lane-mi)

356.05

396.45

376.79

11.35%

5.82%

Volumes (vp3h)
Average street
capacity (veh/h)
Total network
capacity (veh/h)
TTo (h)

1,405,481

1,446,527

1,389,940

2.92%

-1.11%

1,303

1,212

1,357

-6.97%

4.13%

905,662

1,000,130

943,052

10.43%

4.13%

7.31

8.54

7.31

16.81%

0.00%

TTact (h)

40.40

38.81

37.55

-3.94%

-7.05%

Delay (h)

33.09

30.27

30.25

-8.53%

-8.61%

3 hr VMT (mi)

531,861

528,495

530,424

-0.63%

-0.27%

Base

Street
widening
252.48

Street
con./Base
16.00%

Street
wid./Base
0.00%

Table 10: Arterial Volumes and VMTs for Layton Network with Street Widening Scenario
Avg. 3 hour volumes
Connectivity
Street
Street
improvements widening
con./Base
1,618
1,797
-16.51%

Street

Base

Street wid./Base

SR-193

1,938

700 South

2,548

2,588

2,502

1.57%

-1.80%

Syracuse

2,648

2,571

2,629

-2.92%

-0.70%

Antelope

2,387

2,252

2,501

-5.64%

4.79%

Gentile

1,444

1,371

1,421

-5.04%

-1.58%

Hillfield
Layton
Pkwy
Gordon
Ave

3,012

2,690

2,844

-10.69%

-5.56%

1,265

1,334

1,216

5.49%

-3.87%

1,957

1,276

1,761

-34.79%

-9.98%

Avg.

-8.57%

-3.25%

-7.27%

Total 3 hour VMTs
Street
Street
widening
con./Base
15,297
-18.66%

Street

Base

SR-193

16,471

Connectivity
improvements
13,396

700 South

13,982

13,186

13,815

-5.69%

-1.19%

Syracuse

15,288

14,724

15,165

-3.69%

-0.81%

Antelope

16,542

13,678

18,828

-17.31%

13.82%

Gentile

17,959

17,718

17,882

-1.34%

-0.43%

Hillfield
Layton
Pkwy
Gordon
Ave

21,566

19,793

20,597

-8.22%

-4.49%

4,634

4,438

4,413

-4.23%

-4.76%

6,421

4,882

5,696

-23.97%

-11.29%

Avg.

-10.39%

-2.04%

Street wid./Base
-7.12%

The lane-miles increased in the street widening scenario is about 6%, compared to the 11%
increase in the street connectivity scenario. Street widening resulted in about the same actual
travel time and delay reduction as improved connectivity. Although the average street capacity
reduced 7% in the street connectivity scenario, the total network capacity increased more than
10%. The increase in the average street and total network capacity in the street widening scenario
was the same, about 4%. The widened streets attracted more traffic, changing the traffic
distribution in the network. Improved street connectivity reduced volumes and VMTs along
analyzed streets for about 8-10%, more than the street widening scenario (2-3%).
Table 11: MOE Comparison for Tooele Network with Street Widening Scenario

Length (mi)

389.75

Connectivity
improvements
454.34

Length (lane-mi)

437.60

502.19

454.48

14.76%

3.86%

Volumes (vp3h)
Average street
capacity (veh/h)
Total network
capacity (veh/h)
TTo (h)

360,539

376,206

368,055

4.35%

2.08%

526

552

544

5.01%

3.35%

1,267,400

1,399,900

1,309,800

10.45%

3.35%

11.14

13.09

11.14

17.49%

0.00%

TTact (h)

13.24

14.88

12.82

12.41%

-3.15%

Delay (h)

2.10

1.80

1.68

-14.55%

-19.83%

120,625

120,302

121,499

-0.27%

0.72%

Base

3 hr VMT (mi)

Street
widening
389.75

Street
con./Base
16.57%

Street
wid./Base
0.00%

Table 10: Arterial Volumes and VMTs for Layton Network with Street Widening Scenario
Avg. 3 hour volumes
Connectivity
Street
Street
improvements widening
con./Base
3,049
3,262
-4.53%

Street

Base

State Route 36
State Route
138

3,194
1,112

1,000

907

-10.05%

-18.48%

West Erda Way

935

655

1,210

-30.03%

29.35%

East Erda Way
Bates Canyon
Road

416

269

406

-35.40%

-2.40%

351

325

406

-7.40%

15.74%

UT 112
Village
Boulevard

532

524

525

-1.48%

-1.41%

313

333

300

6.25%

-4.17%

Center Street

510

507

507

-0.69%

-0.54%

Droubay Road

252

235

252

-6.76%

0.00%

Avg.

-10.01%

2.25%

Total 3 hour VMTs
Connectivity
Street
Street
improvements widening
con./Base
53,767
56,621
-2.99%

Street wid./Base
2.13%

Street

Base

Street wid./Base

State Route 36
State Route
138

55,427
14,776

13,007

11,685

-11.98%

-20.92%

West Erda Way

9,024

6,551

11,523

-27.40%

27.70%

East Erda Way
Bates Canyon
Road

1,647

1,021

1,593

-37.98%

-3.28%

1,752

1,651

2,046

-5.76%

16.83%

UT 112
Village
Boulevard

4,159

4,126

4,127

-0.77%

-0.75%

894

1,031

876

15.23%

-2.05%

Center Street

2,108

2,133

2,096

1.22%

-0.56%

Droubay Road

3,229

3,014

3,232

-6.64%

0.09%

Avg.

-8.56%

2.13%

2.15%

Due to the network of the Tooele network, as discussed earlier, the actual travel times in the
network increased in the street connectivity scenario, but the total delay (computed as the
difference between the free-flow and actual travel times) reduced. The street widening scenario
reduced the actual travel time in the network by about 3%, with a comparable reduction in delays
with the street connectivity scenario. The total lane miles in the street connectivity scenario
increased about 15%, compared to 4% in the street widening scenario. In this case, the average

and street and the total network capacity increased 5% and 11% respectively in the street
connectivity scenario, compared to a 3% increase in both cases in the street widening scenario.
The distribution of traffic volumes was quite different in the two scenarios, with improved street
connectivity reducing total volumes and VMTs along analyzed streets 9-10%, compared to a 2%
increase in volumes in the street connectivity scenario. This again shows a much better
distribution of traffic flows in a better connected network.

NEIGHBORHOOD-SCALE NETWORKS WITH CONNECTIVITY IMPROVEMENTS
One neighborhood-scale network from each community networks was selected for further
analysis of connectivity improvements. In this case, the networks were analyzed in VISSIM
microsimulation environment for a more detailed insight into their operations. Thanksgiving
Point was chosen from the Lehi network as a representative of a campus district neighborhood,
Downtown Layton from the Layton network as a representative of an urban neighborhood, and
West Erda from the Tooele network as a representative of a rural neighborhood. These networks
were cut from the VISUM models using previously loaded traffic assignment and exported into
VISSIM for further analysis. Traffic signals were also included in VISSIM, with the signal
timing data obtained from UDOT’s MaxView system. Freeway were not included in the
analysis, but the freeway ramps were, where applicable. The VISSIM neighborhood networks
are given in Figures 7 to 9.

Figure 7: Layout of Thanksgiving Point Neighborhood-Scale VISSIM Network

Figure 8: Layout of Downtown Layton Neighborhood-Scale VISSIM Network

Figure 9: Layout of West Erda Neighborhood-Scale VISSIM Network

According to the recommendations for neighborhood connectivity improvements, the existing
networks were modified with added connections, which were defined as local streets. To make a
comparison to the existing condition, the same vehicle inputs were used in base and improved
networks, and VISUM vas used to determine the new traffic assignment/routing for the
connected scenario, which was replicated in VISSIM microsimulation. The obtained results on
the neighborhood-scale are given in the following tables.
Table 7: MOE Comparison for Thanksgiving Point Neighborhood-Scale Network
MOE
Total vehicles (veh/3h)
Distance traveled (mi)
Average speed (mph)
Total travel time (h)
Average delay (s/veh)
Average stops per vehicle

Base scenario
15,846
30,010.94
26.09
1,150.19
35.13
1.31

Connectivity
improvements
18,753
33,563.51
24.90
1,348.16
42.31
1.68

Difference (%)
18.35%
11.84%
-4.56%
17.21%
20.44%
28.24%

In the connected scenario of the Thanksgiving Point network the total volumes increased close to
20%, followed by the similar increase in travel times and average vehicular delays, with about
5% reduction in average speeds. Total traveled distances, and therefore VMTs, increased about
19%. The increase in volumes and VMTs is attributed to the traversing traffic which is using
new network connections throughout the neighborhood. Part of the increase in travel times and
stops per vehicle is also attributed to new intersections in the network. However, the reduction in
speeds and increase in stops is beneficial for non-motorized modes, since it can lead to improved
safety along local streets and at intersections. If the traffic volumes in the neighborhood increase
beyond the set threshold, they can be controlled by other measures, such as traffic calming and
speed limit reduction. The overall layout of the connected scenario is beneficial to non-motorized
mode from operational perspective too, since it provides better accessibility and shorter travel
distances within the network. Furthermore, as the travel demand increases in the future, the
benefits of better neighborhood connectivity will become more significant.

Table 8: MOE Comparison for Downtown Layton Neighborhood-Scale Network
MOE
Total vehicles (veh/3h)
Distance traveled (mi)
Average speed (mph)
Total travel time (h)
Average delay (s/veh)
Average stops per vehicle

Base scenario
17,056
23,003.72
24.58
935.96
41.71
1.42

Connectivity
improvements
17,087
23,612.77
23.25
1,015.69
49.39
2.50

Difference (%)
0.18%
2.65%
-5.41%
8.52%
18.41%
76.06%

No changes in traffic volumes were recorded in the connected scenario of the Downtown Layton
network, meaning that the traversing traffic was mostly avoiding the downtown area, even with
the added connections. The distance traveled and VMT slightly increased, with about 5%
reduction in average speeds and increase in delays, travel times and stops. This can be attributed
to the increased number of intersections, as well as the low-speed connections introduced to the
network. Similarly as in the previous case, this can benefit non-motorized traffic from the safety
and operational standpoints. Since no additional traffic was recorded in this network, there would
be no need for other strategies to control volumes.
Table 9: MOE Comparison for West Erda Neighborhood-Scale Network
MOE
Total vehicles (veh/3h)
Distance traveled (mi)
Average speed (mph)
Total travel time (h)
Average delay (s/veh)
Average stops per vehicle

Base scenario
9,755
17,956.56
40.15
447.28
18.28
0.29

Connectivity
improvements
9,757
17,941.35
39.29
456.69
20.44
0.46

Difference (%)
0.02%
-0.08%
-2.14%
2.10%
11.82%
58.62%

No changes were observed in traffic volumes and VMTs in the West Erda network, meaning that
the traversing traffic did not use the new connections. A slight reduction in speeds with a similar
increase in travel times, and a more significant increase in average delay and number of stops per
vehicle were recorded. This can be attributed to the increased number of intersections, as well as
the low-speed connections introduced to the network. Compared to the previous two networks,
significantly higher speeds and lower delays and number of stops per vehicle were observed in
West Erda. This is due to the fact that this is a rural neighborhood, with higher speed limits and
lower traffic volumes. The extension of safety benefits for non-motorized traffic in this case
would be lower than for the previous two networks, but the operational benefits would be
significant due to better accessibility and shorter travel distances within the network.

CONCLUSIONS
The impacts and benefits of increased street connectivity tested on the case-study networks show
similar results with other studies presented in the literature. In urban and suburban communityscale networks, a significant reduction in network travel times and delays was observed. VMTs
on higher-rank streets was in most cases significantly reduced, attributed to a more balanced
distribution of traffic flows within the network. Travel times and delays in the rural tested
network were increased, but the traffic volumes and VMTs were also reduced along higher-rank
roads. This is due to the fact that a rural network has different characteristics, with higher speed
limits and less signalized and stop controlled intersections, so any introduction of a new
intersection can increase delays. However, the benefits of a more balanced traffic distribution, as
well as shorter travel distances are evident in all community-scale networks.
A campus-type neighborhood network with better street connectivity was shown to attract more
traversing traffic. However, this does not have to be the rule, since in most cases this will depend
on the location of the network and the proximity of high-capacity and high-speed highway
facilities, as well as connections to those facilities. Improving connectivity in urban and rural
neighborhoods does not seem to attract more traversing traffic, but at the same time provides a
safer and better environment for non-motorized traffic modes. These benefits are much higher in
an urban network, due to overall lower speeds and more intersection with traffic control devices.
It should be noted that these effects of improved street connectivity refer to the analyzed
networks. However, similar effects may be assumed for other similar networks, since traffic
flows and the distribution of traffic will follow the same general patterns.

Region
Climate
Elevation (ft)
Populationi
Population
Density per
Square Mileii
Bicycle
Friendly
Community
Award Leveliii
Walk Friendly
Community
Award Leveliv

Menlo Park, CA
Northern
California

Palo Alto, CA
Northern
California

Redmond, WA

Mediterranean
(Csb)

Mediterranean
(Csb)

Mediterranean
(Csb)

Mediterranean
(Csb)

189
92,593

85
132,268

72
32,792

30
65,998

43
56,704

Salt Lake City,
UT
Mountain
West
Hot-summer
continental
(Dfa)
4,226
189,267

~2,000/sq mi

~4,900/sq mi

~4,100/sq mi

~3,300/sq mi

~2,800/sq mi

~3,500/sq mi

~1,700/sq mi

~2,300/sq mi

n/a

Silver

Bronze

Silver

Gold

Silver

Silver

Bronze

n/a

n/a

Silver

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

Lehi, UT
Mountain
West
Hot-summer
continental
(Dfa)
4,564
51,982

Beaverton, OR

Bellevue, WA

Pacific NW

Pacific NW

Mediterranean
(Csb)

Pacific NW

West Sacramento,
CA
Northern California
Mediterranean (Csa)
30
49,946

Bicycle Commute Mode Share

Walk Commute Mode Share

Baseline

0.25%

0.85%

Low Estimate

1.10%

3.22%

Mid Estimate

1.75%

4.46%

High Estimate

5.24%

5.25%

v

Future Estimates
Baseline

Low

Mid

High

Total

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Bike and Walk Trips

1,698,000

6,624,000

4,926,000

9,389,000

7,691,000

14,213,000

12,515,000

Miles Biked and Walked

1,301,000

2,923,000

1,622,000

3,981,000

2,680,000

7,886,000

6,585,000

Hours of Physical Activity

319,000

650,000

331,000

844,000

525,000

1,291,000

972,000

Recommended Physical Activity Min. Met

2,500

5,000

2,500

6,500

4,000

10,000

7,500

Physical Activity Need Met

4.72%

9.62%

4.90%

12.49%

7.77%

19.10%

14.38%

Healthcare Cost Savings

$60,000

$236,000

$176,000

$338,000

$278,000

$560,000

$500,000

Future Estimates
Low

Baseline

Mid

High

Total

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

CO2 Emissions Reduced (lbs)

934,000

3,869,000

2.935.000

5,786,000

4,852,000

12,857,000

11,923,000

Other Vehicle Emissions Reduced (lbs)

18,000

75,000

57,000

110,000

92,000

208,000

190,000

Total Vehicle Emission Costs Reduced

$19,000

$77,000

$58,000

$113,000

$94,000

$216,000

$197,000

Future Estimates
Low

Baseline

Mid

High

Total

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Annual VMT Reduced

574,000

2,312,000

1,738,000

3,375,000

2,801,000

6,431,000

5,857,000

Reduced Traffic Congestion Costs

$40,000

$162,000

$122,000

$237,000

$197,000

$451,000

$411,000

Reduced Vehicle Crash Costs

$287,000

$1,156,000

$869,000

$1,688,000

$1,401,000

$3,215,000

$2,928,000

Reduced Road Maintenance Costs

$86,000

$347,000

$261,000

$506,000

$420,000

$965,000

$879,000

Household Vehicle Operation Cost Savings

$327,000

$1,318,000

$991,000

$1,923,000

$1,596,000

$3,666,000

$3,339,000

Total Transportation Benefits

$740,000

$2,983,000

$2,243,000

$4,354,000

$3,614,000

$8,297,000

$7,557,000

Future Estimates
Low

Baseline

High

Mid

Total

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Health Benefits

$60,000

$236,000

$176,000

$338,000

$278,000

$560,000

$560,000

Environmental Benefits

$19,000

$77,000

$58,000

$113,000

$94,000

$216,000

$197,000

Transportation Benefits

$740,000

$2,983,000

$2,243,000

$4,354,000

$3,614,000

$8,297,000

$7,557,000

Total Benefits

$819,000

$3,296,000

$2,477,000

$4,805,000

$3,986,000

$9,073,000

$8,254,000

i

American Community Survey (2010-2014)
Ibid.
iii
“Current Bicycle Friendly Communities.” (2016). The League of American Bicyclists.
http://bikeleague.org/sites/default/files/BFC_Master_Spring%202016_1.pdf
iv
“Full List of Walk Friendly Communities.” (2016). Walk Friendly Communities.
http://www.walkfriendly.org/communities/list.cfm
v
American Community Survey (2010-2014)
ii

Region
Climate
Elevation (ft)
Populationv
Population
Density per
Square Milev
Bicycle
Friendly
Community
Award Levelv
Walk Friendly
Community
Award Levelv

Layton, UT
Mountain
West
Hot-summer
continental
(Dfa)
4,350
69,508

Albany, OR

West
Sacramento, CA
Northern
California

Claremont, CA
Southern
California

Edina, MN

Goshen, IN

Portage, MI

Redmond, WA

Midwest

Midwest

Midwest

Pacific NW

Mediterranean
(Csb)

Mediterranean
(Csa)

Hot-summer
continental (Dfa)

Hot-summer
continental (Dfa)

Hot-summer
continental (Dfa)

Mediterranean
(Csb)

Mediterranean
(Csa)

210
51,210

1,168
35,569

922
48,940

801
32,297

879
47,137

43
56,704

30’
49,946

3,159

2,919

2,664

3,167

1,989

1,462

~3,500/sq mi

~2,300/sq mi

n/a

Bronze

Silver

Bronze

Bronze

Bronze

Silver

Bronze

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

Pacific NW

Bicycle Commute Mode Share

Walk Commute Mode Share

Baselinev

0.17%

1.26%

Low Estimate

0.75%

0.28%

Mid Estimate

1.51%

0.75%

High Estimate

1.66%

2.95%

Future Estimates
Baseline

Low

Mid

High

Total

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Bike and Walk Trips

2,891,000

4,698,000

1,807,000

6,916,000

4,025,000

11,742,000

8,851,000

Miles Biked and Walked

2,183,000

3,589,000

1,406,000

5,113,000

2,930,000

6,456,000

4,273,000

Hours of Physical Activity

598,000

770,000

172,000

977,000

379,000

1,364,000

766,000

Recommended Physical Activity Min. Met

4,600

5,900

1,300

7,500

2,900

10,500

5,900

Physical Activity Need Met

6.62%

8.52%

1.90%

10.81%

4.19%

15.10%

8.48%

Healthcare Cost Savings

$110,000

$207,000

$97,000

$320,000

$210,000

$496,000

$386,000

Future Estimates
Low

Baseline

Mid

High

Total

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

CO2 Emissions Reduced (lbs)

1,632,000

5,457,000

3,825,000

9,473,000

7,841,000

11,639,000

10,007,000

Other Vehicle Emissions Reduced (lbs)

33,000

69,000

36,000

111,000

78,000

162,000

129,000

Total Vehicle Emission Costs Reduced

$33,000

$72,000

$39,000

$115,000

$82,000

$167,000

$134,000

Future Estimates
Low

Baseline

Mid

High

Total

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Annual VMT Reduced

1,004,000

2,145,000

1,141,000

3,423,000

2,419,000

4,996,000

3,992,000

Reduced Traffic Congestion Costs

$70,000

$150,000

$80,000

$240,000

$170,000

$350,000

$280,000

Reduced Vehicle Crash Costs

$501,000

$1,073,000

$572,000

$1,712,000

$1,211,000

$2,498,000

$1,997,000

Reduced Road Maintenance Costs

$151,000

$322,000

$171,000

$513,000

$362,000

$750,000

$599,000

Household Vehicle Operation Cost Savings

$573,000

$1,224,000

$651,000

$1,952,000

$1,379,000

$2,848,000

$2,275,000

Total Transportation Benefits

$1,295,000

$2,769,000

$1,474,000

$4,417,000

$3,122,000

$6,446,000

$5,151,000

Future Estimates
Low

Baseline

High

Mid

Total

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Health Benefits

$110,000

$207,000

$97,000

$320,000

$210,000

$496,000

$386,000

Environmental Benefits

$33,000

$72,000

$39,000

$115,000

$82,000

$167,000

$134,000

Transportation Benefits

$1,295,000

$2,769,000

$1,474,000

$4,417,000

$3,122,000

$6,446,000

$5,151,000

Total Benefits

$1,438,000

$3,048,000

$1,610,000

$4,852,000

$3,414,000

$7,109,000

$5,671,000

Region
Climate
Elevation (ft)
Populationv
Population Density per
Square Milev
Bicycle Friendly
Community Award
Levelv
Walk Friendly
Community Award
Levelv

Tooele Co., UT
Mountain West
Hot-summer continental
(Dfa)
~5,000
59,973

Summit Co., UT
Mountain West
Warm-summer
continental (Dfb)
~7,000
37,877

~5,700
56,684

Grand Co., UT
Mountain West
Cold steppe climate
(BSk)
~4,000
9,348

Driggs, ID
Mountain West
Warm-summer
continental (Dfb)
6,109
2,141

Teton Co., ID
Mountain West
Warm-summer
continental (Dfb)
~6,000
10,212

Cold steppe climate (BSk)

8.6

20.2

19.2

2.5

775

22.7

n/a

Silver (Park City,
Snyderville Basin)

n/a

Silver

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

Region

Crete, NE
Midwest

Climate

Mediterranean (Csa)

Elevation (ft)
Population
Population Density
per Square Mile
Bicycle Friendly
Community Award
Level
Walk Friendly
Community Award
Level

Garfield Co., CO
Mountain West

Sheboygan Co., WI
Midwest

Ridgecrest, CA
Central California

Warm-summer continental (Dfb)

Desert arid (BWh)

1,352
7,055

Rushford, MN
Midwest
Warm-summer
continental (Dfb)
728
2,102

~600
115,168

2,290
28,282

Aurora, MN
Midwest
Warm-summer continental
(Dfb)
1,470
1,587

2,416

1,229

225

1,361

424

n/a

n/a

Bronze

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

n/a

Bicycle Commute Mode Share

Walk Commute Mode Share

Baseline

0.33%

2.53%

Low Estimate

1.35%

2.53%

Mid Estimate

1.79%

3.44%

High Estimate

2.44%

5.33%

v

Future Estimates
Baseline

Low

Mid

High

Total

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Bike and Walk Trips

4,033,000

5,199,000

1,166,000

7,019,000

2,986,000

10,499,000

6,466,000

Miles Biked and Walked

3,170,000

4,547,000

1,377,000

5,491,000

2,321,000

7,099,000

3,929,000

Hours of Physical Activity

874,000

1,012,000

138,000

1,189,000

315,000

1,521,000

647,000

Recommended Physical Activity Min. Met

6,723

7,785

1,062

9,146

2,423

11,700

4,977

Physical Activity Need Met

11.21%

12.98%

1.77%

15.25%

4.04%

19.51%

8.30%

Healthcare Cost Savings

$121,000

$173,000

$52,000

$233,000

$112,000

$344,000

$223,000

Future Estimates
Low

Baseline

Mid

High

Total

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

CO2 Emissions Reduced (lbs)

2,250,000

5,798,000

3,548,000

7,722,000

5,472,000

10,810,000

8,560,000

Other Vehicle Emissions Reduced (lbs)

45,000

76,000

31,000

102,000

57,000

148,000

103,000

Total Vehicle Emission Costs Reduced

$46,000

$78,000

$32,000

$105,000

$59,000

$152,000

$106,000

Future Estimates
Low

Baseline

Mid

High

Total

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Annual VMT Reduced

1,383,000

2,342,000

959,000

3,142,000

1,759,000

4,557,000

3,174,000

Reduced Traffic Congestion Costs

$97,000

$164,000

$67,000

$220,000

$123,000

$319,000

$222,000

Reduced Vehicle Crash Costs

$692,000

$1,172,000

$480,000

$1,571,000

$879,000

$2,278,000

$1,586,000

Reduced Road Maintenance Costs

$208,000

$351,000

$143,000

$471,000

$263,000

$683,000

$475,000

Household Vehicle Operation Cost Savings

$788,000

$1,335,000

$547,000

$1,791,000

$1,003,000

$2,597,000

$1,809,000

Total Transportation Benefits

$1,785,000

$3,022,000

$1,237,000

$4,053,000

$2,268,000

$5,877,000

$4,092,000

Future Estimates
Low

Baseline

High

Mid

Total

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Total

Difference

Health Benefits

$121,000

$173,000

$52,000

$233,000

$112,000

$344,000

$223,000

Environmental Benefits

$46,000

$78,000

$32,000

$105,000

$59,000

$152,000

$106,000

Transportation Benefits

$1,785,000

$3,022,000

$1,237,000

$4,053,000

$2,268,000

$5,877,000

$4,092,000

Total Benefits

$1,952,000

$3,273,000

$1,321,000

$4,391,000

$2,439,000

$6,373,000

$4,421,000

Indirect Economic Benefits
Introduction & Methodology
Economic impacts of connectivity result from improved intermodal accessibility. Improved
accessibility is measured through connectivity of customer base and economic generators such
as employment and retail centers. The effectiveness of improved accessibility is measured
using financial metrics such as sales per square foot for retail and real property values for all
development types. Benefits from improved connectivity vary based on scale, geography, and
land use type. Many of the benefits are measurable in the economy or in the fiscal well -being of
households and gove rnments. Some of the benefits are intangible such as increased personal
time to spend with family and friends, improved overall health, and well -being and improved
area air quality.
The economic benefits analysis undertaken in the Utah Street Connectivity Study focused on
city-wide indirect impacts on retail sales 1. We used two measures. First, we estimated a rate of
retail business impact based on the change in store front traffic volumes. Second, we identified
the revised 7-minute drive market-area accessibility. Both of these analyses were complet ed
via network analyst. Traffic volume measures were completed by the University of Utah traffic
lab, using their analysis we measured the change in store front traffic before and after
connectivity improvements were made by each retail location. Additionally, we used the same
data to measure the difference in market capture before and after network improvements.
Our approach focused on the context of the connections made. In order to estimate impacts, we
needed to identify what was being connected. If two residential neighborhoods are connected,
there might not be a benefit to retail sales, but there could be a benefit to property values. One
study showed that a 10 percent increase in walkability resulted in a 1 to 9 percent growth in
property value and made the point that walkable property types generated higher income and
therefore have the potential to generate returns as good as or better than less walkable
properties, assuming an efficient and well -functioning real estate market (Pivo 2010). Bicycle
networks can have a positive impact on home values as well. The median home values in
Minneapolis-St. Paul increased by $510 for every quarter of mile near an off -street bicycle
trail, while homes within a half-mile of Indiana’s Monon Trail had an average of 11 percent
increase in sale price when compared to similar homes further away (Alliance for Biking &
Walking 2013). For a local or neighborhood retailer, improved connectivity to residential uses
results in improved access to an area’s customer base, generally resulting in higher sales per
square foot.
In order to estimate rates of impact on retail sales we focused on specific sectors that have
multiple locations and tend to be visited more often. We avoided regional retail magnets such
as malls, car dealerships, and specialty retail. Instead we wanted to estimate impacts on retail
types most likely to attract neighborhood -based customers. These retail types were:
supermarkets and grocery stores, full and lim ited service restaurants, gas stations, and
warehouse supercenters such as Wal -Mart/Target. Table 1 shows the number of business es by
retail sector in each study area.
Table 1: Number of Businesses by Retail Sectors
Layton

Lehi

Tooele

Full-service restaurants

49

16

13

Limited-service restaurants

92

62

20

Warehouse clubs and supercenters

3

3

1

Gasoline stations

26

16

8

Supermarkets and other grocery stores

9

4

3

Source: opendata.utah.gov, Firmfind County Businesses 2014

Due to data limitations, we were not able to obtain property values and actual retail sales by individual business. This
limited our ability to analyze connectivity impacts on property value and actual retail sales.
1

The study area boundary for the indirect economic impact assessment was determined by the
original boundary of the existing network. Only those businesses that were located inside the
road network were analyzed.
Layton Case Study
Figure 1 illustrates the e xisting major road network, in gray, and the connectivity
improvements, in yellow. There were major improvements throughout Layton, especially on the
east side of the city. Major connections were made inside residential neighborhood s.
Additionally, some of these connections directly improved access to retail nodes.
The connection improvements in Layton incre ased the length of the road network by 16
percent, adding an additional 40 lane miles. In addition, 3 -hour traffic volumes increased by
2.92 percent acr oss the city. As a result of these improvements, study retail sectors saw major
increase in market accessibility within the 7 -minute drive time.

Figure 1: Layton City -wide Connectivity Improvements
From the connectivity improvements , potential impacts to retail sectors were calculated and
are presented in Figure 2. Warehouse clubs and supercenters have the potential to increase
their sales by 1.4 percent. Supermarkets and grocery stores could see an increase of 0.9
percent, gas stations could see similar impacts with the opportunity to increase sales by 0.8
percent. Limited and Full service restaurants saw almost no change.

Layton Estimated Sales Impact
Supermarkets and other grocery stores

0.9%

Gasoline stations

0.8%

Warehouse clubs and supercenters

1.4%

Limited-service restaurants
Full-service restaurants

0.1%
0.0%

0.0%

0.5%

1.0%

Figure 2: Layton City-wide Connectivity Impacts

1.5%

2.0%

2.5%

3.0%

3.5%

For context, if we were to apply the percentages Figure 2 to actual sales for Layton in 2015, an
additional $4.9 million in sales could have occurred as seen in Table 2. The largest impact was
seen in Warehouse clubs and Supercenter retailers such as Wal -Mart/Target. These types of
retailers could have seen an additional $3.7 millio n in sales across the city. Grocery store
could see an additional $ 800,000 while restaurants could experience an additional $200,000 in
sales and gas stations an additional $163,000.

Table 2: Layton Potential Sales Increase from Connectivity Improvements

2015 Taxable Sales

Increased
Sales from
Connectivity

Food Services & Drinking Places(722000-722999) (Full/Limited Restaurants)
General Merchandise Stores(452000-452999) (Warehouse/Supercenters)
Gasoline Stations(447000-447999)
Food & Beverage Stores(445000-445999) (Grocery Stores)

$144,183,674
$258,035,098
$19,378,449
$91,335,306

$195,336
$3,740,962
$163,406
$797,631

Total
Source: State of Utah Tax Commission, GSBS Consulting

$512,932,527

$4,897,335

Lehi Case Study
Figure 3 illustrates the existing major road network, in gray, and the connectivity
improvements, in yellow. There were major improvements throughout L ehi. The west side of
the city saw major connectivity updates. There is very little development currently and limited
retail on the west side of the city. However, this area is poised for new development and these
connections will be vital to the economic success and quality of life of the area. Additional
connections were made in the center of the city, providing qu icker access to retail
establishments. Improvements were also made in the northern part of the study area, while
there isn’t much retail here, quicker access to existing nodes was improved.
The connection improvements in Lehi increased the length of the ro ad network by 30 percent,
adding an additional 77 lane miles. In addition, 3 -hour traffic volumes had a slight decrease of
0.91 percent across the city.

Figure 3: Lehi City-wide Connectivity Improvements
From the connectivity improvements, potential im pacts to retail sectors were calculated and
are presented in Figure 4. G rocery stores have the potential to increase sales by 0.8 percent,
while warehouse clubs and supercenters could see a similar impact of 0.7 percent. Gas stations
could experience an in crease of 0.5 percent in sales. Limited service restaurants could see an
additional 0.8 percent increase while full -service restaurants could see a slight increase of 0.1
percent.

Lehi Estimated Sales Impact
Supermarkets and other grocery stores

0.8%

Gasoline stations

0.5%

Warehouse clubs and supercenters

0.7%

Limited-service restaurants

0.8%

Full-service restaurants

0.1%

0.0%
4: Lehi City-wide Connectivity Impacts

0.5%

1.0%

1.5%

2.0%

2.5%

3.0%

3.5%

Figure

For context, if we were to apply the percentages from Figure 4 to actual sales for Lehi in 2015 ,
an additional $2.6 million in sales could have occurred as seen in Table 3. Warehouse clubs
and supercenters could experience and additional $1.2 million in sa les, while grocery stores
and restaurants could both experience close to $650 ,000 in additional sales. Gas stations could
experience and additional $98 ,000 in annual sales.

Table 3: Lehi Potential Sales Increase from Connectivity Improvements

2015 Taxable Sales

Increased
Sales from
Connectivity

Food Services & Drinking Places(722000-722999) (Full/Limited Restaurants)
General Merchandise Stores(452000-452999) (Warehouse/Supercenters)
Gasoline Stations(447000-447999)
Food & Beverage Stores(445000-445999) (Grocery Stores)

$70,766,007
$170,769,453
$17,776,176
$86,164,276

$650,897
$1,183,998
$97,502
$660,825

Total
Source: State of Utah Tax Commission, GSBS Consulting

$345,475,912

$2,593,221

Tooele Valley Case Study
The majority of unincorporated Tooele Valley’s retail business es are located near Tooele City
limits to the south and near I -80 to the north. As seen in Figure 5 , the majority of the
connections were made in the middle of the study area with little to no retail. However , this
increased the market accessibility of exis ting retail located along SR -36 to those living further
away from exiting major arterials. The connection improvements in Tooele/Erda increased the
length of the road network by 55 percent, adding an additiona l 72 lane miles. In addition, 3 hour traffic volumes increased by 9.68 percent across the area.

Figure 5: Tooele Valley-wide Connectivity Improvements
Figure 6 illustrates the percentage increase in sales from connectivity improvements.
Combined, full and limited service restaurants could see an increase of 4 percent in annual
sales. While this may seem drastic, it is important to understand that the majority of these
establishments are located along a single corridor . Additionally , there are only 33
establishments in the City. With such a small market, any improvements to traffic flow and
market accessibility have significant impacts. Warehouse Clubs and supercenters saw no
change because there is only one of these in our study area. Grocery stores coul d see an
increase of 0.9 percent, while gas stations could experience a minimal impact of 0.2 percent.

Tooele Valley Estimated Sales Impact
Supermarkets and other grocery stores

0.9%

Gasoline stations
Warehouse clubs and supercenters

0.2%
0.0%

Limited-service restaurants

0.6%

Full-service restaurants
0.0%

3.4%
0.5%

6: Tooele Valley-wide Connectivity Impact s

1.0%

1.5%

2.0%

2.5%

3.0%

3.5%

Figure

For context, if we were to apply the percentages from Figure 6 to actual sales for Tooele Valley
in 2015, an additional $ 1.9 million in sales could have occurred as seen in Table 4. Full and
limited service restaurants have to potential to add an additional $1.5 million in annual sales,
while grocery stores have the potential to add over $300,000 annually. Gas stations could see
minimal increase in sales, adding just over $20 ,000, and because there is only one warehouse
club/supercenter establishment, there are no impacts.
Table 4: Tooele Valley Potential Sales Increase from Connectivity Improvements

2015 Taxable Sales

Increased
Sales from
Connectivity

Food Services & Drinking Places(722000-722999) (Full/Limited Restaurants)
General Merchandise Stores(452000-452999) (Warehouse/Supercenters)
Gasoline Stations(447000-447999)
Food & Beverage Stores(445000-445999) (Grocery Stores)

$38,939,342
$111,595,748
$9,500,000
$36,478,976

$1,557,703
$0
$21,792
$314,250

Total
Source: State of Utah Tax Commission, GSBS Consulting

$196,514,066

$1,893,746

Conclusion
One of our most important takeaways is that context of connectivity improvements matters
greatly. When traffic is increased along a storefront, sales typically tend to increase. When
travel time is decreased and the number of customers captured, sales increase. Decreasing
traffic and decreasing the trade area, tends to lead to lower sales.
A key takeaway from our findings is that cities can do more with what they have. Improving
the performance of existing retail is possible through connectivity improve ments. Our findings
are similar to those found in our literature review showing that connectivity results in
improved access to an areas customer base leading to higher sales.
With better data, such as actual sales by location, we can further improve our findings.
Additionally having property valuations can help us quantify the impacts property values will
experience by improving connectivity.

APPENDIX

Public Outreach

UTAH STREET CONNECTIVITY PUBLIC OUTREACH SUMMARY
Community outreach was an important part of the Utah Street Connectivity Study. The community
outreach goals for the study were to:





learn about jurisdictions’ existing attitudes, perceptions, and policy regarding street
connectivity;
query the public at large about their perceptions of the benefits and drawbacks of street
connectivity;
communicate the benefits of street connectivity to communities; and
preview the project’s recommendations with specific Case Study communities.

Consequently, community outreach for the Utah Street Connectivity Study was targeted in two areas: a
set of surveys aimed at Utah communities and a series of community open houses in the selected Case
Study communities.

Surveys
The project team conducted two separate surveys. These surveys aimed to achieve different study
outreach goals. The first survey, targeted to city staff, helped the team understand jurisdictions’ existing
attitudes, perceptions, and policy regarding street connectivity. The second survey helped us query the
public at large about their perceptions of the benefits and drawbacks of street connectivity. Both of
these allowed us to understand the barriers and opportunities for implementing connectivity in
communities, while also building awareness about the project.
Each survey was conducted
using Survey Monkey, which
allowed a link to the survey to
be sent out by anyone. Our
project partners as well as
other jurisdictions and
organizations were essential
in disseminating these links.
Both surveys received a strong
response. The staff survey
received 91 responses. These
responses represented 35
local jurisdictions and
agencies. Most survey takers
were from planning and
engineering departments.

The community survey received 1,300 responses. While these responses were most numerous in the
Case Study communities, they covered communities throughout the state; see map at right for
community survey response distribution.

Staff survey
The staff survey is aimed at the professionals who are creating and implementing policy related to street
connectivity. We aimed to get two things from this survey – 1) what the current state of policy and
community preferences are, and 2) what the possibilities of and barriers to future change are. Following
is the text of the survey:
Utah Street Connectivity Study Community Survey: City staff and leaders
Street connectivity is the degree to which streets in a community are connected to one another. The
Utah Street Connectivity Study seeks to assess the benefits of street connectivity; provide
recommendations on how to implement elements of connectivity into Utah communities; and inform
decision-makers and stakeholders how street connectivity can benefit their communities.
Please take a moment to fill out this brief survey. It is important that we gain an understanding of
jurisdictions’ existing attitudes, perceptions, and policy regarding street connectivity. Thank you for your
time.

1) What is your city/jurisdiction?
2) What is your department?
3) How would you describe the attitude towards increasing street connections in your community?
a. Strongly support
b. Somewhat support
c. Neutral/unsure
d. Somewhat oppose
e. Strongly oppose
4) What is your jurisdiction’s current policy approach to street connectivity? Choose all that apply.
a. General Plan and other high level documents support high street connectivity.
b. Zoning and development standards require or strongly incent high street connectivity.
c. General Plan and other high level documents prevent street connectivity
d. Zoning and development standards prevent street connectivity
e. None applies
5) Describe how these policy documents support street connectivity if applicable.
6) Which of the following community goals are reasons your community might be interested in
increased street connectivity? Choose up to three.
a. Effective infrastructure
b. Livable communities
c. Accessibility of destinations
d. Interlocal and regional compatibility
e. Overcoming geographical barriers
f. Safety and health
g. Regional mobility
h. Transportation choice
i. Economic vitality
j. Growth management
k. Other

7) What are the biggest barriers to increased street connectivity in your community? Choose all that
apply.
a. Desire for individual privacy
b. Concern over neighborhood traffic
c. Perceptions of crime
d. Property ownership patterns
e. Availability of right-of-way
f. Internal department coordination
g. Funding for roadways and sidewalks
h. Increased cost to developers
i. Other
8) Assuming that your community values increased street connectivity, which of the following tools
would be most useful? Choose all that apply.
a. A manual containing specific policy recommendations
b. Materials educating the public about the benefits of street connectivity
c. Materials educating decision makers about the benefits of street connectivity and
strategies for achieving it
d. Assistance with developing interlocal agreements with other governmental entities
9) What other thoughts do you have about the subject of street connectivity in your community?

Public survey
The public survey presented a key challenge – “street connectivity” is not something most people think
about. So, we need to get at this concept by asking members of the public about aspects of their travel
habits and community preferences. We did this broadly, asking questions whose answers we can link to
the implications for street connectivity (What is most important about your driving routes? What is your
biggest concern about your neighborhood?), while also honing in on some issues we know are key to the
street connectivity discussion (To what degree do you support connecting cul-de-sacs (dead end streets)
in your community to other streets?). We also asked a few “identifier” questions so we can get a sense,
within the context of an informal survey, which demographics have which preferences and perceptions.
This information was used, in conjunction with the staff survey described above, to assess the existing
perceptions and opinions about street connectivity. In particular, this information was valuable for us to
understand the barriers facing the implementation of connectivity strategies, and to develop strategies
to mitigate those concerns. This information also helped us understand the relative importance survey
respondents place on the community goals developed from the Working Group.
DRAFT Utah Street Connectivity Study Community Survey: General community
Street connectivity is the degree to which streets in a community are connected to one another. The
Utah Street Connectivity Study seeks to assess the benefits of street connectivity; provide
recommendations on how to implement elements of connectivity into Utah communities; and inform
decision-makers and stakeholders how street connectivity can benefit their communities.
Please take a moment to fill out this brief survey. It is important that we gain an understanding of your
opinion on the benefits and drawbacks of connecting streets to one another. Thank you for your time.

1) What is your zip code?
2) What is your age?
3) What is most important to you about your driving routes?
a. They are short
b. They are fast
c. They are safe
d. They are direct
e. They are interesting or aesthetically pleasing
f. Other
4) What is your biggest concern about driving?
a. Trip will take too long
b. Risks associated with turning
c. Getting in an accident
d. Waiting too long at traffic signals
e. Impact on the environment
f. Other
5) What is most important to you about your walking routes?
a. They are short
b. They are safe

c. They are direct
d. They are interesting or aesthetically pleasing
e. They provide good exercise
f. They connect to destinations I frequently visit
g. Other
6) What are the most significant obstacles preventing you from walking more?
a. I do not enjoy or am unable to walk
b. The lack of pedestrian infrastructure (such a sidewalks, crosswalks, or trails) near my
home
c. It takes too long to get where I want to go
d. Potential destinations are either too far away or accessed by an indirect route
e. There is nothing near my home that is worth walking to
f. Personal safety
g. Other
7) To what degree do you support or oppose the following statement: I would be willing to ride
transit more if bus stops or train stations were more easily accessible by walking or biking from
my home.
a. Strongly support
b. Moderately support
c. Neutral
d. Moderately oppose
e. Strongly oppose
8) What is most important to you about your neighborhood?
a. Good neighbors
b. Amenities (stores, parks, freeways, public transit nearby
c. Safety from traffic
d. Safety from crime
e. Ease of access
f. Location
g. Other
9) What is your biggest concern about your neighborhood?
a. Lack of amenities
b. Traffic
c. Crime
d. Growth
e. Far away from places I go
f. Other
10) To what degree do you support connecting cul-de-sacs (dead end streets) in your community to
other streets?
a. Strongly support
b. Moderately support
c. Neutral
d. Moderately oppose
e. Strongly oppose

11) To what degree do you support connecting cul-de-sacs (dead end streets) in your community to
other streets ONLY WITH WALKING AND BICYCLING PATHS (no connections for motor vehicles)?
a. Strongly support
b. Moderately support
c. Neutral
d. Moderately oppose
e. Strongly oppose
12) What is the most important reason or reasons for your answer in the previous question? Pick as
many as three.
a. Traffic-related safety
b. Personal security from crime
c. Privacy
d. Desire for better access to amenities and destinations
e. More effective emergency services
f. Ability to walk or bike in my community
g. Better access to public transit
h. Other
13) Which of the following community goals are most important to you? Choose up to three.
a. Effective infrastructure
b. Livable communities
c. Accessibility of destinations
d. Interlocal and regional compatibility
e. Overcoming geographical barriers
f. Safety and health
g. Regional mobility
h. Transportation choice
i. Economic vitality
j. Growth management
k. Other

Surveys takeaways
The surveys yielded a number of interesting conclusions. These are summarized below:
Safety is equated with disconnected streets.





Traffic-related safety is important for all modes – no. 1 issue for driving, walking, and bicycling
One of top reasons for not wanting to connect cul-de-sacs
Traffic-related safety drives many neighborhood opinions
Staff survey agreed that this is No. 1 barrier to increasing connectivity

Privacy is important to people.


Does typology concept address this? i.e. cul-de-sacs appropriate in some contexts but need to
be managed?

Retrofitting disconnected street networks



For these reasons, about 40 percent of survey respondents oppose the general idea of
connecting cul-de-sacs through to other streets
However, 73 percent for connecting cul-de-sacs for pedestrians and cyclists only – only 11
percent against

Importance of access to destinations




Both regional destinations and neighborhood destinations
Interesting and connecting to destinations are also important
Top barriers for walking is destinations are too far and it takes too long to get where I want to
go

Growth management and quality of life are very important to people.


Opportunity to show impact of connectivity on maintenance of quality of life

People want to use alternative transportation.





30 percent of people put “Good options for a wide range of transportation modes” as a top 3
issue
Over half of respondents (53%) agreed with the statement that “I would be willing to ride transit
more if bus stops or train stations were more easily accessible by walking or biking from my
home.”
For city staff, “Good options for a wide range of transportation modes” is top goal likely to lead
to increased connectivity

4 of top 5 things people like about their neighborhoods are directly influenced by street connectivity:





Safety from crime (67%)
Safety from vehicular traffic (30%)
Amenities (stores, schools, parks) are nearby (33%)
It is close to my job, school or other regular destinations (26%)

Open House Summary
The Utah Street Connectivity Study project team held a series of three open houses to present the
study’s findings and preview the Utah Street Connectivity Guide. The open houses were held in the
study’s Case Study communities of Lehi, Layton, and Tooele Valley on December 6, 7, and 13
respectively.
The open houses included a series of presentation boards summarizing the key aspects of the study as
well as the specific case studies in the host community. Copies of these displays are included in this
appendix.
Attendance at the open houses was a mix of city staff (both from the host community and from other
communities throughout the region) and the general public. Staff from 11 different local jurisdictions or
agencies attended.




8 people attended the Tooele Valley Open House;
5 people attended the Lehi Open House;
22 people attended the Layton Open House.

Only one comment was received, related to a concern about the increase of traffic on Highway 138 in
Tooele Valley and two new schools opening next fall.

PROJECT OVERVIEW
To help promote our shared regional and community goals, the Wasatch Front Regional Council, Utah Transit Authority, Mountainland
Association of Governments, and Utah Department of Transportation are collaborating to create the Utah Street Connectivity Study.
Street connectivity occurs when streets in a community are connected to one another. Higher street connectivity yields numerous
mobility, livability, economic, and environmental benefits for communities. The Utah Street Connectivity Study seeks to assess and
quantify these benefits; provide recommendations on how to implement elements of connectivity into Utah communities; and inform
decision-makers and stakeholders.
This project was undertaken throughout 2016 and included:
• A Literature Review of the metrics, benefits, and strategies for street
connectivity.
• A set of surveys that asked both Utah local jurisdiction/agency staff and Utah
communities about issues related to street connectivity.
• Case studies in three Utah communities - Lehi, Layton, and Tooele County.
• The development of Street Connectivity Typologies that give custom
guidance for different types of communities.
• A project document that brings the above elements together into a guide and
toolbox for street connectivity for Utah communities.

Users of this document will be able to:
• Understand the aspects of street connectivity
• Understand why street connectivity matters to our Utah communities
• See the quantified benefits of improving street connectivity
• Understand how street connectivity applies to your specific community
• Select appropriate strategies to improve the street connectivity in your
community

In this OPEN HOUSE, we will show you WHAT street connectivity is, WHY is it important, and HOW you can increase it in your community.

Credit: Rick Willoughby

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

WHAT IS CONNECTIVITY?
Street connectivity is a simple idea – providing a
network of public streets whose intersections allow for
easy movement around it.

Look at the two images
to the right.
The images show
two street networks,
and they are clearly
different. But why are
they different?

Upon looking closer, however, we found that street
connectivity is more elusive to define in detail.

Street connectivity has four aspects:

How many
streets each
intersection is
connected to

Network Density
How many
streets and
intersections
are in a given
area

How we measure it:
Link-node ratio.

How we measure it:
Intersections per square mile.

Link-node ratio =
the number of links, or street lengths, (
)
divided by
the number of nodes - intersections/dead ends ( )
within a given area ( )

Intersections per square mile =
the number of intersections ( )
in a given area ( )
divided by
the square mileage of that given area

Link-node ratio should be as high as possible.

Intersections per square mile
should be as high as possible.

Destination Access

/

Street Connectivity

Accommodation of All Users

How well the
street network
connects
to specific
destinations

How we measure it:
The travel-shed.
Travel-shed =
the area reached (
)
within a given distance (
from a destination ( )
using the street network (

How we measure it:
Pedestrian block length.
)
)

The travel-shed should be as large as possible.

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

How well the
network serves
all users,
especially
pedestrians

Pedestrian block length =
the distance, or gap (
),
between walkable streets or paths
(

)

The pedestrian block length should
be as small as possible.

WHY IS CONNECTIVITY IMPORTANT?
A highly connected street network – one where a dense set of intersections each connect to several streets, that connects a community to its key
destinations and is walkable – provides a multitude of benefits for Utah communities.
This guide has quantified these benefits. Using both a review of studies and literature available as well as modeling of potential benefits in case
studies of three Utah communities, we show how an increase in connectivity causes the achievementFund
of benefits
associated
with
community
goals
the project
commonly found in Utah communities. These include mobility, transportation choice, health and safety, infrastructure and growth management,
economic vitality, and environmental conservation.

CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES

CONNECTIVITY CREATES

CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES

CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES

CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES

MOBILITY

TRANSPORTATION
CHOICE

EMERGENCY SERVICE

SAFETY

THE ECONOMY

=
1%

each
increase of connectivity
yields the same travel time benefits as

1 lane mile of roadway

High intersection density
is the best predictor for
use of active transportation

Adding 300 feet of roadway
between two subdivisions in
Charlotte, N.C.,
increased the fire station
service area by 17 percent

The highest risks of
fatal or severe crashes
tend to occur in areas with

low intersection
densities

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

Compact, connected,
walkable neighborhoods
can command a price premium
of 40 to 100 percent
compared to nearby less-connected
neighborhoods

UTAH STREET CONNECTIVITY SURVEY
A set of surveys asked both Utah local jurisdiction and agency staff and Utah communities about opinions on street connectivity and existing connectivity-related policy but also opinions about
broader topics such as neighborhoods and transportation. The community survey received 1,300 responses while the staff survey received nearly 100. Some key findings are summarized below.

Safety is the aspect of transportation
most important to people.
Safety is often equated
with disconnected streets
(Our study has shown this
not to be the case).

For driving, walking
and bicycling,

56%

36%

42%

of survey respondents say
safety is the most
important issue - the top
response for each mode.

Yet the staff survey
agreed that this
perception is the No. 1
barrier to increasing
connectivity.

People want to use alternative transportation.
Over half of respondents
agreed with the statement that
“I would be willing to ride transit
more if bus stops or train stations
were more easily accessible by
walking or biking from my home.”

30%

of community survey respondents identified
“good options for a wide range of transportation
modes” as one of the most important
neighborhood issues.

Access to destinations is very important to
people.
/

/

One of the top
barriers for walking is
destinations are too
far and “it takes too
long to get where I
want to go.”

Both neighborhood and regional
destinations are important to access.

Cul-de-sac connection is a flashpoint for the
street connectivity discussion.

?

Survey
respondents
were split
on generally
connecting
cul-de-sacs
through to
other
streets, for
all traffic.

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

However

73%

supported
connecting
cul-de-sacs
for
pedestrians
and cyclists
only – only
11 % against

HOW DO WE INCREASE CONNECTIVITY?
• PLANS AND POLICIES are higher-level policies that

• STREET AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS are concrete rules

create the foundation for good street connectivity.
I-8
PA 0E
RL WB
EY
S

OF
F
E EB
I-80 ILL ON
TH
FOO

WARR
W

CA D
E
CAS

HO
MONTEVERDE
EL R
A NC
FLEET WOOD

WEST WOOD

3570

I-215E SB

3650

3380

3340

PLAZA

RA
IN
I
PLA ER
TE A
U

3300 ON

LA MESA

LOS ALTOS

TO
EL SERR
RI

I-2
215E S
B

PLAZA

TERRA
ACE VIEW

AS
TR
O

ST
RE
SID AM
E

1SST ROCK
BR
RIDGE

VIR
RGINIIA
I-2
215EE NB 3
800 ON
MI
LL
CREST
OFF
I-215E S
B 3900

V IE

W

CLIFF

PA
RK

PARK TER
RACE

LARES

NK
BR
OC
KB
A
D

OA
KS

ES
T

WS
MAT
HE
RK
PA

VI

EW

V
CO

RE
EC

CUMO
RA H

ST
AD
I

PIN OAK

D

EW
VI

R
ZA

LA
EM
AH

TH
HA
GO
T

NE
FF

H

449
0

TH
OU
SA
N

LL
HI

BR
OC
KB
AN
K

N
SA
OU
TH

IS

RK
PA

ST

IS
ON
AD

KS
OA

AD
ON

AB
IN

LUTO

W
WASA
TCH
ACHILLES
MA
R

S

MULHOLLAND

DIANA
PA
RK

E
CR
EW
VI

VI
EW
CR

I-2
215EE NB
I-22
33 15E
00 NB
OF 3900 I-215E SB 3900 ON
F

I-21
5E S
SUNS
B
ET
VIEW
SU
NS
ET
V IE
W
ON
NV
LO
RE

m
n

UN
A

ILL

FO
RT

PARK
H

LE
DG
EM
ON
T

IDLE
WILD

LANAR
K

OAKVIEW

CREST OAK

ASH

3275

OLLYMPIC

LE
GI

AD

TH

T

QUA
IL P
OIN

MILEH
I

GH

DEERCREEK

K
VI EYS
EW

3530

GLORIA

00
330

3130
3125

3170

SANTA
ROSA

LAURELCREST

TWINBROOK

3145

3100
VIKING

PEACH

3380

VALLEY

GRACE

METROPOLITAN

850

3075
3010

3040
E
ES
T

W
AY
M
AR
K

CE
L

PAIGE

2940

2890
SON
SOR
EN

FLYNN

SUNNYDALE

2900

2740

2940

TANNER
GARDENS

2700

KIM
BA
RY

I-215E SB 3
300 OFF

LORIEN

2870

KATHERIN
NE
2900

FALLON

2700

OAKWOOD

2780

LAVAR

2910

OAKWOOD

OAKWOOD
D

PIONEER

CRESTBROOK

LIT TLE
FARM

2500

2455

IDE

2445
ARNET TE

2
2300
E

HILL
S

WATSONS
CREEK

MILLHA
V

W
WICKL
O

EAST WOO
OD

BEC
KY

KNUDSON

2175
5

2410
EN

UC
EV
SP
R

2175

2110

2035

HO
LL
OW

YOUNG
HAVEN
23
300
IE W

2070

2145

BROOK
EAST MIL
L
1950

1950

1915

2140

HONEYCUT

1900

1860

BIRCH

WA
SAT
CH

CONR
AD

I-221
155E
ES
B

1500

3610

27
00

2800

2750

2700

LOLA

CANYON
VIEW

LINDA

FLORENCE

2540
2520

OAKWOOD

GREGSON

MIRAMAR

2790

2520

2475

W
VIE
LAK
E

2225

MO
OTT

10
221

2045

21
100

LY
HOLLY

212
25 VERDANT

1940

2000

1940

EN

RG
RE

EV
E

UNNAMED

GEORGETO
OWN

1885
MELBOURNE

1885

KENWOOD

DEVEREAUX

2300

VENA
R

FISSHER

CONNOR

1810

1730
MILLHOLLOW
CANYO
N

ORCHARD 1715
OY
O

AR
R

I-2
15
45 E S
B
OF 00
I--2
F
155E
45 SB
OF 00
F

INVERARY

1935

MELBOURNE

1800

KENWOOD

IM
MPERIAL

1640
0

1500
0

1575

MAPLE

1460
W
LLO

FARM MEADOW

STOCK
BRIDG
E
FARM
BRIDGE

GARDEN
SPR
RING

EDWIN
475
0

BON
NER

BRO
OKW
I

SH
ILL
PA OH
RK

1225

WOOD
D
BROO
K

REEDTAIL
HAWK
BAY
COO
OPERS
HAW
AWK BAY

1140 E

1070
1110

UN
NA
MED
D

WEST VI
EW

1350

1350
MUI
RFIE
LD
UIRFIELD
MU

EM
E A
SPR RA
L
ING D

ORCHARD
PARK

1400
EMMA

1400

1300
1140
RANCHFIELLD

1620

1335

1570

1530

ORCHARD

1410

EUROPA

ALTA
LOMA

14
65

LEMM
MON

MO
ONTECITO
1380

SKYVIEW

0E
1300

1450

1215
1175

1220

1135
SAG

1570

1200

ALTA
VISTA
WEDGEWOOD

CHRISTINE

1100

1200

GARDEN

1025

950

1025

2075

LA RUE

OREGON

R
TE
PA
IN

RICH
HMON
ND

1000
LINCOLN

BE
RT

1000

MI
LL

CAROLYN
CAROLYN

30
103

1040

1000

80
850

RED SAGE

2130

800
800

800
DORIE

825

850

900

860

MAPLE
VIEW

0E
900

775

MEGAN

700

EWELL
730

785
785
V NWINKLE
VA

2100

YUMA

LAKE

700

700

LAKE

800

SCOTTT

ARARAT

715

SCOT T
PARK

EMPIR
RE

805

700
565

635 OLD
FARM

620
615

JULLEP

05

O

570
0
590

620

650

PARK

390

570

510

LARKWOOD

420

N
DOREEN

LARES

IT E
WH

TA
CA
AR

HUNTERS
RIDGE

E
UN

IS

GR
E
VIS EN
TA
BEELLA
VEERD
DE

400
380

490

430

465

500

200

300
N
UNKNOWN

OWN

700 E

MA ST
MAIN

STATE ST
UNK
N

ES
PT
NE

PAX

T

ON
AD

HERM

RS
WE
PO

RY
GA

US
MP
OLY

UN
KN
OW
N

T
UN
MO

STATE

WEST TEMPLE

W

ES

ER
JUPITT

IDLEWILD

1115

478
0

N

MOU
NTAI

N

M
OU
NT
AI

BER
FOU

HE
RM

FORT
UNA

ROGER

V IE

OLYMPUS
VIEW

F

K
OA ACE
RR
TE
D
IE L
IR F
IN
FA
MOUNTA

MU
HO RRAY
LLAD
A
AY

TH
RU

EVELYN

FF
EASTCLI

EAST
OAK
S

CHAUNDR
A

IS
LO

CER
ES

SPRUCE

A
NAD
BER

OA
KC
LIF

BARBARA

LOIS

m
n

BR
OC
KB
AN
K

O
UN
JU

MARS

HERM
ES

RAN
CH
VIEW

BERNADA

8. A minimum of twenty five (25) percent of
the total landscape area must be xeriscaped as
defined by the Development Code. Xeriscaping
is strongly encouraged in passive open space areas with turf grass used in a central active open
space area.

K
MILLCREEEE
3820

OAKRIM

3900

JUPITTER

MAIN

BONVIEW

DEL MAR

3900

RA
RO

K
HOWICK

DD

RK
PA

300 W

GILROY

A

HALE

300

UPLAND

HERRY

MO
NZ

NT
PHEASA
RIDGE

500 W

SAN RAFAEL

AS
TR
O

OY

700

CR
ES
TW
OO
D

C
CHOKE

MILL

LR
GI

UNKNOWN

KAIBAB

750
UN
KN
OW
N

ON
TET

m
n

APPLE

BRU
CE

4675

MURR
HOLL AY
ADAY

0 ON
3300

CRUI
3835
SE
OLYMPUS
OAKS

m
n

ND
HIGHLA

MURRAY
HOLLADAY
A

4705

MILLSTREAM

MARDONNA

ND
HIGHLA

BONN
ER

PALISADE

EA
ST
W
OO
D

LL

44
35

0
159

ER

AIL
PINT

RUTH
MEADOWS

K W
AC
OO
DD
BL AN
UC
SW
K
LOCH
LOMOND

way in order to create a “street wall” along the
street edge with no front yard setback except to
allow for some minor landscaped areas, courtyards, or plazas. Parking shall not be located between the street and buildings and shall be
placed at the interior portion of the property (see
figure 24).

MILLSTREAM

WA
S
OA ATCH
KS
4620

7. Buildings shall be oriented to the right-of-

m
n

CUMMINGS

CR
AIG

0 6600
00 11,200
,2200

22,400
,4400
FFeet
eet

Adopted 09/11/12

Chapter 37 Design Standards

Adopted 09/11/12

Chapter 37 Design Standards

Adopted 09/11/12

EB

I-880E

YOSEMITE

I-215E NB

OAKRIDGE

B TO

DE

WASATCH

3835

ORCHARD

EL SERRITO

DEL VERDE

EN
I-2215

CASCA

SANTA
T ROSA
A

CUMMINGS

B

GATEWAY OIA
QU
SE

60
33

3900

m
n

ORAINE
MO

3900 S

O

ES

KEM
P NE
R

HTS
GH

ARNET TE

3175

SPRING

3750
ARNET TE

TR
ME

CE
TERRA
VIEW

MILLCREEK D
E

EI
ACE H
TERR

ROBIE
HILL

HA
VE
N

CELES
TE

MOUNTAIN VIEW

AND
ASHL

N
MA

4475

®
v

N
SA AS
C
LU

E
IDG

NN
BO

SR

POND
ORAY

AY
LAD
HOL OD
WO

PU
YM
OL

QUAIL
VISTA

MARIE

MILLCR
EEK CY
N

KER
FOLK
GEE
DRA

MELINDA

2880

3780

3720
DELIA

3345

m
n

BROOKBURN

3600

CRAIG

CRAIG

3735

3700

3400

3370

GAYLA
R

HILLSIDE
PINES

HILLSIDE

3650

3365

RE

TS
AF
CR

QUAIL
VISTA

S

4580
0

GREGSON

15
I-22

TH

3020

S
IT H
SM ESS
C
AC

LORAN HEIGHTS

PEBBLE
GLEN

E
COLEM

3715

S
FF
NE

REL
LAU

3900

DE

3510
SUGAR
LEEAF

33

S
FF
NE

3900

BURN
SI

3395

EVERGREEN

FOUR
WOODS

WIL
MO
TT

TWIN VIEW

ORCHARD

3780

3825

ALVA

KELLER

LOST
RIVER

ND
HIGHLA

0
437

RK
PA

ELGIN

MARGIE

3300 S

80E
I-8
WB TO
B
I-80E W

CH
M
ON
T

JOYCE

3020

ELGIN

3120

3210

O
BT
W

KENT
ON

JOYCE

m
n

3100

CRESTBROOK

OAKWOOD

OLIVE

SNOWMASS

MANOR
RIDGE

4500 S

SP LAK
RI E
NG
S

4560

3600

PIONEER

3370

3380

MILLBROOK

3210

3225

2400

4345

4465

GREGSON

LA
R
CANYON RIM

ELM LEAF

PU
YM K
OL PAR
4705

4500

RANGE

4555

VISTA
QUAIL

TINA

4680

VINTAGE

E
EG
LL
CO

AIL
QU

E

LORI
H
LEIG E
E
IE L

SAGE
PARK

NAMBA

Y
GREENVALLE

60
466

4530

R
JER

GREEN
FLOWER
MILL N
DE
GAR
ME ZEN
AD IA
OW
S

WILLES

N
LA
RYY

A
DIA
CA
AR REEN
G

NKNOWN
UN

T
UN
CO

R
IVA

4500
0

ON
PT
M ST
HA CRE

D

LA DORE

WINDERBROOK

4325

ROYAL
TRO
OON

4380

MILLBROOK

E
OAKRIDG

R
FO
ASH

m
n

PARIS

LEMANS

HN
LOC

4500 4500

CA
ARSON
GA
ARDEN
SEE
GA
RD
EN

TREE
FULLER

AL
NO

RO

NOMA
LINDA

4315

ROWLEY

WILLIAMS
4410

4160
AMBLEWOO

1650

4320

4200

4230

4270

4300

3000

LOUISE

2965

ON
NY W
CA VIE

3020
OAKWOOD

3205

MILLSTREAM

R

SAGEHILL

4280

645

4350

m
n

4165

4170

2960

IGHLAND

4255

4285

4145
IA N

HONEY
CREEK

SIGGARD

BRO
OK

WINDER

PARKCRESTT

m
n

A
GREENBRI

MA
RV

3380

MILL

CLARIDGE

4080

MALIBU
4260

ST MARKS

045

MONTA

4200

MIILLL
R
ER
CORN

MILLCREEK

MOUNTAIN V
IE W

3900

2880

EB

Chapter 37 Design Standards

I-8800
EW
B

39

3990

GDA
MAG

4130

GREGSON

MARIE

AVELINE

3220

ROSE
WILD

GRAND CAYMAN

4149
41
81

LA
ANE

ER
WIND W
O
MEAD

390

4500

4125

SKYVIEW

ANITA

m
n

E EB

0E
I-8

LAMBOURNE

ELMWOOD

FOX POINT

LEONA
TORYN

4119
4129

845

ON
RD
GO

WILLOW

4116

760

JOYE

DOREEN
WIN
GAR DY
DEN

4025

4075

TT
A

LINDA
ROSA

3070

3185

ON
WELLINGT

OSE

NORMANDIE

JEANNINE

YR
MAR

m
n

4055

OLD
FARM

3065
GREGSON BELL TOWER
SUN
MEADOW 3110

3000

2980

0E
I-8

I--80

F
PA OOT
R
H
I-2 LEY ILL
15 S T
ES O
B

2850

2940

W
W OO
ILL D
OW

I-8
0
FO E W
PA OTH B TO
RL ILL
EY
S

EW
B I-880
E EB
I-2215 TO
E SB

D DR
GHLAN
HIG

4200

TROY

4030

4080

4115

LUET TA

3930

m
n

KAY

4050

4100

®
®v
v
®v

3950

RD
EYA
VIN
HIIGHLAND COVE

70
40

STONEHEDGE

3900

V IE
LL
HI

4115

530

COLUMBIA

4090

4140

3770

3800

LO
RE

OK
BRO

COUNTRYSIDE

ORCHARD
FOXBORO

S
LL
HI
ST

PARK
OA
AK

WOODLAKE

UNKNOWN

3990

4010

37
730
MARIPOS
A

3745

MILLCREEK

RE
FO

DELNO

CUTLER

m
n

KIKK
KERT

IRE
SOLITA
INTEGR
A
PANT
E RA

SIERRA

3740

OK
MILLBRO

HYS
MURP

IRIS

STILLMAN

DONE
GAL

2900
0

FISHER

CONNOR
PARK
3035

2860

PLE VIEW
APP

I-880

LAMBOURNE

3210
BAGEND

L
MIL

HIDDEN
ACRES

FISHER

E
MIL AST
LBBR
OO
K

ON
NY
CA

3710
V LEENCIA
MAPLE VA
PA
P
ARK GRAPE 374
VIEW
5
IVY
MEADOW
PINE
ARNECIA
BRISTLE
3825
PINE

3950

MILLSTREAM

BENDEMERE

3170

1719

W
MA HITE
PL
E

MAPLE

m
n

SIE
R
RID RA
GE

T
MON
EDGE

30
000

3060

EK
RE
LLC
MI

EVERGREEN

COLUMBIAN
N

CARMELITA

3670

1045

HILL

GORDON

BRANDT
ASPEN
MEADOWS

3970

35
45

MO
RN
WO IN
N
OD G

IRE

OKLANE
BROO

W
OO
DL
AK
E

4020

CENTRAL

RAL

AILEE

LL

3945

O

3665

LAND
HIGH

PARK
HI
WESTON

DE
LN

BR

ASH TREE

KSH
OO

3580

MONTCLAIR
3625

COLONY
Y

R

RA
SIER W
VIE

3015

3355

LUCK

LUCK
SPRING

0
125

3955

E
DLAK
WOO

T
CEN

®
v

BONITA

980

40
60

3710
3730

ON
LAV

2990

3375

LAV
ON

GLORIETA

A
LAH

3350

LORRA
IN E

EEK

FAIRCLOUGH

3680 3685

3690

REDMAPLE

3990

BEST

AIR
3580
COLONY

REDMAPLE

3805

300

AIL
RIVER TR

OLLOW
VE R H
RIV

N

DA
RD
JO VER
RI WY
PKK

EXPY

CENT
CRESC

HUNDLEY
HAVEN
360
08

H
AR AZE
LE L
NE MIL
LCR

m
n

W
VIEW

DENISE

3150
IMPE
RIA
PARK L

WOODLA
ND

33
45

MELVINA

MO
NT
CL

EMPIRE

3900

3205

3340

RID
GED
ALE
RID
GED
ALE

LORRAINE

LORRAINE
CHAEL
MIC
MILL

IE W

EMPIRE

GRAN
ITEE
MILL
T ITTLYNN
TA

3385

KV
OO
BR

SHADY

SCOT T

NICHO
LS

3940

WOODLAND

RICHES

3370

3375

SHADY
LAKE

MIILLCREEK
PARK

UNKNOWN

MILLER

3150

LINCOLN
OAKS

OND
RICHM

OLD
WILLLAMS

m
n

GREGSON

HORNE

3115

3300

DY
SHA E
TRE

TH

m
n

MANSFIELD

ANGELINA

SPRING VIEW

3900

GUNN

ER
LATIM

EDWARD

3045

NTAIR
MOU

3155

3

3010

ELGIN

WELBY

LISONBEE

UNKNOWN

ELGIN

ELGIN ELGIN

0
930
29

B TO

3435

APPLE
PARK

GREGSON

BA
ARROWS

UNKNOWN

MAR
RY
DOTT T

BOSH
HAM

HT
R IG
IN W
WA

WHITE

5E N

KE
NT
ON

BARBEY

2520

AUSTIN
APPLE
PARK

JEPSON

2815

JONETTA

ELGIN

DARD
HILLS

LEE
WAY

TOPPS

WHITE

ZENITH

IT E
WH

GARDEN

TH

HERITAGE

CLAYBOURNE

DARD

2910

DOW
MEEA
BROOK

T

CLAYBOURNEE

ATTKIN
A

KINGS

3720

VIMONT

2825

PARKER

3680

N
VIMO
A
YUM

CLAYBOURNE
NIBLEY
VIEW

I-80E
EB 2300
SB OFF

I-21

FO
I-88 OTH
0E ILL
EB TO
W
B

ON

L
80E WB FOOTHIIL
I-8

that implement the directives of the high-level policy.

°

WALK MILLCREEK

A program for pedestrian infrastructure in Millcreek Township

Examples of plans that seek to increase connectivity, whether focusing on roads (right) or pedestrian connections (left)

9. Pedestrian
circulation.
Mult-family
residential projects shall provide a circulation
plan and show the following improvements to
improve pedestrian circulation and safety:
(a) Pedestrian walkways that interconnect
the adjacent street(s), open spaces, parking
areas, building entrys, adjacent sites and
adjacent master planned trails where
applicable. Each building located along a
public road must provide a sidewalk
connection from the building entrance to the
public sidewalk.
(b) Walkways shall be hard surfaced with
concrete, brick pavers or asphalt.
(c) Crosswalks shall be placed where
pedestrian walkways cross streets and
internal roads and shall be painted or made
of concrete or brick pavers.

velopment or unless otherwise approved by the
Planning Commission and City Council.

Section 37.050. Connectivity Standards
(New 04/26/16)

A. Purpose. These standards are intended to create a
connected transportation system between neighborhoods and commercial areas within the City. The
specific purposes of this Section include:

• RETROFIT TOOLS are methods to improve the street
connectivity of built-out areas.

Lehi City Development Code

locations if it will increase the connectivity within an adjacent property.

4. Cul-de-sac Length – The distance from the
street intersection to the throat of the cul-de-sac
bulb (see Figure 26).

4. A circulation plan will be required for proposed developments with more than one acre in
project size or with more than ten (10) units. The
Planning Director and City Engineer may waive
the requirement for a circulation plan on a caseby-case basis.

1. Promoting walkability through additional
connections and shorter block lengths.
2.

Improving emergency response time.

3.

Increasing effectiveness of delivery access.

4.

Providing better routes to schools and parks.

5. Reducing impacts of development on Master
Planned arterial and collector roads by providing
alternative routes.
6. Preventing isolated developments that increase dependency on automobiles.
B. Definitions.
1. Block Length – The distance along any given road frontage between two intersections with
3 or more connecting links (see Figure 25).
Links that connect into a cul-de-sac shall not be
considered the termination point of a block
length.

D. Connectivity Index Calculation. The required
connectivity index is calculated by dividing the total
number of links by the total number of nodes (see
Figure 27).
Figure 28. Cul-de-sac with a pedestrian connection to allow access to an adjacent open space.

5. Curb Extension – An extension of a curb in
a roadway to narrow the road at pedestrian crossings to provide additional safety for pedestrians
and serves as a traffic calming measure.
6. Links – Streets that connect to nodes or external streets not included in the proposed development.
7. Node – Street intersection or cul-de-sac located within a proposed development. A street
intersection exists where two or more named
roads intersect.

1. The circulation plan must address street
connectivity, pedestrian circulation, emergency
access, and parking movements. In cases where
cut-through traffic is likely, traffic calming
measures such as curb extensions, chicanes,
raised crossings, or other features may be required.
2. The circulation plan shall show the connectivity index, block length dimensions, cul-de-sac
length dimensions, pedestrian facilities, and any
proposed traffic calming features.

Figure 25. Example block length measurements.

2. Chicane – An extension of a curb typically
on a local street to provide an element of traffic
calming.
3.

Connectivity Index – A ratio of roadway

Page 37-12

3. The circulation plan must take into account
access and connectivity on adjacent parcels. On a
case-by-case basis the Planning Director and
City Engineer may require changes to stub road

Lehi City Development Code

Figure 31. Park layout allows access from all sides with home
fronts facing the park.

E. Residential Connectivity Standards. All new
residential subdivisions with ten (10) or more units or
more than one acre shall meet the following connectivity index, block length, and cul-de-sac length
standards for public roads. Private roads shall be reviewed on a case-by-case basis: however, a public
road may be required to prevent a private road in a
subdivision from stubbing into a future or existing
public road.

Figure 26. Example of cul-de-sac length measurement.

C. Circulation Plan. A circulation plan shall be provided as part of a preliminary subdivision plat application.

C. Downtown Spacing Requirements.
1. The existing single-family characteristics of
the central residential neighborhoods of the City
shall be maintained. For the purposes of this
subsection, a central residential neighborhood
shall be defined as any existing residential
neighborhood in an R-2 or R-3 Zone within the
area from State Street to 400 South and from 500
West to 850 East including any dwellings or
properties fronting on said streets. In order to
maintain the existing single family characteristics of said central residential area, any new two
family, three family, four family or multi family
dwelling within the defined area, and where allowed in an R-2 or R-3 Zone, shall not be located within a four hundred (400) foot radius
(measured from building footprint to building
footprint) of the nearest existing two family,
three family, four family or multi-family dwelling except when located in a Planned Unit De-

links and nodes that serves as a metric for measuring the level of connectivity.

Figure 27. Example connectivity index calculation showing nodes
and links. This example shows 23 links and 13 nodes which
equates to a connectivity index of 1.77.

Figure 29. Pedestrian connection to a master planned trail.

1. For the purposes of calculating the number
of total links, one link beyond each node shall be
included in the connectivity index calculation.
Street stubs that provide future access to adjacent
properties or streets that connect to existing
streets are considered links.
2. An additional ½ link shall be included in the
connectivity index calculation for each of the following:
(a) Hard surface pedestrian connection
through a cul-de-sac with a minimum width
of ten (10) feet including an additional two
(2) foot soft shoulder on each side (see Figure 28);
(b) Hard surface master planned trail connection with a minimum width of (10) feet
including an additional two (2) foot soft
shoulder on each side (see Figure 29);
(c) Internal hard surface trail segment connecting two roads with a minimum width of
ten (10) feet including an additional two (2)
foot soft shoulder on each side (see figure
30).

Page 37-13

1. Required Connectivity Index. The minimum
required connectivity index shall be required
based on the project density as identified in the
following table of minimum connectivity index
scores:
Density
0-2.5 DU/AC
2.6-4 DU/AC
4.1+ DU/AC

Figure 30. Trails make pedestrian connections between multiple
streets.

3. An additional ¼ link shall be included in the
connectivity index calculation for each roadway
segment where homes face an amenitized open
space, park, or natural area (see Figure 31). The
roadway segment shall have a minimum three
hundred (300) feet of frontage along the said
open space.

Lehi City Development Code

Minimum Index Score
1.5
1.6
1.75

(a) Reduction in Required Connectivity Index. The required connectivity index may be
reduced if the applicant provides clear and
convincing evidence that it is impossible or
impracticable to achieve due to the following limitations:
i. Topography;
ii. Natural features including lakes,
rivers, designated wetlands;
iii. Existing adjacent development;
iv. Rail corridors;
v. Limited access roadways.
Reductions in the required connectivity index will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis
and must require recommendations from the

Page 37-14

An example of street and development standards that increase connectivity is Lehi City’s recently adopted Connectivity Standards.

• MANAGING STREET CONNECTIVITY refers to tools that complement
and maintain the functionality of connected streets and mitigate any
negative side effects.

Examples of retrofit improvements that increase street connectivity in built-out areas include street crossing
improvements (left) and a pedestrian pass-through (right)

Examples of traffic calming treatments that can help manage street connectivity

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

CONTEXT-BASED GUIDANCE FOR STREET CONNECTIVITY
STREET CONNECTIVITY IS NOT ONE-SIZE-FITS-ALL. For example, the way we connect streets in Downtown Salt Lake City is different than how we connect streets in suburban

communities like Layton, or rural communities like Tooele Valley. Yet street connectivity benefits all communities. So we have developed Street Connectivity Typologies that give custom
guidance for different types of communities.

COMMUNITY-SCALE CONNECTIVITY
Community-scale connectivity is street connectivity within the borders
of a local jurisdiction, most commonly a city. We define three types of
communities:
Urban: An urban community is a city or other
local jurisdiction with:
•
•

•

Higher overall density
A high degree of intersecting
regional transportation
facilities and regional
destinations
A high degree of land use mix

Suburban: A suburban community is a city or
other local jurisdiction with:
•
Medium overall density
•
Fewer regional transportation
facilities and regional
destinations
•
Lower degree of land use mix

NEIGHBORHOOD AND DISTRICT-SCALE CONNECTIVITY

Neighborhood and district-scale connectivity is street connectivity within a
neighborhood or district of common community character. These areas can
range in size – as small as a single subdivision to as large as a several square
mile subsection of a city. We define six types of neighborhoods/districts:

Urban residential neighborhood: An urban
residential neighborhood is a higher-density
residential area with civic, commercial, and
office uses mixed in.

Suburban residential neighborhood: A lowerdensity residential area with other types of
uses typically found on nearby arterial or
collector corridors.

BRIDGE or
UNDERPASS

ARTERIAL
FREEWAY/
INTERCHANGE

Rural: A rural community is a city or other
local jurisdiction with:
• Low density
• Relatively isolated from other
communities
• High degree of agricultural,
mountain land, or other natural
open space within the community

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

COLLECTOR

LOCAL

/

/

Downtown district: A mixed-use center of
activity that attracts people from throughout
the community and sometimes the region.

ARTERIAL

/

TRANSIT
STOP

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING

OPEN SPACE

NEW
DEVELOPMENT

INTERNAL

/

TRANSIT
AGRICULTURAL/
STOP
NATURAL OPEN SPACE

COLLECTOR

/

/

LOCAL

/

RAIL TRACKS

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING

NEW
DEVELOPMENT

300’

INTERNAL

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING

/

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

300’

TRANSIT
AGRICULTURAL/
STOP
NATURAL OPEN SPACE

300’

/

ARTERIAL
FREEWAY/
INTERCHANGE

Campus district: A large land use such as
an educational campus, shopping center,
business park, or entertainment/lifestyle
center.
BRIDGE or
UNDERPASS

/

ARTERIAL

/

LOCAL

/

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

COLLECTOR

/

TRANSIT
STOP

LOCAL

BUILDING
ENTRY

ARTERIAL
FREEWAY/
INTERCHANGE

COLLECTOR

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

FREEWAY/
INTERCHANGE

BRIDGE or
UNDERPASS

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

BRIDGE or
UNDERPASS

Industrial district: An area focused on
production or distribution activities.

/

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

STUB STREET FOR
FUTURE CONNECTION

LOCAL

/

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

ARTERIAL

Rural residential neighborhood: A very low
density residential area with agricultural or
natural space mixed in and few other uses
present.

COLLECTOR

/

/

COLLECTOR

/

TRANSIT
STOP

LOCAL

/

TRANSIT
STOP

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING

OPEN SPACE

NEW
DEVELOPMENT

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING

OPEN SPACE

RAIL TRACKS

300’

300’

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING

OPEN SPACE

NEW
DEVELOPMENT

RAIL TRACKS

300’

CASE STUDIES: OVERVIEW
The Utah Street Connectivity Study includes case studies in three Utah communities - Lehi, Layton, and Tooele County - that involved the evaluation of
street connectivity in areas within each community, recommendations for strategies to improve the connectivity in these areas, and the modeling of
various benefits based on the improvements.
DISCLAIMER: As you look at the case study street network connectivity recommendations, please note that these are only ideas - although some are
based on adopted plans, the new connections shown are not an active proposal by the local jurisdictions or any other stakeholder.

LEHI CASE STUDY AREAS

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

CASE STUDIES: OVERVIEW
The Utah Street Connectivity Study includes case studies in three Utah communities - Lehi, Layton, and Tooele County - that involved the evaluation of
street connectivity in areas within each community, recommendations for strategies to improve the connectivity in these areas, and the modeling of
various benefits based on the improvements.
DISCLAIMER: As you look at the case study street network connectivity recommendations, please note that these are only ideas - although some are
based on adopted plans, the new connections shown are not an active proposal by the local jurisdictions or any other stakeholder.

LAYTON CASE STUDY AREAS

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

CASE STUDIES: OVERVIEW
The Utah Street Connectivity Study includes case studies in three Utah communities - Lehi, Layton, and Tooele County - that involved the evaluation of
street connectivity in areas within each community, recommendations for strategies to improve the connectivity in these areas, and the modeling of
various benefits based on the improvements.
DISCLAIMER: As you look at the case study street network connectivity recommendations, please note that these are only ideas - although some are
based on adopted plans, the new connections shown are not an active proposal by the local jurisdictions or any other stakeholder.

TOOELE COUNTY
CASE STUDY AREAS

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

CASE STUDIES: LEHI
Urban Community case study: Lehi

Lehi is a fast-growing city in Utah County with several developing centers of activity - especially the Thanksgiving Point area. Lehi would currently be likely a suburban community under this guide’s typology, but the community’s potential
growth, its activity hubs, and location could put it in the urban community category. The Wasatch Front’s central transportation corridor, including I-15 and rail lines, splits the city. The east-west corridor of S.R. 92 is a growing transportation
corridor.

IMPROVED CONNECTIVITY RATINGS:
STREET
CONNECTIVITY

LEHI: POTENTIAL
LEHI: EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS

NETWORK
DENSITY

+30% +42%
SR-92

1200 E.

SR-68

BENEFITS:

I-1

5

Our modeling showed that these
improvements could:

Lehi

2300 W.

• Reduce traffic delay

2100 N.

by 24 percent

• Increase the amount of
walking by up to 20 times
• Increase restaurant and
grocery store sales by .8

MAIN ST.

percent

PIONEER

• Add up to $7.4 million of
transportation, health, and
environmental benefits

CROSSIN

G

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
New Link

Existing node - Intersection
New node - Intersection

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

New street crossing
over barrier

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

Destination
0

0.75

1.5

Miles
3

CASE STUDIES: LEHI
Downtown District case study: Downtown Lehi

Downtown Lehi is a classic Utah small town downtown, with a relatively consistent, dense grid of streets and blocks. While the connectivity in this area is better than most other case study areas this guide explores, there is plenty of room for
improvement – and this area has a higher standard to achieve in the downtown context type.

STRATEGIES:

DOWNTOWN
DOWNTOWN
LEHI: POTENTIAL
LEHI: EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS

• Fill out historic grid
• Improve pedestrian crossings across
major streets
• Break up big blocks with
redevelopment

Lehi HS

_
^

Lehi Public Library

_
^

IMPROVED CONNECTIVITY RATINGS:
STREET
CONNECTIVITY

Lehi Downtown

NETWORK
DENSITY

Lehi Downtown

MAIN STREET

+30% +42%

_
^

PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLINESS

CENTER STREET

DESTINATION
ACCESS

Lehi City Pool

/

+0% +19%

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing
pedestrian block (gap between
parallel pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

Destination
0

New node

0.1

0.2

Miles
0.4

CASE STUDIES: LEHI
Campus District case study: Thanksgiving Point

Thanksgiving Point is a fast-growing office park with some cultural and entertainment elements and presents a good opportunity to study a campus-type environment. The area is split by I-15, which creates a barrier for movement within it. It
has the benefit of a UTA FrontRunner rail station but the rail tracks also present another barrier to the west of the area. Thanksgiving Point has few public streets connecting its large properties, creating a low-density network that also poses
a challenge to connectivity.

STRATEGIES:

THANKSGIVING
THANKSGIVING
POINT: POTENTIAL
POINT: EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS

• Add connections over I-15
• Break up large blocks with new
streets
• Improve multi-modal access to
FrontRunner station

Adobe

_
^

SR 92

IMPROVED CONNECTIVITY RATINGS:
STREET
CONNECTIVITY

NETWORK
DENSITY

Thanksgiving Point

+25% +83%

Thanksgiving Point

EXECUTIVE PKWY
Lehi FrontRunner

DESTINATION
ACCESS

_
^

PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLINESS

AS

_
^

VD
BL

/

ON
HT

+56% +23%

Thanksgiving Point Megaplex Theatre

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

Destination
0

New node

0.15

Existing transit
stop/station

0.3

Miles
0.6

CASE STUDIES: LEHI
Suburban Neighborhood case study: Skyridge High School Area

Skyridge is a brand-new high school in the northeastern part of Lehi. Much of the neighborhood around it is also new and still being developed. This case study looks at how a suburban neighborhood can be built to connect to a major
destination such as a school and how such a large land use can avoid being a barrier.

STRATEGIES:

SKYRIDGE
SKYRIDGE
HIGH SCHOOL
HIGH SCHOOL
AREA: POTENTIAL
AREA: EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS

• Create more connections betwen
the neighborhood and high school
• Make strategic cul-de-sac
connections
• Require new infill development to
have high street connectivity and
small block size

SR 92

3200 W

Church

IMPROVED CONNECTIVITY RATINGS:
STREET
CONNECTIVITY

NETWORK
DENSITY

8000 W

_
^

Skyridge High School

Skyridge HS

_
^

Skyridge High School

+44% +32%
DESTINATION
ACCESS

Eaglecrest ES

PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLINESS

_
^

/

+25% +42%
Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

Destination
0

New node

0.1

0.2

Miles
0.4

CASE STUDIES: LEHI
Suburban Neighborhood case study: The Exchange

The Exchange, a planned development on the growing west side of Lehi, presents a unique opportunity for a case study. The Exchange was entitled under Lehi’s new street connectivity standards, which require a minimum street connectivity
index and maximum block length. The development was tested against this guide’s metrics and it scored very well. The Exchange provides a real-world example of how street connectivity standards can produce a much more connected street
network and neighborhood. The Exchange has some cul-de-sacs but they are connected for pedestrians and cyclists; its other dead-end streets are planned to connect to adjacent developments.

THE EXCHANGE:
THE EXCHANGE:
POTENTIAL
EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS
The current connectivity ratings show how,
largely due to Lehi’s new standards for
street connectivity, the Exchange scores
very well on all aspects of connectivity.

Exchange Community Rec.

_
^

EXISTING CONNECTIVITY RATINGS:
STREET
CONNECTIVITY

Exchange Playground

_
^

NETWORK
DENSITY

The Exchange

98% 223%

of the standard

of the standard

DESTINATION
ACCESS

PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLINESS

/

84% 110%

of the standard

The Exchange

Exchange Court

_
^

of the standard

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

Destination
0

New node

0.05

0.1

Miles
0.2

CASE STUDIES: LAYTON
Suburban Community Case Study: Layton

Layton is a suburban city in Davis County. Layton has both established neighborhoods in the eastern, hilly areas against the Wasatch Mountains, and newer neighborhoods in growth areas near the Great Salt Lake shorelands to the west. The
Wasatch Front’s central transportation corridor, that includes I-15 and rail lines, splits the city.

IMPROVED CONNECTIVITY RATINGS:
STREET
CONNECTIVITY

NETWORK
DENSITY

LAYTON:
LAYTON:
POTENTIAL
EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS

+26% +47%
5

I-1
ANTELOPE DR.

US-89

BENEFITS:

_
^
1000 N.

2200 W.

3200 W.

• Reduce traffic delay by 8.5

FAIRFIELD RD.

Layton

Our modeling showed that these
improvements could:

_
^

percent
• Double the amount of

GENTILE ST.

walking
• Increase warehouse club
and supercenter sales by

_
^

1.5 percent

5

I-1

• Add up to $4.2 million of
transportation, health, and
environmental benefits

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
New Link

Existing node - Intersection
New node - Intersection

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination

New Link, exact route undetermined

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

0

0.5

1

Miles
2

CASE STUDIES: LAYTON
Urban Neighborhood case study: Downtown Layton

Layton’s central district includes a mix of uses and popular destinations, such as Main Street, the civic campus, Layton High School, Layton Commons, a FrontRunner station, shopping areas, and residential neighborhoods. Street connectivity
is challenged by I-15 running through the middle of the area, as well as the railroad tracks. The district’s sub-areas also lack connections to one another yet the mix of uses, amenities and destinations here provide the foundation for a
connected urban neighborhood.

STRATEGIES:

Central Davis JHS

_
^
IN
MA

• Require new infill development to have
small block size
• Connect Layton Commons area to
surrounding neighborhood
• Improve I-15 crossings for walking/biking
• Build Kays Creek Trail to connect district

DOWNTOWN
DOWNTOWNLAYTON:
LAYTON:
POTENTIAL
EXISTING CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS

Layton HS

IMPROVED CONNECTIVITY RATINGS:
STREET
CONNECTIVITY

Downtown Area

Downtown Area

GENTILE ST.

NETWORK
DENSITY

+2% +95%
DESTINATION
ACCESS

FORT LN.

.
ST

_
^

Layton FrontRunner

_
^

PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLINESS

/

I-15

+11% +25%

Head

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, US
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination
New node

Existing transit
stop/station

CASE STUDIES: LAYTON
Suburban Neighborhood case study: Angel Street and Layton Parkway

This area of Layton is located in the southwestern part of the city. It was traditionally an agricultural area, but recent growth has infilled residential subdivisions into the historic farm grid. Like in many suburban neighborhoods in Utah, cul-desacs are a common subdivision feature. However, this case study looks at how these popular cul-de-sacs can be limited and managed in the future with only very targeted changes to existing cul-de-sacs that increase active transportation access to destinations.

STRATEGIES:

ANGEL
ST. & PARKWAY:
LAYTON PARKWAY:
EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
ANGEL ST.
& LAYTON
POTENTIAL
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS

• Require new infill development to
have high street connectivity and
small block size
• Create more pedestrian crossings
of Layton Parkway
• Plan a community activity center
in center of neighborhood

L
Church

STREET
CONNECTIVITY

Layton Parkway and Angel St

A
P
N

O
T
AY

_
^

Layton Parkway and Angel St

NETWORK
DENSITY

+121% +56%
DESTINATION
ACCESS

Y
A
W
K
R

Trail Head

_
^
IMPROVED CONNECTIVITY RATINGS:

Arrea
Downtown Area

Heritage ES

_
^

PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLINESS

R
E
V
A
E

.
N
L

W

EL

/

G
AN

+36% +194%

.
ST
Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

Destination
0

New node

0.1

0.2

Potential future commercial center

Miles
0.4

CASE STUDIES: LAYTON
Suburban Neighborhood case study: Kays Creek and Oak Lane

This area is located in the foothills and ravines of the east side of Layton. The topography and the cul-de-sac-heavy street pattern currently restricts movement around the neighborhood; residents in different parts of this small area must
travel in long circuitous paths to reach neighborhood schools and churches on the other side of the steep ravines. However, the potential exists for better pedestrian connections via an improved trail network.

STRATEGIES:

KAYS CREEK
KAYS
& CREEK
OAK LANE:
& OAK
POTENTIAL
LANE: EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS

• Trails to connect across the creeks
and hills for pedestrians and cyclists
• Pedestrian improvements on
Antelope Drive

ANTELOPE DR.

Chuch

_
^

L
K

A
O

IMPROVED CONNECTIVITY RATINGS:
STREET
CONNECTIVITY

.
N

NETWORK
DENSITY

Kayscreek and Oak Lane

Kayscreek and Oak Lane

+9% +2%
DESTINATION
ACCESS

PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLINESS
East Layton Elementary

+0% +51%
/

CHERRY LN.

_
^

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

Destination
0

New node

0.1

0.2

Miles
0.4

CASE STUDIES: LAYTON
Industrial District case study: Layton industrial area

The industrial area in Layton oriented along Hill Field Road contains major distribution centers for companies such as the grocery chain Smith’s. Issues raised in this case study include how well the area is connected for the freight trucks that
must access it from I-15 and circulate within it, as well as the ability of the area to not be a barrier to citywide travelers moving through it.

LAYTON INDUSTRIAL:
POTENTIAL
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS
LAYTON INDUSTRIAL:
EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY

STRATEGIES:
• Create stretgic new streets to break
up biggest block
• Improve Hill Field Road for cyclists
and pedestrians
• Plan future street connections to
the west

1000 N.

5

I-1

HILL FIELD RD.

BMC

_
^
IMPROVED CONNECTIVITY RATINGS:
STREET
CONNECTIVITY

Industrial Park

Industrial Park

NETWORK
DENSITY

+18% +22%

Smith's Distribution Center

_
^

Downtown Area

DESTINATION
ACCESS

Downtown Area

PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLINESS

/

+33% +21%

Chevron

_
^

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

Destination
0

New node

0.125

0.25

Miles
0.5

CASE STUDIES: TOOELE COUNTY
Rural Community Case Study: Tooele County

Tooele Valley is a broad Great Basin valley on the other side of the Oquirrh Mountains from Salt Lake Valley. The area of Tooele Valley being evaluated in this case study contains much of the valley’s population outside the unincorporated
communities of Tooele and Grantsville and covers the area roughly between Tooele City and I-80. These unincorporated communities include Erda, Stansbury Park, and Lake Point. The area is predominantly rural but is growing steadily with
housing development.

IMPROVED CONNECTIVITY RATING:
NETWORK
DENSITY

TOOELE VALLEY: POTENTIAL
EXISTING CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY IMPROVEMENTS

SR

-3
6

+62%
I-80

BENEFITS:
Our modeling showed that these
improvements* could:

• Reduce traffic delay

8
2
-1

SR

by 17 percent
• Double the amount of

walking
• Increase restaurant sales

SR-36

BATES CANYON RD.

by 3.4 percent
• Add up to $2.5 million of
transportation, health, and
environmental benefits

DROBAY RD.

Tooele Valley Community Scale

ERDA WAY

These reflect only the Transportation Plan improvements.

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link

Existing node - Intersection

Transportation Plan Link

Transportation Plan node

Additional link

Additional node

Existing node - Dead end

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

Destination
0

0.75

1.5

Miles
3

CASE STUDIES: TOOELE COUNTY
Rural neighborhood case study: West Erda

West Erda is one of Tooele Valley’s fastest-growing areas. Over the past several years, it has seen new subdivisions that are not always well-connected to the existing rural street network or to one another. Yet an area that is largely not builtout presents a major opportunity to create a well-connected network of new neighborhoods while retaining the agricultural character of the area. This case study looks at the potential future of the West Erda street network in two phases –
the near term adjustment and connections of projects currently in the planning stage; and the long-term build-out of the area.

STRATEGIES:

WEST ERDA: POTENTIAL
WEST ERDA:
CONNECTIVITY
EXISTING CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS (SHORT TERM)

• Require more connections for new
developments
• Require stub streets for new
development
• Plan and build key pedestrian
routes through the neighborhood

Rose Springs Elementary School

_
^

Stansbury High School

_
^

S.R. 36

BATES CANYON DR.

IMPROVED CONNECTIVITY RATINGS:
STREET
CONNECTIVITY

NETWORK
DENSITY

West Erda

West Erda

+94% +23%
DESTINATION
ACCESS

PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLINESS

+6% +14%
/

ERDA WAY

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

Destination
0

New node

0.25

0.5

Miles
1

CASE STUDIES: TOOELE COUNTY
Rural Neighborhood case study: West Erda
West Erda is one of Tooele Valley’s fastest-growing areas. Over the past several years, it has seen new subdivisions that are not always well-connected to the existing rural
street network or to one another. Yet an area that is largely not built-out presents a major opportunity to create a well-connected network of new neighborhoods while
retaining the agricultural character of the area. This case study looks at the potential future of the West Erda street network in two phases – the near term adjustment and
connections of projects currently in the planning stage; and the long-term build-out of the area.

STRATEGIES:

(LONG TERM)
TERM)
WEST ERDA: POTENTIAL
WEST ERDA:
CONNECTIVITY
EXISTING CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS (SHORT
Current
connectivity
profile
• Plan a future connected and dense
The current profile shows how West Erda scores poorly for all the metrics. Strategies should seek to improve all aspects of connectivity – both through near-term key
street
grid
connections and new developments that are better connected and planned to connect to one another.
BATES CANYON DR.
• Connect stub streets to new
development
Average Destination Average Top 5
Link-Node
Ratio
Intersection Density Travel-shed %
Pedestrian Block
• Create smaller blocks
near higher
Raw
score development
1.17
21
46%
3650
intensity
Rose Springs Elementary School

_
^

Stansbury High School

_
^

34%

43%

46%

41%

Proposed Strategies

•

Plans and Policies

IMPROVED
CONNECTIVITY
RATINGS:
•
Implement Tooele County
Transportation Plan network
•

Develop a long-term master transportation network – with key connections and grid
STREET
NETWORK
types
CONNECTIVITY
DENSITY
Street & Development Standards

Cul-de-sac management standards:
o Limit cul-de-sacs to 20% of streets.
o Limit the maximum length of cul-de-sacs to 200 feet.
West Erda
West Erda
•
Requirement for pedestrian circulation plan
•
Stub street requirements for future connections
Retrofit strategies

+269% +139%
•
•
•

S.R. 36

Percentage of
Standard

Minimum connectivity index (link-node) standard: 1.5
Maximum block length of 750 feet
Requirement for multiple accesses to arterial street for developments above a certain
size

DESTINATION
PEDESTRIAN
ACCESS
FRIENDLINESS
Improved
connectivity profile

The proposed strategies would produce a network
that incrementally improves the connectivity to the
point in the long-term scenario where the standards
for both basic metrics are exceeded. The different
types of strategies combine to completely change
the network over a long period of time to one that
emphasizes the best aspects of connectivity.

/

+61% +59%

•

Create pedestrian crossings across major streets
Connect longest cul-de-sacs
Develop active transportation “spine” through the area onto which future active transportation links can connect
Create pedestrian easements/pass-throughs to key connections – that could eventually
become new streets
ERDA WAY

Near Term

Raw score (change)

Link-Node
Ratio
1.33 (93.9%)

Existing Link

Existing node - Intersection

Existing node - Dead end

Potential
new street

Long Term

Intersection
Average Destination
Density
Travel-shed %
Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
26.31 (+22.7%)Community
Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Percentage of
67%
53%
Potential
new
New pedestrian
Potential new
Standard
New street crossing
pedestrian/bike path
crossing
street improvements
over barrier
Raw score (change)
1.64 (+269%)
51.21 (138.9%)
Percentage of
Standard

66 Utah Street Connectivity Guide

•
•
•

127%

102%

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

Destination
0

New node

0.25

0.5

Miles
1

CONNECT YOUR COMMUNITY
3 ways to use this study for your community:

WHAT’S NEXT
• Watch for the Utah Street
Connectivity Guide document early
in 2017.

WHAT:
• Use the four aspects of street
connectivity to assess how
connected your Utah community’s
streets are, and how your projects
improve them.

/

Fund the project

CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES

Fund the project

CONNECTIVITY CREATES

CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES

EMERGENCY SERVICE

Fund the
project
MOBILITY
CONNECTIVITY IMPROVESTRANSPORTATION
CONNECTIVITY
CREATES

WHY:

CHOICE
TRANSPORTATION

MOBILITY

= =

KEEP US POSTED!

CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES

CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES

SAFETY

THE ECONOMY

CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES

CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES

CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES

EMERGENCY SERVICE

SAFETY

THE ECONOMY

CHOICE

• Communicate the mobility,
CONNECTIVITY CREATES
CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES
CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES
CONNECTIVITY IMPROVES
transportation choice,
safety,
health,
EMERGENCY SERVICE
TRANSPORTATION
SAFETY
THE ECONOMY
TheThe
highest
risks of
highest
risks ofCompact, Compact,
connected,
CHOICE
economic,
environmental,
and
connected,
fatal
or
severe
crashes
walkable
neighborhoods
1%
High intersection density
fatal
orin severe
crashes
walkable
neighborhoods
tend
to
occur
areas
with
each 1% increase of connectivity
Adding
300
feet
of
roadway
High intersection
densityfor
price premium
is
the
best
predictor
tendintersection
to occur in areas with
other benefits
ofthestreet
yields
same travelconnectivity
time benefits as
between two subdivisions in
can100
command
a price premium
of 40 to
percent
low
is
the
best
predictor
for
use of active transportation
1 lane mile
Charlotte, N.C.,
of 40 to 100 percent
low
intersection
densities
use
of
active
transportation
1
lane
mile
of
roadway
increased
the
fire
station
to others in your community.
compared to nearby less-connected
service area by 17 percent
densities
each
increase of connectivity
yields the same travel time benefits as

Adding 300 feet of roadway
between two subdivisions in
Charlotte, N.C.,
increased the fire station
service area by 17 percent

of roadway

• Let us know how you use this guide,
how it is helpful, and how it could
be improved.
• Tell us any benefits your community
gains from street connectivity
improvements.

can command a

compared to nearby less-connected
neighborhoods

neighborhoods

High intersection density
is the best predictor for
use of active transportation

HOW:

Adding 300 feet of roadway
between two subdivisions in
Charlotte, N.C.,
increased the fire station
service area by 17 percent

The highest risks of
fatal or severe crashes
tend to occur in areas with

low intersection
densities

• Whether you are working in
an urban, suburban, or rural
community, in a neighborhood or
other district, apply the strategies
we have identified to increasing
connectivity.

BRIDGE or
UNDERPASS

ARTERIAL
FREEWAY/
INTERCHANGE

/

COLLECTOR

/

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

/

• Julie Bjornstad, Wasatch Front
Regional Council, julieb@wfrc.org

compared to nearby less-connected
neighborhoods

LOCAL

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

CONTACT INFORMATION

Compact, connected,
walkable neighborhoods
can command a price premium
of 40 to 100 percent

/

TRANSIT
STOP

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING

OPEN SPACE

NEW
DEVELOPMENT

RAIL TRACKS

ARTERIAL
300’

/

COLLECTOR

/

CIVIC
COMMERCIAL
DESTINATION DESTINATION

LOCAL

/

RECREATIONAL
DESTINATION

/

INTERNAL

TRANSIT
AGRICULTURAL/
STOP
NATURAL OPEN SPACE

PEDESTRIAN

BUILDING

NEW
DEVELOPMENT

300’

U TA H S T R E E T C O N N E C T I V I T Y S T U D Y

APPENDIX

Supplementary maps

Note: These case study maps more closely reflect Layton City’s Master Transportation Plan
that was completed in 2016.
LAYTON:
LAYTON:
POTENTIAL
EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS

5

I-1
ANTELOPE DR.

US-89

2200 W.

3200 W.

Layton

1000 N.

_
^

FAIRFIELD RD.

_
^

GENTILE ST.

_
^

5

I-1
Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination
0

New node

0.5

1

Miles
2

DOWNTOWN
DOWNTOWNLAYTON:
LAYTON:
POTENTIAL
EXISTING CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS

Central Davis JHS

_
^
IN
MA

Layton HS

Downtown Area

FORT LN.

.
ST

_
^

Downtown Area

GENTILE ST.

Layton FrontRunner

_
^

I-15

Head

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, US
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination
New node

Existing transit
stop/station

ANGEL
ST. & PARKWAY:
LAYTON PARKWAY:
EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
ANGEL ST.
& LAYTON
POTENTIAL
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS

Arrea
Downtown Area

AY
KW

AR
NP

TO

LAY
Church

Trail Head

_
^
Layton Parkway and Angel St

_
^

Layton Parkway and Angel St

Heritage ES

_
^
N.

L
ER

V
EA

T.

LS

GE

AN

W

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination
0

New node

0.1

0.2

Potential future commercial center

Miles
0.4

KAYS CREEK
KAYS
& CREEK
OAK LANE:
& OAK
POTENTIAL
LANE: EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS
ANTELOPE DR.

Chuch

_
^

N.

KL
OA

Kayscreek and Oak Lane

Kayscreek and Oak Lane

East Layton Elementary

CHERRY LN.

_
^

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination
0

New node

0.1

0.2

Miles
0.4

LAYTON INDUSTRIAL:
POTENTIAL
CONNECTIVITY
IMPROVEMENTS
LAYTON INDUSTRIAL:
EXISTING
CONNECTIVITY
1000 N.

5

I-1

HILL FIELD RD.

BMC

_
^

Industrial Park

Industrial Park

Smith's Distribution Center

_
^

Downtown Area

Downtown Area

Chevron

_
^

Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AEX, Getmapping, Aerogrid, IGN, IGP, swisstopo, and the GIS User
Community

Existing Link
Potential
new street

Existing node - Intersection
Potential new
pedestrian/bike path

Existing node - Dead end

New pedestrian
crossing

Top 5 largest existing pedestrian
block (gap between parallel
pedestrian routes)

Potential new
street improvements

New street crossing
over barrier

Destination
0

New node

0.125

0.25

Miles
0.5

