Statement on Racial Justice, Equity, and
Access to Opportunities
WFRC mourns the unjust killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery,
and countless other people of color throughout our nation’s history. We acknowledge
society’s deeply rooted racism and inequities. These killings should heighten our
resolve to address the pronounced gaps in justice and opportunity for communities of
color in our nation. We reaffirm the right of all people to peacefully assemble and
petition our government without fear of retribution. We deeply regret those situations
where such public expression has included acts of vandalism and further violence.
WFRC will continue to engage with and listen more intently to communities
marginalized by structural racism. We will strive to involve more diverse voices in our
work, especially committing to elevating the voices of Utah’s racial and ethnic
minorities. And we will continue to provide decision-makers with better information
that promotes social justice and equity, addresses pervasive racism, and assists with
improving economic opportunities for all Utahns.
In 1968 Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. said “To grow from within, [one] needs only fair
opportunity for jobs, education, housing and access to culture." Providing access to
opportunities is core to our work. Yet, for WFRC and member communities in our
region, there is more work to be done to make transportation and communities work
better for our most vulnerable citizens. Getting to education, jobs and services tends
to take more time and a greater percentage of household income for residents with
limited means.
WFRC acknowledges that land use and transportation policies have a long history of
perpetuating racial and economic segregation in America, and we are committed to
identifying solutions for positive change. As the racial and ethnic diversity of Utah
continues to increase, and as Utah and our nation seeks to promote health and
economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, we must commit to promoting
equitable access for all Utahns to opportunities for employment, education, medical
care, and outdoor recreation.
Increasing access to opportunities can have significant impacts on overall community
livability, while breaking down barriers to individual and family upward economic
mobility. Accessibility means people are able to easily, efficiently, and safely reach
jobs, schools, healthcare, parks, places of worship, and grocery stores. Unfortunately,
some communities of color and lower-income communities in the United States and
in Utah have disproportionately less access to opportunities than predominantly white
or higher-income communities; this can have negative implications for employment,
health, and overall well-being. More information about access to opportunities for
lower income and minority communities in our region can be found here.
In the near future WFRC will provide additional information regarding the changing
demographics of our region, and what we can do as individual communities, as a
region, and as a state to make access to opportunities more equitable for all Utahns.

