Activities and
Accomplishments
Report
FISCAL YEAR 2022

FISCAL YEAR 2022

Table of Contents

Planning for the future of our region – for transportation and related areas of land
use, economic development, air quality, and more – is a collaborative effort. As
the designated Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) for Utah’s Wasatch
Front, and as an Association of Governments, the Wasatch Front Regional Council
(WFRC) is responsible for coordinating this planning process, and for providing
funding and assistance to communities in the region so we can turn those plans
into reality.
The WFRC Council adopted goals for the agency for Fiscal Year 2022 (July 1,
2021 - June 30, 2022); this report highlights the activities and accomplishments of
WFRC’s members, staff, and partners in working towards those goals. This report
provides highlights organized by each of the four primary FY22 goals, followed
by a detailed “completion report” for all of WFRC’s activities. Reporting on our
activities and accomplishments associated with these goals is an element of the
accountability that WFRC has as a public agency.
WFRC is proud of the work we’ve done to serve our communities and region, in
close collaboration with our members and partners.

5

Goal Number One

Collaboratively advance the Wasatch Choice Regional Vision as a
framework for integrating transportation, land use, and economic
development, to best address growth-related opportunities and
challenges.

12 Goal Number Two

Effectively administer ongoing plans and programs.

25 Goal Number Three

Provide subject-matter expertise to federal, state, and local officials and
policymakers.

28 Goal Number Four

Strive for organizational excellence.

31 FY2022 Unified Planning Work 			
Program Completion Report

PAGE 2

ACTIVITIES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS REPORT

Fiscal Year
2022 Goals
Fiscal
ear 2020
1. Collaborativelyadvance
advance the
the Wasatch
Regional
1. Collaboratively
WasatchChoice
Choice
Regional
Vision
a regional framework
for integrating
Vision
as as
a framework
for integrating
transportation,
land use,development,
and economic development,
to
landtransportation,
use, and economic
to best address
growth-related
opportunitiesopportunities
and challenges.
best address growth-related
and challenges.
a. Support
locallocal
communities
totoupdate
plansfor
forgrowth
growth
and
a. Support
communities
updatetheir
their plans
and
development.
development.
• •Help
to:(i)(i)
integrate
transportation,
Helpcommunities
communities to:
integrate
theirtheir
local local
transportation,
land
(ii)the
land
housing,
and economic
development
use,use,
housing,
and economic
development
plans; (ii) align with
Wasatch
Regional
Vision;Regional
(iii) satisfy statutory(iii)
requirements;
align
with Choice
the Wasatch
Choice
satisfy
and (iv) manage funding challenges,
all while funding
addressing
community
and (iv) manage
challenges,
statutory
and recovering
and transitioning
from the pandemic.
allconcerns,
while addressing
community
concerns.
Providehigh-quality
high-quality data
analysis,
advice,
and technical
and
• •Provide
dataand
and
analysis,
advice,
and technical
financial
resources.
and financial resources.
Updatethe
the Wasatch
Wasatch Choice
Vision
to reflect
significant
• •Update
ChoiceRegional
Regional
Vision
to reflect
local planning and development decisions.
significant local planning and development decisions.
Engage, inform, and facilitate collaboration among local
• •Engage,
inform,
and facilitate
collaboration
among
governments,
transportation
agencies,
and other
public local
and private
governments,
transportation
agencies,
and
other
public and
sector stakeholders.

MISSION STATEMENT
The Wasatch Front Regional
Council builds consensus and
enhances quality of life by
developing and implementing
visions and plans for a wellfunctioning, multi-modal
transportation system,
livable communities, a strong
economy, and a healthy
environment.
ROLES
To accomplish our mission,
the Wasatch Front Regional
Council serves the following
roles.

Convener
We facilitate collaboration with
our communities and partners.

private sector stakeholders.

b. Communicate the needs and benefits of investment in Utah's multimodal
multib. Communicate
thesystem
needs as
and
benefits
of investment
in
transportation
reflected
in Utah's
Unified Transportation
Plan
modal
transportation
system
as
reflected
in
Unified
2019-2050.

Transportation Plan

2. Develop administer
and implement
plans plans
and programs.
2. Effectively
ongoing
and programs.
a. Refine the performance-based approach for WFRC plans and
a. Refine the performance-based approach for WFRC plans and
programs,
withtoa(i)focus
onand
(i) monitoring
andtowards
sharing
programs,
monitor
share progress
theprogress
adopted
toward
the
adopted
WasatchChoice
goals;
(ii)
streamlining
Wasatch Choice goals; (ii) streamline and further the utilizationand
of
furthering
the utilization
of performance
andas
(iii)
performance
measurement;
(iii) use "access to opportunities"
a
as a measure
planninginclusive
and
measure fortoplanning and programming;
and for
(iv) promote
engagement in transportation planning processes and equitable access
programming.
to affordable and reliable transportation options.

Regional Transportation
b. Continue development of the
b. Continue
refinementenhanced
of the Wasatch
Choice Regional
Vision and
Plan
(RTP), including
consideration
of (i) planning/
development of the 2023-2050
Regional Transportation Plan (RTP),
environmental
(ii) multi-modal
(iii)
including enhanced consideration of (i) planning/environmental
policy
approaches
to
complement
planned
(iv)
linkages; (ii) multi-modal project prioritization; (iii) policy approaches to
innovative
funding
and financing
andfunding
(v) external
forces
complement
planned
investments; (iv) innovative
and financing
including
technological
innovations
(e.g.policies
connected,
autonomous,
strategies;
and (v) external
forces and
based on
pandemic
recovery,
automation,
shared
mobility, and e-living parameters.
shared,
and electric
mobility
options).

Technical Expert
We are trusted subject-matter
experts.

Planner
We proactively plan for the
future of our region.

Implementer
We put visions and plans into
action.

c. Develop the 2023-2028
Transportation Improvement
Improvement Program
(TIP),
Transportation
Program
c. Develop
compiling
prioritized
road,road,
transit,transit,
and active
projects
(TIP),
compiling
prioritized
andtransportation
active transportation
(adopt
summer
2022). 2021).
projects
(adopt
summer
d. Provide
funding
technicalsupport
supportto
to communities
communities through
WFRC
d. Provide
funding
andand
technical
through
programs
including:
Surface
Transportation
Program
(STP),
Congestion
WFRC
programs including: Surface Transportation Program (STP),
Mitigation and Air Quality Program (CMAQ), Transportation Alternatives
Congestion
and Air Development
Quality Program
ProgramMitigation
(TAP), Community
Block(CMAQ),
Grant (CDBG), and
Transportation
Alternatives
Program
(TAP),
Community
Transportation
and Land Use
Connection
Program
(TLC) (project
Development
recommendations spring 2022). and Transportation and Land Use
Connection Program (TLC) (project approvals spring 2021).
e.

Implement the regional 2018-2023 Comprehensive Economic

Development
Strategy (CEDS), linking
economic development
Comprehensive
Economicwith
e. Implement
the regional
transportation
and land
use planning,
through
the Wasatch
Development
Strategy
(CEDS),
linking working
economic
development
with
Front
Economic
Development
District
(WFEDD).
transportation and land use planning, working through the Wasatch
Front Economic Development District (WFEDD).

PAGE 3

FISCAL YEAR 2022

nd

ng

Wasatch Choice
2050 Regional Goals

Access to economic and
educational opportunities

nd

on

3. Provide subject-matter expertise to federal, state,
and local officials and policymakers.
a.

Work with national associations and Utah partners to advance
reauthorization of federal transportation funding and policies, focusing
on multi-modal funding stability with continued strong local and regional
voice.

b. Evaluate infrastructure funding and financing strategies at the state,
regional, and local level.
c.

Manageable and reliable traffic conditions

Enhance forecasting and modeling of travel behavior and land use
markets, including: (i) preparing for the 2022 Household Travel Survey;
and (ii) improving modeling of transportation mode choices and impact
of urban form on travel behavior.

d. Collaborate with UDOT and other stakeholders to refine transportation
project prioritization processes.

nt
Quality transportation choices

ant
ure

e.

Participate in regionally significant transportation and growth-related
projects and activities including but not limited to: major development
plans (Point of the Mountain, Northwest Quadrant/ Inland Port, and
Falcon Hill); regionally significant transit/ land use analyses (FrontRunner
Forward, Future of LRT, Davis-Salt Lake Connector, Point of the
Mountain Transit, Midvalley Connector, Local Link, and Mobility Hubs);
multi-city active transportation plans; a variety of corridor studies linking
roadways and land use, housing development and affordability; Central
Wasatch Commission mountain transportation; I-15 statewide analysis;
and Census 2020.

f.

Improve air quality by assisting communities and partners in their efforts
to reduce emissions through technological changes, transportation
choices, and development patterns.

Livable and healthy communities

sis,

Safe, user-friendly streets

Clean air

cy

h,
gful,

Housing choices and
affordable living expenses

Fiscally responsible communities
and infrastructure

Ample parks, open spaces,
and recreational opportunities

Sustainable environment, including water,
agricultural, and other natural resources

PAGE 4

4. Strive for organizational excellence.
a.

Ensure accountability and transparency to WFRC members in policy
making and prudent, efficient use of resources. Maintain budget
stability.

b. Create and maintain a work environment that maximizes the health,
happiness, and productivity of an excellent staff. Provide meaningful,
constructive feedback to employees through performance evaluations.
Encourage priority professional development opportunities.
c.

Ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and best practices.

d. Adapt to a post-pandemic “new normal” in a way that strikes an
appropriate balance between telecommuting for convenience in office
work and gatherings, while maintaining the human connection from
physical proximity.

ACTIVITIES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS REPORT

Goal Number One
Collaboratively advance the Wasatch Choice Regional
Vision as a framework for integrating transportation,
land use, and economic development, to best address
growth-related opportunities and challenges.
WFRC supported local communities to update their plans for growth
and development.
The WFRC area is a diverse mix of communities, from the metropolitan
center of Salt Lake City, to suburban cities and towns, to areas that maintain
a rural character. There is no one-size-fits-all approach to handling Utah’s
nation-leading population growth. Certain issues are truly regional in nature,
such as our economy, mobility, and air quality. The Wasatch Choice Vision
is our shared regional vision. But each part of the region has to develop
approaches that best suit their needs and desires. Therefore, WFRC worked
directly with communities all over the region. This included the following
activities:
•

WFRC, Mountainland Association of Governments (MAG), Utah Transit
Authority (UTA) and the Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity
(GOEO), in collaboration with the Utah League of Cities and Towns
(ULCT) partnered to further assist communities in their efforts to plan for
transit supportive communities in Wasatch Choice centers. New station
area planning requirements in House Bill 462 passed in 2022 to address
Utah’s housing needs. WFRC was able to negotiate a framework where
local governments maintained their control over their local land use,
while advancing shared goals. In general, the law requires a city that has
a fixed-guideway public transit station (rail or BRT) to develop a Station
Area Plan for that station and update its general plan and zoning to
implement the Station Area Plan.
Further, we were able to secure $5 million in funding through GOEO
to WFRC and MAG to provide communities with technical assistance to
develop and adopt their station area plans.
Station area plans support and are consistent with the goals of the
Wasatch Choice Vision, in particular enhancing our choices for quality
transportation, affordable housing, access to economic opportunities,
and more. They elevate the importance of transit oriented communities
to addressing tomorrow’s growth while preserving today’s quality of life.

•

WFRC and the ULCT have been utilizing a generous grant from
Intermountain Healthcare (IHC) and Zions Bank, to further
support local governments in their efforts to create “Livable and Healthy
Communities” (the first goal of the Wasatch Choice Vision). This gift from
IHC further supports the partnership efforts of the Transportation and
Land Use Connection (TLC) Program.

1
PAGE 5

FISCAL YEAR 2022

•

Hosted 10 Wasatch Choice Workshops in Fall 2021. These workshops brought local leaders and staff from nearby
communities in each part of the region together to discuss their common challenges that need to be addressed in
order to effectively implement the shared Wasatch Choice Regional Vision. The workshops focused on refining the draft
system of projects being developed for the Regional Transportation Plan (RTP), the transportation element of Wasatch
Choice. These annual workshops will be held again in the Fall of 2022.

•

Worked with community organizations, business organizations, and transportation agencies to further regional
collaboration around the Vision. The Wasatch Choice interactive map was updated with additional information
including a new Station Area Planning map. The large format Wasatch Choice Vision wall map was updated and copies
were provided to many key partners (more copies are available for our communities!).

Wasatch Choice Centers Refinement
The Wasatch Choice Vision has been the shared regional vision for the Wasatch Front for over a decade. Built on community
values through an extensive public input process, Wasatch Choice establishes a blueprint for growth that supports a wellfunctioning economy, improves air quality, and enhances the overall quality of life for Utahns living across the Wasatch Front.
Local communities provided initial input and direction on Wasatch Choice centers, including location, type, and anticipated
time frame for development during the process of developing this Wasatch Choice Regional Vision and 2019-2050 Regional
Transportation Plan.
Working with the cities, counties, the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT), and the Utah Transit Authority (UTA), WFRC
performed a region-wide refinement to the Wasatch Choice Centers boundaries, to best align with the areas where existing
conditions, foreseen land use opportunities, and local government support are most conducive to center development.
WFRC staff gathered and used general plans, small area / station area plans, visioning studies, aerial imagery, and Google
Street View imagery, in the initial review and refinement of center boundaries. The refined boundaries were then sent out to
cities, counties, and other stakeholders (Military Installation Development Authority, University of Utah, etc.) for their review.
Follow-up calls and meetings were held to collect and incorporate feedback from each party prior to finalization.

Wasatch Choice Center Boundary Comparison, Southwest Salt Lake County
Left: 2019 Center Boundaries, Right: 2021 Center Boundaries

PAGE 6

ACTIVITIES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS REPORT

WFRC supported community-level planning with technical and financial resources.
•

The Wasatch Front Economic Development District (WFEDD) provides a direct link for our local governments to apply for
federal Economic Development Administration funding to create jobs and support economic development efforts.
The WFEDD successfully assisted seven communities along the Wasatch Front with strategic planning, economic
development market studies, business training and development, and digital equity studies through funding of EDA (U.S
Economic Development Administration) CARES grants. In addition, the WFEDD completed its own economic resilience
study along with an annual update to the 5-year Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy. The WFEDD has
been participating with the Governor's Office of Planning and Budget and the other Associations of Governments to
bring together a statewide economic development plan.

•

The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) provides funding to local communities to address the needs of low
and moderate income populations and supports social service providers within Morgan, Tooele, and Weber Counties.
In the last year, CDBG has funded six projects ranging from a community center and first time home buyer assistance,
to water/meter infrastructure improvements and fire equipment. These six projects, totaling just over $1,000,000, will help
to provide a gathering place in a low income community for people to recreate, reduce water waste by more accurately
metering water and replacing aging infrastructure, and provide safety equipment in a low income community.

•

As noted above, consistent with legislation and funding coming out of the legislative session in 2022, WFRC is working
with partners UTA, GOEO, and MAG to provide technical assistance to communities responsible for creating and
adopting Station Area Plans for station areas within their boundaries.

•

The Transportation and Land Use Connection (TLC) program provides planning technical assistance to local communities
to achieve their goals and plan for their futures. TLC provides a critical link between the broader Wasatch Choice Regional
Vision and the detailed opportunities and challenges at the local level. TLC is a partnership between WFRC, Salt Lake
County, UDOT, and UTA. Here is a breakdown of over 120 projects in over 60 communities in our region:

PAGE 7

FISCAL YEAR 2022

Examples of TLC Project Outcomes, 2014-2022
Town Center Market Study

Community
Spotlight

With technical assistance from the TLC Program, North Salt Lake has planned extensively for its
city center. All four of North Salt Lake’s independent TLC awards address key components of
the city center. The Town Center Plan (2014) established the City’s vision for a vibrant, walkable
central hub. Subsequent efforts, such as the Town Center Form-based Code (2017) and Town
Center Branding and Wayfinding (2019), identified specific strategies related to ordinances,
communication, and design to implement the vision for the center. Newly awarded this year,
the Town Center Market Study (2022) will build on these efforts. The Market Study will help
ensure that rapid development will accommodate market-supportive businesses that fit the
City’s vision. It also aims to identify data-driven recommendations regarding the allocation
of redevelopment area funds for incentives and/or infrastructure. Ultimately, North Salt Lake
wants all projects related to the center to support it as a true destination and gathering place
for residents.
North Salt Lake, collaborating with Bountiful and Centerville for multijurisdictional technical assistance, has also utilized the TLC Program to plan
for active transportation. The South Davis Active Transportation Plan (2018)
established goals to connect neighborhoods and destinations, including
centers, through safe walking and bicycling facilities.

North Salt Lake implements its plans for its city center through this multi-use
building oriented to the street and paired with pedestrian-friendly infrastructure.

General Plan Update

Community
Spotlight

The City of Bluffdale's current General Plan was adopted in 2014. Since then, the city
has gained approximately 12,000 new residents who had not yet participated in the city’s
comprehensive land use planning efforts. The updated General Plan, awarded through TLC in
2020, comprehensively addresses modifications to the land use and transportation elements,
examines its infrastructure’s ability to serve the community currently and into the future, and
enacts a new moderate-income housing element. The City explored areas in which higherintensity centers could be located and investigated transit-supportive land uses, including
potential high-density transit-oriented developments. Bluffdale recently adopted the General
Plan on June 8, 2022.

Bluffdale’s recently adopted General Plan utilized community engagement efforts to
produce a plan that balances preservation of the city’s agricultural and open spaces
with support for housing and transportation options for a rapidly growing city.

PAGE 8

ACTIVITIES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS REPORT

Transit Corridor and Land Use Study

Community
Spotlight

Herriman has utilized the TLC Program to pursue two independent projects, an Active
Transportation Plan (ATP) and a Transit Corridor and Land Use Study. Because Herriman
faced unprecedented growth, going from 21,785 to 55,144 people in just 10 years, planning for
alternative transportation like biking, walking, and public transit became increasingly important
for quality of life considerations. By developing an ATP, Herriman aimed to guide future active
transportation investments, preserve the City’s core character while encouraging economic
growth, enhance recreational opportunities, improve healthy living, improve air quality, and
reduce congestion. The Transit Corridor and Land Use Study, awarded this most recent
funding cycle, will investigate the ideal transportation modes for, and future land use options
around, a corridor important for internal and external connectivity.
Additionally, Salt Lake County’s newly awarded project, Southwest
Waterways Visioning (with an award value of $150,000), will produce a
visioning plan for creek drainages and corridors in southwestern areas
of Salt Lake County, including Herriman. The effort will look holistically at
waterways from the Oquirrh and Wasatch foothills to the Jordan River and
develop unique solutions across city boundaries. This vision will identify
opportunities for active transportation, wildlife habitat, water quality,
stormwater, green infrastructure, economic development, and land use.
.

Herriman’s Active Transportation Plan has led to the implementation of wide pedestrian and cyclist
paths, such as those shown above near multi-family housing developments.

300 W Corridor Plan and Zoning Amendments

Community
Spotlight

This plan helps implement a previous TLC project, the Ballpark Station Area Plan, as well as
coordinates with infrastructure improvements that Salt Lake City has made in the area. For the
Ballpark Station Area Plan, Salt Lake City (Redevelopment Agency and Transportation Division),
the Utah Transit Authority, and the Bees Baseball team sought to improve the pedestrian/
bicyclist/user experience in the Ballpark neighborhood as well as improve connections to allow
better access to the Ballpark and other area and neighborhood destinations. The proposed
300 W Corridor Plan and Zoning Amendments project will create a land use plan for the 300
West corridor and develop supportive zoning regulations to align future development with the
redesigned and under-construction 300 West street between approximately 900 South and
2100 South. The corridor land use plan will identify uses that support the conversion of 300 West
from an auto-oriented, high speed street to a livable street that provides grade separated bike
paths, wider sidewalks, and other pedestrian improvements. Draft zoning regulations for the 300
West Transitional Area will also support the implementation of the Ballpark Station Area Plan.

The 300 W Corridor Plan and Zoning Amendments will rethink land uses along the
corridor to support the transportation outcomes, such as those shown above.
PAGE 9

FISCAL YEAR 2022

Helped communities recovering and transitioning from the pandemic.
The WFEDD, in partnership with the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA), solicited applications from the
WFRC/WFEDD region for EDA CARES Act Recovery Assistance Grants to assist cities, counties, and metropolitan service
districts economically impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. $400,000 was directed toward cities and counties to
assist them with economic recovery through strategic planning, economic development studies, broadband equity, and
business education and training related to the pandemic recovery.

Example of WFEDD Project:
Tooele City l EDA CARES Local Business Training

Community
Spotlight

Tooele City received a $50,000 EDA CARES grant through the WFEDD to assist the local
community with education and training in bookkeeping and business strategies and marketing.
Tooele City staff coordinated efforts associated with this grant with Tooele Technical College
as well as a local bookkeeping business, to offer trainings to business owners. There were
three bookkeeping classes, a marketing class, a three-part Amazon e-commerce class, a
digital advertising class, digital training resources for the Tooele Downtown Alliance, and a
four-part series on digital business strategies and marketing. Each course was selected to help
businesses transition into a digital economy and recover from the adverse effects of COVID-19.
Across all trainings offered, 116 business owners were served. The final training series was
recorded and provided online, further extending benefits to businesses in the community into
the future.

Scenes from trainings conducted to provide Tooele City business owners
business management courses

Example of CDBG Project:
Morgan City l Weber-Morgan Health Department Renovation

Community
Spotlight

The Weber-Morgan Health Department received a $462,300 CDBG Coronavirus CARES grant to
renovate the basement of the Morgan City building to provide county health services to residents
in Morgan County. The new facility will officially open in September 2022. Services offered will
include food handling classes, services for women, children, and infants, immunizations, and
more. Prior to Weber-Morgan Heath Department opening this new office, the only physical office
location for residents to receive health services was located in Weber County.

Exterior of the Morgan City Building, home of the new Weber-Morgan Health
Department office in Morgan City.
PAGE 10

ACTIVITIES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS REPORT

WFRC supported the housing affordability work of local communities as they update their moderate income
housing plans and align their general plans with regional/statewide transportation plans and population/
employment projections, per SB34 (passed in 2019) and HB462 (passed in 2022).
•

WFRC worked with our members and partners including local governments and state legislators, ULCT, Utah
Association of Counties (UAC), Utah Chapter of the American Planning Association, Salt Lake Chamber and other
chambers of commerce, and the Department of Workforce Services to support statewide housing affordability
efforts. WFRC was a key collaborator on HB462, updating requirements for city moderate income housing planning.
We continue to support our communities in doing this work.

•

WFRC created and provided locally and regionally relevant information resources to member communities and
partners in support of integrated approaches to land use and transportation decision making, in alignment with the
intent of SB34. As part of the Fall 2021 Wasatch Choice working groups, the Analytics team led an update to the
state GIS office’s planning data resources webpage, bringing together into one list over 50 datasets stewarded by a
wide spectrum of agencies. In addition, WFRC continued to host and update the Data Resources for Coordinating
Housing & Transportation interactive map that provides preview and download of:
o statewide population and employment projections data,
o statewide mapping of “major transit investment corridors” and transit stations to assist in the development of transitoriented development,
o projects in the current 2019-2050 Regional Transportation Plan,
o an Access to Opportunities (ATO) dataset that characterizes the landscape of access to the workplace by
automobile and transit.

•

As part of a TLC project with Weber County, WFRC created an interactive map that highlights the Access to
Opportunities landscape specifically in relation to housing. The map allows users to select and prioritize a variety of
factors, such as transit stations, childcare facilities, and job opportunities. Locations are analyzed based on how well
they fit the criteria inputted by the user. The map then updates to display the most and least suitable places to locate
housing based upon the selected criteria. For example, if a user selects light rail stations and schools as prioritized
factors, then areas near both would score the highest, and areas without access to either would score the lowest. The
map can be a tool for communities when planning for residential redevelopment, new development, and future land
uses. The map will be expanded to provide similar information region-wide in FY23.

Housing Suitability Map focused on Weber County.
Levels of housing suitability depicted in various shades.

PAGE 11

FISCAL YEAR 2022

Goal Number Two
Effectively administer ongoing plans and programs.
Communicated the need and benefits of investment in Utah’s multimodal
transportation system as reflected in the 2019-2050 Utah’s Unified
Transportation Plan.
•

Utah’s Unified Transportation Plan is a collaborative effort between
transportation agencies across the state of Utah including UDOT, WFRC,
MAG, Dixie MPO, Cache MPO, and UTA.

•

Utah’s Unified Transportation Plan partners worked together to develop
common goals, planning time horizons, performance measures, and financial
assumptions so that their plans are consistent across the state while meeting
local needs. UDOT, UTA, and the MPOs collaborate together to develop the
statewide Unified Transportation Plan, while recognizing the distinct needs of
different areas of the state.

•

Utah is among the fastest growing states in the country. The way we
grow and plan for the state’s future will determine the quality of life residents
experience. Utah’s transportation agencies and local communities work
together to ensure an excellent quality of life that includes good air quality, a
vibrant economy, and affordable transportation choices for all Utahns.

•

The updated version of the 2023-2050 Utah’s Unified Transportation Plan
is on track for completion in mid-2023. This reflects the ongoing collaboration
among Utah’s transportation agencies. Utah's Unified Transportation Plan is
built around four themes focusing on: a sound planning process, preservation
of high quality of life, transportation choices for all residents, and the flexibility
of our transportation system in the face of uncertainty.

PAGE 12

2

ACTIVITIES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS REPORT

Benefits of Utah's Unified Transportation Plan
Implementing Utah’s Unified Transportation Plan will have the following benefits:

OVER THE NEXT 30 YEARS
Reduction

248.2
BILLION

212,000

An additional $248.2B in
GDP growth

Add 212,000 jobs to Utah

Reduce fatal and serious injuries
on the transportation network

Increase job access by roadway and
transit in the metropolitan areas

Keep the infrastructure in
good condition

Reduce mobile emissions by 54%

2,100

4.7

$

123%

increase in

fewer days

miles

Add 2,100 miles of active
transportation facilities

Reduce the average households drive
time by 4.7 days

Increase transit ridership by 123%

Source: unifiedplan.org

Economic Impact Created by Unified Plan Investment

$248.2 Billion

212,000
Spending Impact

$93,800,000,000

52,000
28,000

$26,900,000,000
$43,500,000,000
$84,000,000,000

GDP

Business Attraction
Market Access
Transportation
Efficiency

45,000

87,000

Jobs
PAGE 13

FISCAL YEAR 2022

Increased Job Access with the Unified Plan Investment (by Planning Jurisdiction)

Number of Jobs

250,000
200,000
150,000
100,000
50,000
0

Cache MPO
2019 Roadway (20 min)

Dixie MPO

MAG

WFRC

2019 Transit (40 min)

2050 Roadway with
Unified Plan (20 min)

2050 Transit with
Unified Plan (40 min)

Hours Spent Driving per
Household per Year

Driving Time Saved by Implementing the Unified Plan
500

4.7 Fewer Days
Spent Driving
per Household

400

300

200

2019

2024

2030

No New Capacity Projects After 2019

2040

2050

Unified Plan Implemented

Reduced Costs by Keeping Infrastructure in a State of Good Repair.

STATE OF
GOOD REPAIR
By keeping infrastructure in good condition and through
consistent maintenance, we can save investment dollars
in the future.

SAVES
UP TO
Invested in
Preservation Now

In Reconstruction
in the Future

Refined the performance-based approach for WFRC plans and programs, to (i) monitor and share progress
towards the adopted Wasatch Choice goals; (ii) streamline and further the utilization of performance
measurement; (iii) use "access to opportunities" as a measure for planning and programming; and (iv) promote
inclusive engagement in transportation planning processes and equitable access to affordable and reliable
transportation options.
•

WFRC is continuing its monitoring the progress of the Wasatch Choice Regional Vision and its implementation by
expanding the State of Centers report to include station area performance measures, focusing on housing, access to
opportunities, economic development, and transportation elements.

•

Through the development of the 2023-2050 RTP, WFRC refined our performance-based planning by reassessing
“needed” projects to better align with our Congestion Management Process, consider health, and strengthen alignment
with our equity-related work. We continue to work with UDOT and UTA on developing, measuring, and meeting Federal
performance targets.

PAGE 14

ACTIVITIES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS REPORT

•

In 2022, WFRC advanced its use of Access to Opportunities metrics through the completion of two efforts. The
first of these is the region-wide Workplace Accessibility interactive map that provides quick insight into our region’s
workplace accessibility landscape for both auto and transit travel modes. The second ATO-related effort completed
in FY22 was the ATO Project Impact Tool which uses GIS software to create a simple workplace accessibility change
metric for individual small and medium scale transportation projects, and land use intensification changes. These tools
allow WFRC to measure and utilize access to opportunities as a decision-making element across a broader range of
planning contexts, such as RTP project prioritization. WFRC staff have presented them nationally and will be on the
agenda at this year’s AMPO conference.

Access to Opportunities Map focused on Davis County, with transit access to jobs
within a typical commute time depicted.

•

Additionally in 2022, WFRC launched new in-depth resources to assess inclusion and opportunity for all within our
work. WFRC committed to incorporating these principles in four areas: access to opportunities, community outreach,
decision-making in our plans and policies, and within our agency. A new tool to help us succeed is a map that identifies
Equity Focus Areas - census blocks where low-income or persons of color households are concentrated. Working
with our Wasatch Choice Partners, WFRC began forming a Wasatch Choice Community Advisory Committee to
enhance engagement with these communities, apply an inclusionary lens to the Wasatch Choice Regional Vision, and
advise the partner agencies on transportation and land use decisions.

PAGE 15

FISCAL YEAR 2022

Continued refinement of the Wasatch Choice Regional Vision and development of the 2023-2050 RTP, including
enhanced consideration of (i) planning/environmental linkages; (ii) multi-modal project prioritization; (iii) policy
approaches to complement planned investments; (iv) innovative funding and financing strategies; and (v) external
forces and policies based on pandemic recovery, automation, shared mobility, and e-living parameters.
•

Key process goals for the Wasatch Choice Regional Vision and 2023-2050 RTP update:
o Engage communities, partner agencies, stakeholders, and the public in the planning process.
o Provide resources to help local communities implement the Wasatch Choice Regional Vision.
o Explore policies, including changes in investment frameworks.
o Coordinate regional transportation with local land use considerations and plans.
o Utilize a performance-based approach to planning, including using performance measures to inform interim
decisions.

•

Enhanced consideration of:
o Multi-modal project prioritization.
o Use of “access to opportunities” as a measure for planning and programming.

•

Enhanced coordination of external forces and policies:
o The future is uncertain, and maybe even more so now than ever before, on the heels of a worldwide pandemic
that has changed living and working, and technological advancements are taking place at an unprecedented rate.
o WFRC has taken on reviewing external forces and policies, coordinating with stakeholders and partners, and
is a leading agency in implementing these in the upcoming 2023-2050 RTP. External forces and future-thinking
transportation policies – transportation technologies, shifts in market and consumer demand, and emerging
policies – that may impact transportation, land use, and economic development decisions. This approach elevated
the discussion of these planning uncertainties within the Region and what future impacts might be regionally and
locally.
o WFRC compiled a list of over 20 topic areas of external forces and policies. Utilizing peer groups consisting of staff
from local governments, transportation partners, agencies, and businesses whose work is directly tied to, or may
be heavily influenced by, the identified forces, WFRC identified influences and policies, developed consensus on
which external forces were important to address, approximated the range of impacts from these forces, determined
whether these influences and policies should be tested through simulated scenarios, and tested multiple future
scenarios. Scenarios gauge the long-term effectiveness of the policies and prospective transportation projects by
simulating how well they perform in the context of these external forces.

For more information on external forces and policies click here.
PAGE 16

ACTIVITIES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS REPORT

Enhanced forecasting and modeling of travel behavior and land use markets, and development of maps and tools
to display and analyze data.
One of the key roles played by WFRC is to provide data and sophisticated modeling to aid in decision-making. Key
activities in FY22 included:
•

Enhancement work on the current version 8.3.2 (February 2022 release) and forthcoming version 9.0 (beta expected
Fall of 2022) of the travel demand model, which aim to further enhance the rigor with which transit, new transportation
modes, urban form and land use, and external forces (telecommuting, e-retail, connected and autonomous vehicles,
and intersection prioritization for transit) are incorporated into the model’s projection of future travel patterns. Version 9.0
work in FY22 included a major update of the traffic analysis zone (TAZ) geographic areas and updates to the future road
and transit networks. WFRC is the host agency for Interagency Modeling Director (funded jointly by MAG, UDOT, UTA,
WFRC), who leads this model development effort as well as modeling coordination between transportation agencies
across the state.

•

Development of a preliminary regional housing and jobs forecast using the WFRC/MAG Real Estate Market Model
(REMM) including a complete update of the REMM’s base year to 2019. Related work included: releasing the
WFRC Housing Inventory Explorer, a web map with a detailed inventory of existing regional housing stock, housing
characteristics, and both recent and long term trends; compiling, standardizing, and analyzing allowable development
types and intensities in current city and county general plan and in Wasatch Choice Regional Vision centers; and
processing the initial 2020 Census data release into user-friendly formats. The WFRC Analytics group provided and
facilitated feedback to the University of Utah Gardner Policy Institute’s work to update county-level population and
employment forecasts.

•

Providing land use and transportation modeling and mapping support to regional and local transportation plans and
studies performed internally and by partner agencies and consultants. As part of this work a technical memorandum,
with updated employment information for the Hill Air Force Base area was released to the travel modeling community.

•

Developed a new web map-based viewer for the TAZ and city-level household and job forecasts, including graphing and
commenting features.

•

Updated traffic volume, congestion, and workplace accessibility projections and interactive maps. Analyzed and
published anonymized, multimodal GPS/mobile device trip movement data licensed, together with transportation agency
partners, from Streetlight.

•

Completing an initial test of the new Wasatch Front Bike Model’s ability to model the impact of additional bike
infrastructure on bicycle ridership and trip patterns.

•

Continued to participate in a partnership with UDOT, UTA, and Utah’s three other MPOs to fund and implement a
statewide Household Travel Survey in spring of 2023. RSG Inc. was hired through a competitive bid to lead stakeholder
engagement, survey design, and survey implementation.

PAGE 17

FISCAL YEAR 2022

Map of the Month
The WFRC analytics team continued its Map of the Month series, highlighting more detailed regional information on
diverse set of map-based topics, including: the in-progress RTP and TIP plans, regional housing inventory and trends,
HB462 Station Area Plan requirements, Wasatch Choice centers, workplace ATO, and bike travel and safety, and
updates to the Wasatch Choice interactive map. These and other map products were added to the WFRC Map Gallery.

A Selection of FY22 Maps

Wasatch Front
Housing Inventory
(Jan 22)

Transportation Land
Use Connection
Projects (Aug 21)

Station Area Planning
(March 22)

Wasatch Front Bike
Trip Generation
(April 22)
How Safe Do We Feel
While Cycling?
(May 22)

Workplace
Accessibility Web
Map (July 21)

Participated in key transportation and growth-related projects and activities.
•

Projects and studies, such as the I-15 Farmington to Salt Lake EIS, that seek to plan for areas and specific corridors are
a critical way that the RTP is first implemented. These studies endeavor to coordinate transportation decisions with land
use planning to maximize attainment of Wasatch Choice regional goals. In addition to the I-15 EIS, WFRC participated in
a variety of roadway projects and studies including the Bangerter Highway Interchanges Environmental Studies, the SR111 Environmental Study, and a variety of regional corridor studies.

•

WFRC has facilitated, or participated with partners on a variety of projects and studies that range from major
development plans (Point of the Mountain, Southwest Salt Lake County Vision, Northwest Quadrant/ Inland Port, Falcon
Hill), regionally significant transit/land use analyses (FrontRunner Forward, Future of Light Rail, Ogden-Weber State
University BRT (OGX), Davis-Salt Lake Connector, Midvalley Connector), multi-city active transportation plans, housing
development and affordability, Central Wasatch Commission mountain transportation, regional parking analysis and
other regional and local efforts. WFRC supports these efforts in a broad variety of ways. These include modeling and
analytical support, convening stakeholders and decision-makers, and providing subject matter expertise.

PAGE 18

ACTIVITIES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS
FISCAL YEAR
REPORT
2022

Improve air quality by assisting communities and partners in their efforts to reduce mobile source emissions
through technological changes, transportation choices, and development patterns.
•

Utilizing approved technical criteria and information gathered during on-site field reviews, WFRC evaluated more than 15
projects for funding consideration through the Congestion Mitigation Air Quality (CMAQ) Program, which funds
transportation-related air quality improvements. In consultation with the Trans Com Technical Advisory Committees,
several of these projects were recommended for funding, including bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure, round-abouts,
and transit improvements. Upon review and recommendation from Trans Com, the Regional Council approved these
projects for funding.

•

Through improved vehicle emission standards, transportation investments, such as transit and biking as detailed in
Utah’s Unified Transportation Plan, and planned local land use, mobile source emissions will be dramatically reduced:

Projected Vehicle Emissions Reduced

PAGE 19

FISCAL YEAR 2022

2019-2050 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) Amendments
WFRC develops the Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) for the Salt Lake City-West Valley City and Ogden-Layton Urbanized
Areas. The RTP is a fiscally constrained plan for roadway, transit, and other transportation facility improvements over the next
20-30 years. Designed to meet the travel demand of a growing population, the RTP is developed in accordance with federal
guidelines. It includes roadway, transit, and active transportation facilities paired with the appropriate land use that is identified,
modeled, selected, and phased, with the help of region-wide transportation partners; local communities including planners,
engineers, and elected officials; stakeholders; and the general public through an extensive planning process. WFRC coordinates
closely with cities, counties, UDOT, and UTA to understand the needs of our transportation partners and communities.
Regional transportation planning is a dynamic process in which amendments to the RTP ensure the plan appropriately
reflects the evolving nature of the transportation system. The RTP amendment process was updated in January of 2022
to address periodic requests to revise the Wasatch Front RTP and the Wasatch Choice Vision. There are three general
sources for RTP or Wasatch Choice Vision amendment requests: (1) local request from city or county elected officials that
usually involve collector roads, minor arterials, active transportation projects, and/or land use centers; (2) environmental
impact statements (EIS) or Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) amendments that make specific recommendations
that change the RTP project listing or phasing; and (3) periodic requests from the Utah State Legislature, UDOT, or UTA that
require an amendment to the RTP for new projects or the phasing of existing projects due to funding changes.
This year, WFRC updated the three levels of our RTP amendment process:
•

•

•

Level 1, Staff Modification, minor revisions can be amended by staff with no Council or Federal Highway Administration
(FHWA) action, but does require WFRC Executive Director approval in coordination with FHWA and the Interagency
Consultation Team.
Level 2, Board Modification for Non-Regionally Significant Projects, requires Council action and review by
the Interagency Consultation Team, city planners, elected officials, and WFRC committees. Requires a 30-day public
comment period.
Level 3, Full Amendment for Regionally Significant Projects, requires Council action and review by the
Interagency Consultation Team, city planners, elected officials, and WFRC committees. Requires a 30-day public
comment period, and an air quality conformity analysis.

Examples of Regional Transportation Plan Project Amendments:
Draper, Sandy, and West Jordan Active Transportation Plans

Project
Spotlight

Draper's AT Plan
PAGE 20

City-wide ATP for Draper, Sandy, and West Jordan were included in RTP Amendment #3
to identify new active transportation facilities, update existing bicycle facilities to higher
comfort, identify intersections requiring safer crossings, and improve connections to existing
and planned regional trails. The identified active transportation improvements will provide
multi-modal transportation options for the communities, help move toward a complete
active transportation network, and encourage healthy lifestyle choices. The Sandy Active
Transportation Plan was Sandy’s first-ever ATP! There were 41 total projects added to the
regional active transportation map and project list. All three of these plans were facilitated
through the TLC Program.

Sandy's AT Plan

West Jordan's AT Plan

ACTIVITIES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS REPORT

Environmental Impact Study (EIS) of the I-15 Corridor from 600 North to
Farmington
Project
Spotlight

The I-15 corridor between Salt Lake City and Farmington is one of the most heavily
traveled corridors in Utah and experiences heavy delays, deteriorating infrastructure,
limited connectivity, and safety issues. Nearly $1.7 billion in funding was programmed to
this corridor from the UDOT Transportation Investment Fund (TIF) for reconstruction and
other improvements, and with this new funding the project was moved to RTP Phase 1,
thought Amendment #4 to the RTP. These improvements will increase safety, replace aging
infrastructure, provide better mobility for all travel modes, strengthen the state and local
economy, and better connect communities along the corridor from Farmington to Salt Lake
City. To identify improvements, UDOT, with participation from WFRC and engagement of all
the communities along the corridor, is leading an EIS of the I-15 corridor from 400 South in
Salt Lake City to the US-89 interchange in Farmington. The purpose of the EIS is to determine
how best to address population growth and the future transportation needs in the area for
drivers, transit riders, bicyclists, and pedestrians.

UDOT I-15 EIS walk audit

Map of I-15 Study Corridor

UDOT I-15 EIS walk audit

PAGE 21

FISCAL YEAR 2022

Provided funding and technical support to communities.
WFRC is responsible for allocating federal funding for priority transportation projects in our region, primarily to local
governments. In the fall, WFRC invited communities to apply for Surface Transportation Program (STP), Congestion Mitigation
and Air Quality Program (CMAQ), and Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP) funding to help construct their priority
transportation projects. Submitted concept reports were evaluated with local governments and other transportation professionals
using technical criteria and information from field reviews. WFRC and partners utilized the successful hybrid approach developed
in 2021 of having staff on-site and connecting the review team and local government representatives to view project locations in
real time and discuss them virtually. After considering recommendations from the WFRC technical advisory committees, Trans
Com recommended, and the Regional Council approved future funding for a number of projects across the region. Due to the
passage of the federal Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA), additional funds were available to program.

WFRC funding support for local communities:

These WFRC funding programs are just part of the 2023-2028 Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) that identifies over
$7 billion in priority investments in roadway, transit, and active transportation infrastructure needed in the urbanized areas
of Salt Lake, Davis, Weber, and southern Box Elder Counties. Throughout the year, WFRC worked in close collaboration
with UDOT, UTA, cities, and counties to develop the TIP. These investments are essential to a well-functioning
transportation system, which is the backbone of the economy and vital to improving overall quality of life (Tooele and
Morgan Counties are included in UDOT's Statewide Transportation Improvement Program (STIP)).
In addition to extensive analysis, modeling, and professional collaboration, WFRC proactively engages with our communities,
residents, and stakeholders to ensure that our plans and programs are as effective and inclusive as possible. These
efforts include public open houses in accessible locations, traditional media coverage, social media, and online tools such
as interactive maps and visualization resources. Materials and information are offered in English and Spanish, and other
languages as is requested.

Gathering public comments for the Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) at the Ogden Intermodal Transit Center.

PAGE 22

ACTIVITIES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS REPORT

500 West Extension in Clearfield City & Syracuse City

Community
Spotlight

In partnership with Clearfield City, Syracuse City, UDOT, and WFRC, the existing collector
street of 500 West was extended from 2010 South to Antelope Drive, providing a
connection to the Freeport West Industrial Park. The project included a 60’-wide roadway,
sidewalks, drought-tolerant landscaping, a full-movement signalized intersection at 500
West and Antelope Dr., and the decommissioning of the existing signal at the intersection of
300 West and Antelope Dr.

500 West Extension Project Map

Scenes from the 500 West Extension Project Site
Design was completed by WCG Engineers and construction was done by Geneva Rock with construction
management provided by CRS Engineers. Property was acquired from nine different owners and an easement
was obtained from Rocky Mountain Power.
The project’s largest challenges included utilizing the 1,300’ of existing 60” storm drain line without confirmed
locations, fulfilling the project’s concrete needs during a concrete shortage, and getting roadside improvements
completed with the cooperation of neighboring property users. Funding was made possible from federal funds
through the WFRC and from the Davis County Council of Governments. The project is expected to be complete
by the end of 2022.

PAGE 23

FISCAL YEAR 2022

Ogden Express (OGX) Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)

Community
Spotlight

Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) combines the capacity and speed of light rail with the lower-cost
construction of an integrated bus system, and is coming to Ogden. Like rail it has a fixed
route, more robust stations, and a regular, more frequent schedule. Once complete, UTA’s
Ogden Express (also known as OGX) will provide riders a clean-air ride in an electric bus
from the Ogden FrontRunner Station, through downtown, along dedicated bus lanes in
the center of Harrison Boulevard and through the Weber State University campus, and to
McKay-Dee Hospital. When operational, riders will be able to catch the bus every 10-15
minutes on weekdays and 15-30 minutes on weekends. The Ogden Express is scheduled
to be operational by late 2023.

Construction along the new OGX BRT route

PAGE 24

Map of the forthcoming OGX BRT

ACTIVITIES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS REPORT

Goal Number Three
Provide subject-matter expertise to federal, state,
and local officials and policymakers.
WFRC worked with our national associations and local partners to
advance federal transportation policy and funding reauthorization in the
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) with an eye toward longterm funding stability and a strong state, regional, and local voice.

3

Source: The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law Will Deliver for Utah, Prepared by the U.S.
Department of Transportation, January 2022

•

As various surface transportation reauthorization and infrastructure
proposals made their way through Congress, WFRC worked closely with
our transportation partners, our federal delegation, and national associations
to share Utah’s joint Federal Transportation Reauthorization Principles, and
identify and advocate for important policy and funding provisions that would
impact WFRC and Utah's transportation system.

•

The IIJA provides stability and growth in federal funding over the next five
years, and creates opportunities to apply for discretionary grant programs.

•

Utah Senator Mitt Romney was one of the primary negotiators of the IIJA,
with the engagement of Utah’s transportation entities.

PAGE 25

FISCAL YEAR 2022

•

WFRC has been engaged in implementation of the IIJA in several ways:
1.

Leading National Association of Regional Councils (NARC) and Association of Metropolitan Planning Organizations
(AMPO) review working groups to provide feedback on IIJA implementation and rulemaking to the United States
Department of Transportation (USDOT).

2.

Providing information to federal, state, and local partners on what the infrastructure bill means for Utah, and
coordinating with these partners to identify key transportation projects eligible for discretionary grant funding,
including providing timely information about current IIJA funding with WFRC Federal Funding Opportunity Notices.

3. Working with partners to develop applications for discretionary grant programs.

WFRC meeting with Senator Mike Lee in Washington, D.C.
in Spring 2022

WFRC meeting with Senator Mitt Romney in Washington, D.C.
in Spring 2022

PAGE 26

ACTIVITIES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS REPORT

WFRC worked closely with our state legislators, local elected officials, and our partners to help advance growth and
transportation funding and policies during the 2021 interim and 2022 legislative sessions. Some of the key results include:
•

Advancing shared goals of greater housing affordability and availability, access to opportunities, a sustainable
environment, and transportation choices through adopting transit station area planning provisions for eligible
communities. HB462, Housing Affordability Amendments, sponsored by Representative Steve Waldrip, allows for a cityled planning approach where communities determine how to meet these shared objectives without mandating specific
zoning requirements. WFRC spearheaded the development of the Station Area Planning (SAP) provisions, along with
ULCT and UTA. The state, though GOEO, is providing $5 million to WFRC and MAG to provide technical assistance to
local communities to develop their SAPs.

•

Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone Act (HTRZs) enable a portion of incremental tax revenue growth to be
captured over a period of time to support development of housing and infrastructure around UTA FrontRunner stations
and, under SB140, also Trax and BRT. SB140, championed by WFRC member Senator Wayne Harper, will allow
for greater opportunity for utilization of this development tool to increase availability and affordability of housing and
coordinated development, consistent with the Wasatch Choice Vision.

•

FY22 was another year of historic
state investment in multimodal
transportation infrastructure, including
$1.2B in new General Fund one-time
funding for roads, public transit, and
active transportation. WFRC, along with
its partners, championed investment in
our multimodal transportation system, to
advance the priorities identified in Utah’s
Unified Transportation Plan. Some key
investments the Legislature and Governor
appropriated include:
o $721 million to accelerate state road
projects, relying on the professional
planning and prioritization processes
that are used to develop Utah’s Unified
Transportation Plan.
o $307 million for strategic doubletracking of FrontRunner. This includes $232 million to replace previously authorized
bonds. This funding saves the state interest costs, and rather than being needed for debt service costs it frees up
future Transit Transportation Investment Funds (TTIF) for other transit projects throughout the state. It also includes an
additional $75 million in funding.
o $75 million for Point of the Mountain transit solutions.
o $40 million for regionally important active transportation projects. This brings the total in state funding over two years
to an unprecedented $75 million.

•

Additional funding was set aside for growth planning, including $1.65 million ongoing for technical planning assistance
to the state’s seven associations of government, as well as $1 million to Governor's Office of Planning and Budget
(GOPB) for a Statewide Growth Conversation. WFRC championed these investments. These appropriations reflect the
importance of good planning, and aiding our local governments as they are challenged to meet the increasing demands
on housing, transportation, and economic opportunity.

These accomplishments build on progress made in previous years to increase state and local growth and transportation
funding, and to enhance the connection between transportation investment decisions and local land use and economic
development.
PAGE 27

FISCAL YEAR 2022

Goal Number Four
Strive for organizational excellence.
Maintained budget stability and used resources prudently and efficiently.
WFRC operated with accountability and transparency to its members and the
public in its decision making and in its use of resources, always striving to be
prudent and efficient in its expenditures. WFRC continued its more than 25-year
streak of unqualified audit opinions with no audit adjustments or deficiencies
noted to management. We maintained stability of our budget. We operated in
adherence to all applicable laws, rules, and best practices in our operations.

Pictured above, various members and attendees of a hybrid WFRC Council Meeting held
in-person and via Zoom

4
PAGE 28

Created and maintained a work environment that maximizes the health,
happiness, and productivity of an excellent staff.
•

Provided meaningful and constructive feedback to employees through
performance evaluations, formal quarterly check-ins and semiannual
evaluations.

•

Encouraged priority professional development opportunities. While
working remotely and transitioning to a hybrid schedule, our commitment
to professional development is ongoing, resulting in recertification
of professional licenses and certifications, participation in numerous
workshops, seminars, conferences, and training opportunities that
expanded personal and collective knowledge of policy, emerging concepts,
and best practices that have helped to improve WFRC’s work and support
of the Region. Additionally, we organized and provided remote quarterly
training to all staff members on selective topics of importance in the
workplace, including people skills, life skills, and stress management.

ACTIVITIES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS REPORT

•

WFRC has a wellness committee comprised of staff who work to plan and implement monthly activities to keep WFRC
staff happy and healthy. In June of 2022, WFRC was awarded the Innovation Award and Community Well-Being
Award from the statewide PEHP wellness committee.

The WFRC Wellness Team proudly displaying their two recent awards.

Adapt to a post-pandemic “new normal” in a way that strikes an appropriate balance between telecommuting
for convenience in office work and gatherings, while maintaining the human connection from physical proximity.
•

In March of 2022, after telecommuting successfully for two years, staff were elated to return to the WFRC office, albeit
on a new hybrid schedule of meeting in person on Tuesdays and Thursdays, with the option to work remotely the rest
of the week. Since then, WFRC has continued its focused regional support and productivity without missing a beat.
WFRC embraces a “new normal” of leveraging both virtual and in-person options for their meetings to accommodate
all audiences and will continue using both for public committee meetings, projects, partner meetings, and public open
houses.

•

We have been able to hire four employees to fill vacant positions in Communications, Financial and Human
Resources, and Analytics groups, during the past year. After comprehensive national search processes, we are pleased
to report that our hires are exceptional employees:
o Michael Sobczak – Communications Manager
o Marian Florence – Chief Financial Officer
o Kevrine Wells – Accounting Specialist
o Chris Day – Transportation Modeler

We are deeply appreciative of the opportunity to serve our community.
Thank you!
WFRC is proud of our work over the past year in close collaboration with our members and our public and
private-sector partners and stakeholders, and we look forward to continuing that work in the years to come.
PAGE 29

41 North Rio Grande Street
Salt Lake City, UT 84101
801.363.4250
wfrc@wfrc.org
wfrc.org
@WasatchFrontRegionalCouncil
@WasatchCouncil
WFRCvideo

FY2022 UNIFIED PLANNING WORK
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
for the

OGDEN - LAYTON AND SALT LAKE - WEST VALLEY
URBANIZED AREAS
prepared for

Federal Highway Administration
and Federal Transit Administration
in cooperation with

Utah Department of Transportation
and Utah Transit Authority
July 2022

FISCAL YEAR 2022

TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. ADMINISTRATION AND COORDINATION
A.1 Wasatch Front Regional Council.................................................................................... 2
A.2 Utah Department of Transportation............................................................................... 2
A.3 Utah Transit Authority.................................................................................................... 3

B. TRANSIT PLANNING
B.1 UTA Transit Planning..................................................................................................... 4
B.2 Mobility Management................................................................................................... 7

C. LONG RANGE PLANNING
C.1 Regional Transportation Plan........................................................................................11
C.2 Growth Planning......................................................................................................... 20
C.3 Local Government Support......................................................................................... 21

D. SHORT RANGE PLANNING AND PROGRAMMING
D.1 Transportation Management Systems......................................................................... 23
D.2 Plan Refinement and Special Studies......................................................................... 23
D.3 Transportation Improvement Program......................................................................... 25

E. PROJECT COORDINATION AND SUPPORT
E.1 UDOT Environmental Studies...................................................................................... 27
E.2 UTA Environmental Studies......................................................................................... 28

F. TRAVEL FORECASTING............................................................................................. 29
G. TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND SERVICES
G.1 Air Quality Analysis and Coordination.......................................................................... 31
G.2 Socioeconomic and Transportation Data.................................................................... 32
G.3 GIS and Database Management................................................................................. 33
G.4 Technical Support to Local Governments................................................................... 35
G.5 Tooele Valley Rural Planning Organization................................................................... 35
G.6 Morgan County-Ogden Valley Rural Planning Organization......................................... 35

H. PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT............................................................................................. 36
I. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
I.1 Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Program............................................... 39
I.2 Economic Development .............................................................................................. 39

PAGE 1

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

A. A
 DMINISTRATION AND
COORDINATION
A.1 WASATCH FRONT REGIONAL COUNCIL
On May 27, 2021, the Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC or Council) approved a budget and Unified Planning Work
Program (UPWP) for FY2022. This document was prepared by Council staff in coordination with the Utah Transit Authority
(UTA) and the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT). Contracts between WFRC and UDOT and between WFRC and
UTA were completed in 2021 for FY2022.
Regular meetings of the Council were held on the following dates: August 26, 2021, October 28, 2021, January 27, 2022,
March 24, 2022, and May 26, 2022. The Regional Growth Committee (RGC) and the Active Transportation Committee
both held five meetings during FY2022. The Transportation Coordinating Committee (Trans Com) held six meetings during
FY2022. Agendas, supporting technical documentation and minutes were prepared for each meeting. Various other
committees, including the Ogden-Layton and Salt Lake-West Valley Trans Com and RGC Technical Advisory Committees,
met regularly throughout the fiscal year.
WFRC continued coordination with partner agencies, including Mountainland Association of Governments, UTA, UDOT,
Utah Department of Environmental Quality, other MPOs, Utah League of Cities and Towns, Utah Association of Counties,
Chambers of Commerce, Envision Utah, Governor’s Office of Management and Budget and others. Continuing from
previous years, WFRC has agreements with UTA and MAG to provide technical assistance for transportation modeling
needs. WFRC and MAG staff lead a Models Advisory Committee that includes staff members from WFRC, UTA, MAG, UDOT
and others for the purpose of collaborating on model improvements and applications. WFRC’s Executive Director and other
staff attend the Joint Policy Advisory Committee (JPAC), which met regularly throughout the year. Originally established to
facilitate the coordination of transportation planning efforts of both WFRC and MAG at a policy level, including UDOT and
UTA, the Committee was expanded to include the other two MPOs in the state. WFRC staff also regularly attends MAG
Regional Planning Committee meetings, UTA Board and Committee meetings, and State Transportation Commission
meetings.
During the year the Council updated its Personnel policy to comply with best practices.
Council staff prepared and submitted monthly financial reports. An annual audit of the Council’s financial records for FY2021
was completed in October 2021 and copies of this audit were distributed to appropriate agencies. The Council’s audit of
the financial records for FY2022 is expected to be completed in October 2022 whereupon copies will be distributed to the
appropriate agencies.

A.2 UTAH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
The following items were completed by UDOT planning staff from July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2022:
•

Assisted WFRC to complete and sign Federal Aid Agreements for Annual UPWP. Administered and monitored monthly
expenditures by WFRC of PL, STP and FTA Section 5303 funds, which are deposited into the Consolidated Planning
Grant (CPG). Monitored and approved for payment the submitted WFRC CPG invoices.

•

Staff supported TACs, Trans Com, and Regional Growth Committee meetings.

PAGE 2

FISCAL YEAR 2022

•

Performed Conformity Concurrency reviews on MPO conformity determinations.

•

Assisted WFRC in interpreting and complying with updated air quality rules and regulations.

•

Participated in Interagency Consultations with WFRC, DAQ, EPA, UTA, MAG, and FHWA regarding the PM 2.5 SIPs and
the development of the new 8-hour Ozone SIP which includes the WFRC area.

•

Coordinated with WFRC the submittal of the annual CMAQ report to the FHWA (submitted February, 2022). Coordinated
with WFRC to complete CMAQ Performance Management Goals and Reporting Summary.

•

Attended coordinating meetings of the Tooele Valley Rural Planning Organization (RPO), which is staffed by WFRC.

•

Participated in the Unified Plan long-range planning process including all 4 MPOs, UDOT, and UTA. This includes work of
the financial, active transportation, GIS, and external forces subcommittees.

•

Continued to support the Interagency Modeling Coordinator position and collaborative modeling work.

•

Jointly funded transportation and land use study projects through the Transportation and Land Use Connection and
Technical Planning Assistance grant programs.

•

Worked with active transportation staff to identify regionally-important active transportation projects.

•

Continued work of joint interest through the Joint Projects Committee (see section D.2)

A.3 UTAH TRANSIT AUTHORITY
UTA’s commitment is to provide opportunities for mobility to help in meeting the public transportation needs of the Wasatch
Front area. Planning for these services is key to their success. UTA continues to find ways to improve transportation, alleviate
traffic congestion, and improve air quality for all customers.

Documentation, Reports and Other Requirements
UTA prepares documentation to comply with all federal, state and local administrative requirements under this work item.
These include the Unified Planning Work Program, Completion Reports, Annual Grants Status Report, Interlocal Agreements,
Grant Applications, audit documentation, FTA Triennial Review documentation, FTA Certifications and Assurances, reports
required for funding, agreements and contracts, meeting the various planning and project requirements, STP, CMAQ and
TAP concept reports, various meetings and grant required public involvement. UTA has a Grants Management team to
oversee the pursuit of grant opportunities. These functions are on-going.

National Transit Database (NTD) Data Collection and Reports
UTA will continue to collect data and perform surveys of the UTA system. Ridership reports are prepared monthly and
reliability reports on the transit system will continue to be produced. All data needed for the National Transit Database (NTD)
will be collected and electronically input into the federal NTD program. The strategic planning department collects park
and ride counts generally one or two times per year. The usage report is available and will be used as an evaluation tool for
prioritization of future park and ride lot needs.

PAGE 3

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

B. TRANSIT PLANNING
B.1 UTA TRANSIT PLANNING
Service Planning Standards, Design Guidelines, and System Analysis
In August 2021 UTA On Demand became a permanent service in southern Salt Lake County after the success of the pilot
from 2019-2021, including Covid restrictions. Flex routes in Herriman, Draper, and Riverton were replaced by the on-demand
service and resources from those routes were repurposed to provide new connections and serve additional destinations in
Sandy and Midvale. Some flex route service also replaced fixed-route bus, allowing UTA to preserve the same level of service
or higher on these corridors with a reduced number of staff.
In December 2021 UTA On Demand service was introduced to the west side of Salt Lake City. This service was sponsored
by the city as part of their Transit Master Plan and Funding Our Future efforts. During the first half of 2022, UTA Service
Planning worked with Salt Lake City on additional service increases and participated in public outreach regarding these and
other changes for August 2022 Change Day. Changes for August 2022 include new service changes as well as emergency
changes that were implemented in April 2020 due to Covid that had not been through the public engagement process.
During this time Service Planning has also worked on Small Area Studies to identify new markets and improvements
throughout the service area. Substantial work has been done on the South Davis Small Area Study, and work has begun on
the West Bench and Falcon Hill Small Area Studies.
In the spring of 2022 work began on the next Five Year Service Plan, including performance analysis of existing routes and
identification of new transit markets based on both pre-Covid and 2021-2022 data. The Five Year Service Plan is currently
expected to be approved in February 2023.

Agency Plan for the Future/Long Range Transit Plan (LRTP)
UTA is embarking on the development of an agency-wide long-range plan. The LRTP process kicked off in March of 2021,
starting with a listening tour with municipal staff across the region. In FY22, Long Range and Strategic Planning staff met
with nearly every city in UTA’s service area. Data on each city’s vision for their future, planned land use, and transportation
were collected. Additionally, a procurement process to hire professional services to assist in the development of the plan is
nearly complete.

Transit Financial Plan (TFP)/Financial Equity Analysis
UTA uses a spreadsheet model called the Transit Financial Plan (TFP) to track all costs and revenues as the basis for a
Financial Equity Analysis tool. In FY22, a Financial Equity Analysis, that measures UTA’s effectiveness at maintaining an
equitable balance between each county’s financial contribution and the level of service it receives, was performed as part of
the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.
UTA also uses a separate spreadsheet tool to test future scenarios of potential additional costs and revenues for projects in
the regional transportation plan and its financial assumptions (Scenario Tool). In FY22, the scenario tool was updated with
revised costs estimates and to better reflect the draft list of projects being considered for the 2023 Regional Transportation
Plan.

PAGE 4

FISCAL YEAR 2022

UTA Wayfinding Signage and Bus Stop Improvement Program
The Customer Experience team along with Service Planning and Facilities continue to install new signage to improve and
update system wayfinding. In FY22, 544 new bus stops signs were installed and three new rail stations were built with
signage procured using the new design standards: Airport TRAX, Vineyard FrontRunner, and 600 South TRAX. Additionally,
there have been a total of 80 ADA bus stop improvements and 42 other bus stop improvements (amenities) implemented.

Real-time Digital Signage for Bus
In 2022, UTA with funding support from a CMAQ grant will be piloting real-time digital bus departure information at select
locations in Weber, Davis, and Salt Lake Counties. The pilot will include intermodal hub locations providing UTA customers
with real-time bus departure information to help inform their travel decisions. The completion of the first phase of this
implementation is expected in late summer 2022.

Mobile Trip Planning
UTA is entering the fourth year of its formal partnership with the Transit app company through a cooperative agreement. The
Transit app provides the best options in the best layout, with real-time data for improved accuracy of transit trip building.
In 2021, UTA entered into a formal agreement between Transit App integrated trip planning and UTA On Demand service
powered by Via. The Transit app will now display VIA service as an option in building trips for customers. The app also
displays third party first-last mile providers (i.e. Uber, Lyft, carshare, scooters, etc.) to allow UTA customers to plan an entire
journey from door to door. UTA is in the process of procuring a new mobile ticketing provider that will enable integration of
mobile ticketing and trip planning all in one place on the Transit app.

Transit Oriented Development (TOD)/Station Area Planning
UTA continues to work with regional and local partners, to plan and implement transit-oriented development (TOD) projects.
Such projects are prepared first by envisioning and planning how station areas may improve to encourage TOD. During
FY22, two station area plans were initiated, one at the Ballpark TRAX Station, and the other at the Farmington Frontrunner
Station.
Once a station area plan is in place, UTA is able to proceed with the development of any properties that it controls within the
respective station area. Currently, six of these sites are active, with properties in some stage of the development process.
Three of these sites are under construction, one of these sites has a completed master development plan and is ready for its
first phase of development, and two of these sites are being prepared for a request for proposal (RFP).

Active Transportation Planning
Following the First/Last Mile (FLM) Strategy Study of 2015, which developed comprehensive first and last mile strategies
around major rail stations within the UTA system, UTA was awarded a TIGER grant from USDOT to implement some of the
recommendations presented in the study. This TIGER grant has allowed for the implementation of hundreds of FLM facilities
around service area transit stations and stops. In FY22, UTA made progress on a new effort focused on developing an Active
Transportation Master Plan. This plan will focus on similar evaluation of first and last mile strategies, but will include all fixed
route transit stations and bus stops. The main objective is designed to identify gaps and barriers for passengers accessing
transit facilities using an active transportation mode in order to prioritize and improve connections. UTA also continues to
support its partners on local and regional active transportation efforts and updates.

Emergency Preparedness Planning
Disaster training and exercise at the Utah Transit Authority (UTA) is a priority. In FY22, UTA conducted virtual Family
Assistance Center and Reunification Center training with the NTSB, as well as an in-person Table Top (TTX) and a Full
Scale (FSE) exercise with Fire and Police Departments in jurisdictions where UTA provides transportation services. While
PAGE 5

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

some local jurisdictions have canceled emergency drills and trainings, UTA Emergency Management has participated with
outside agencies where possible including a Salt Lake County Joint Information Center (JIC) Functional Exercise (FE), a Salt
Lake County Reunification Center training, and monthly Utah Division of Emergency Management (UDEM) State Emergency
Response Team (SERT) trainings.
UTA emergency management oversees and updates the Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP), Emergency Operations Plan
(EOP), Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP), and several service unit Emergency Response Plans (ERP). These plans are
current with additional ERP’s updated for FY22.
Additionally, to meet Department of Homeland Security National Incident Management System (NIMS) compliance UTA
coordinated with the Utah Division of Emergency Management (DEM) State Training Officer and agreed that UTA employees
identified as needing basic Incident Command System (ICS) training can meet requirements by taking the FEMA IS-100
and IS-200 courses. We initiated the format for UTA employees to complete these courses. Additionally, a team of UTA
personnel, including supervisors with Service Units, attended an in-depth, federally approved, incident command training
called BowMac. This two and a half week training was provided by the UTA Police Department. BowMac does not provide
ICS certifications, it does provide a structured training for UTA personnel to better understand their place within an ICS
structure for on scene response in the field. In FY22 we taught the first UTA iteration of the three-day training to UTA
personnel.
While we attempt to put COVID in the rearview mirror, it has remained on our radar during FY22. It affected our customer/
employee interaction as reflected by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) mask mandates and multiple mandate
extensions. The Security Directives and Emergency Amendment required mask use on public transportation through May 3,
2022. UTA complied with federal requirements. UTA continues to monitor world conditions regarding COVID.

Transit Agency Safety Plan
UTA’s Transit Agency Safety Plan (TASP) is updated each year. It is reviewed and approved by UDOT and also by UTA’s
Board of Trustees. The TASP establishes formal structure and processes to be used by UTA to identify, assess, track,
control, minimize and resolve hazards associated with UTA bus and rail systems. It is also used as a means of preventing
injuries, incidents, accidents, system disruption, environmental damage, and other losses. This plan is consistent with
federal, state and local regulations, and it sets forth procedures to comply with 49 CFR Park 659, UDOT’s SSO Program
Standards, and applicable Federal Railroad Authority rules and regulations applicable to TRAX and FrontRunner as
contained in 49 CFR.

Rideshare Program Planning
The UTA Rideshare Department continues to promote transportation demand management strategies throughout the
Wasatch Front by meeting with companies, agencies and individuals on carpool and vanpool matching, discounted pass
programs, flextime, telecommuting, and bike programs.

Special Services/ADA Strategic Planning
To ensure compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), UTA has and will continue to ensure that our services,
programs, and facilities are accessible to people with disabilities. UTA reviews all plans and provides internal technical
assistance to ensure our services, programs, and facilities support individuals with disabilities have access to the community.
UTA continues to seek guidance and feedback on disability related issues from its Committee on Accessible Transportation
(CAT) as well as other public transit stakeholders from the disability community. The CAT adds valuable on-going advice
to UTA as it plans for integrated and specialized services. The Committee offers a valuable resource to UTA in addressing
accessibility issues throughout its system.
Policies and procedures are regularly reviewed to assure a responsive and consistent paratransit service delivery system is
in place. This transportation option is necessary for riders with disabilities who cannot independently access and use fixed
routes for their transportation needs. UTA has also expanded its efforts to increase use of fixed route services by these
PAGE 6

FISCAL YEAR 2022

individuals through travel training activities and expanded disability-related training for UTA operators and staff on best
practices for service riders with disabilities and seniors.

Regional Air Quality Initiatives
UTA continues to be involved with local and state air quality initiatives that are focused on promoting transit as an alternative
transportation option to improve overall air quality along the Wasatch Front. UTA’s new clean fuels Depot District facility is
currently under construction. This new facility will provide bus services powered by EPA clean diesel technology, CNG, and
electric buses.
UTA also continues to partner with Salt Lake County, Utah Division of Air Quality, and the University of Utah to install air
quality monitors of UTA’s electric buses to provide real time monitoring of criteria pollutants PM2.5, ozone, and nitrogen
oxides to help develop strategies to improve air quality. Programs that UTA supported and promoted include PM 2.5
reduction through alternative fuels, the Clear the Air Challenge, and the Salt Lake Chamber’s Clean Air Champion Program.

Transit Asset Management Plan
UTA has developed a comprehensive asset management system that identifies future projects which will keep the existing
system maintained and operating in a safe and reliable manner. The ability to successfully identify projects is improved and
refined continuously as better and more accurate information is obtained.

Travel Demand and TBEST Modeling
In FY22, with increasing staff levels of expertise, UTA performed many travel demand modeling analyses in-house. These
include: a comparison of service scenarios that might lead to a desired percentage increase in ridership, how fare impacts
ridership, a sensitivity test of various light rail system routing choices, and others. UTA staff participated in the regional
interagency modeling technical committee and users group. UTA staff participated in travel demand model discussions on
external forces, mode choice update, and FrontRunner ridership forecasts
.

B.2 MOBILITY MANAGEMENT
UTA Coordinated Mobility Management staff plan and support the coordination efforts among transportation providers
and consumers to increase the efficiency and availability of human service transportation. UTA has been designated by the
Governor of Utah to be a designated recipient of FTA section 5310 funds to enhance the transportation services for seniors
and individuals with disabilities in Weber, Davis, Salt Lake and Utah Counties, which the Coordinated Mobility staff also
manages.
The Coordinated Human Service Public Transportation Plans were originally developed by the UTA Coordinated Mobility
Department in 2017 for the Wasatch Front area. The Plans were updated and approved by the Local Coordinating Councils
(LCCs) in 2022 for FFY 2022-2025. They cover the geographic areas of Weber, Davis, Salt Lake, and Utah counties. Other
counties within the state have developed plans based on their Council of Governments area or county. The Coordinated
Plans, which were created in collaboration with the local mobility councils and public outreach, identified various strategies
to address needs in the region for transportation disadvantaged persons including seniors, individuals with disabilities, lowincome people and veterans. They also identified the local resources currently available to assist the disadvantaged groups
with their transportation needs.
UTA continues its outreach with the Local Coordinating Councils (LCC) to support seniors, individuals with disabilities,
low-income individuals and veterans. This will remain a focus for Mobility Management. This outreach will include 5310 grant
opportunities and targeted efforts to increase the participation of individuals with disabilities, seniors and veterans on the
LCCs and in regional mobility decision making processes. This outreach will further coordination efforts, facilitate input on
transportation needs, and provide educational opportunities about available transportation resources and how to access
those resources.
PAGE 7

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

The LCCs include state and local agencies, stakeholders, consumers, and transportation providers from each of the USDOT
Urbanized Areas along the Wasatch Front. The mission of the LCCs is to “Foster, organize, and guide local and regional
coordination efforts that directly or indirectly improve access and mobility for seniors, persons with disabilities, persons with
low income, and/or veterans.” WFRC staff participates in the Davis/ Weber and Salt Lake Coordinating Councils and the
Grant Management Advisory Team, in addition to providing other support as needed to UTA’s Mobility Management work.

Development of Local Coordinated Human Service Transportation Plans
The locally developed Coordinated Plans have been updated and approved by the LCCs for FFY 2022-2025. The plans
will be used to guide the work of these Local Councils in increasing the coordination of human services transportation and
improving mobility throughout the region, including allocation of FTA 5310 grant funding.

RidePilot Lite
In 2021 development of RidePilot Lite was completed and moved to production. This version of RidePilot is a simpler version
aimed at allowing the user to easily enter in required information for the 5310 grant program.
By the end of 2021 UTA and Cambridge Systematics will have completed minor updates to the core RidePilot software that
allows the user to update and create recurring schedules easier and faster, track fare collection, and view unscheduled trips.
The RidePilot software is offered at no-cost (open-source software) and requires minimal training. UTA continues to work
with Cambridge Systematics to develop upgrades to the software to allow for 5310 sub-recipient reporting capability and
eventually real time scheduling and an integrated payment system.

Coordination with Bear River Association of Governments (BRAG) Mobility Management in Box
Elder County
UTA coordinates with BRAG as parts of Box Elder County are within the Ogden-Layton Urbanized Area. The UTA
Coordinated Mobility Department participates on the BRAG Local Coordinating Council. Providers within the urbanized area
in Box Elder County are included in the coordinated transportation activities and are encouraged to apply for FTA 5310 funds
for projects included in their coordinated plan.

Ongoing Outreach to Underrepresented Populations
UTA Mobility Management provides continued outreach to seniors, persons with disabilities, veterans, and low-income
populations. This is done a number of ways including: Local Coordinating Councils, chairing the Utah Division of Aging and
Adult Services (DAAS) Board, participation on the UTA Committee on Accessible Transportation (CAT), participation on the
Operation Enduring Freedom/ Operation Iraqi Freedom (OEF/OIF) Veterans Coordination Council, participation on the United
Way 211 Council, public event tables, speaking at community organizations, outreach for survey feedback, working with
government agencies, partnerships with non-profit organization, Travel Training, etc.

FTA 5310 Funding Administration
The goal of the Section 5310 program is to improve mobility for seniors and individuals with disabilities throughout the
urbanized areas of Utah by removing barriers to transportation services and expanding the transportation mobility options
available. The program requires coordination with other federally assisted programs and services in order to make the most
efficient use of federal resources.
UTA Coordinated Mobility Department is the designated recipient for 5310 funds allocated to the three large urbanized areas
of Utah. UTA’s role includes administering, managing, and programming these funds, and selecting and monitoring the
implementation of funded projects. UTA also has a responsibility to ensure that all interested parties have a fair and equitable
opportunity to apply; and if selected, receive a fair and equitable distribution of funds. Once funds are distributed, UTA is to

PAGE 8

FISCAL YEAR 2022

ensure that all selected grant recipients comply with guidelines as defined by the FTA and any state or local authority. UTA
is also responsible to ensure that the project review and selection process will include a determination that subrecipient
projects are consistent with the Coordinated Human Services Transportation Plan.
Management of the 5310 large urbanized program is a joint effort between FTA, WFRC, MAG, UTA, the Grant Management
Advisory Team (GMAT), and the Local Coordinating Councils to promote efficient use of grant funds and to ensure their fair
and equitable distribution.

Development of Travel Training Online Materials/Videos Based on Completed Curriculum
Travel Training is a department within UTA Mobility Management. The goal of travel training is to train individuals how to
independently ride the public transportation system. This service is available to anyone in the public, but most clients
have some self-identified disability or challenge. There are two Travel Trainers. A curriculum has been completed. Training
materials are being developed to supplement the curriculum as a foundation for the department as well as to assist the
Travel Trainers with training the public and other travel trainers. The completed curriculum will allow for further expansion of
the department as well as more outreach to the public. Online materials and videos are also being made to assist in virtual
training.

Electronic Voucher (eVoucher) Phase 2 Development, Pilot, and Production Deployment
The UTA Coordinated Mobility Department is involved in a public/private partnership to develop an electronic voucher
(eVoucher) system. In 2019 federal funds were awarded under the Innovative Coordinated Access and Mobility (ICAM)
program. In 2020 UTA was awarded federal funds under the COVID-19 Research Grant program to develop phase 2. This
phase will include creating native mobile apps for both Apple and Android devices, research the ability to pay for UTA
fares as well as other Transportation Network Company (TNC) fares such as Uber and Lyft, and expand on the current
development of eVoucher.
UTA will be piloting the eVoucher software with Davis County Aging, Weber County Aging, Roads to Independence, and
potentially BRAG. Effectiveness of these programs has already been shown in both rural and urbanized areas of Utah. These
projects lay the foundation and show the need and simplicity of an electronic voucher implementation.
This project could potentially benefit all paper voucher programs across the country. Additionally, there are other industries
that could benefit from this type of application. Based on this large opportunity UTA is also exploring the business case of
using the e-voucher application as a “software as a service” (SaaS) revenue model. This model could create a financially selfsustaining program.

Comprehensive Specialized Transportation Plan Outcomes
During 2019 and 2020, a Comprehensive Specialized Transportation Plan was developed with consensus from key
stakeholders, including the LCCs, across the Wasatch Front. It has identified human service transportation gaps for seniors
and persons with disabilities and proposed transportation solutions. The plan will be a guide for a number of specialized
transportation projects over the coming years. The below projects are related to the identified solutions in the plan.

UTA Donated Vehicle Program
Early in 2022 the Coordinated Mobility Department was assigned to administer UTA’s Donated Vehicle Program (DVP). The
CM department has streamlined the donation process. A DVP page has been created on the rideuta.com website, www.
rideuta.com/donatedvehicle, where organizations can submit a request for a vehicle. This request goes directly to the CM
department where the request is prioritized based on the intended use of the vehicle and when the request was submitted.

PAGE 9

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

Centralized Information Call Center/Crisis Ride Provider for Salt Lake County as Identified in the
Comprehensive Specialized Transportation Plan
Salt Lake County specialized transportation stakeholders identified the need for a stronger centralized transportation
information center as well as a crisis trip fund for same day trips for seniors and persons with disabilities. United Way 211
(UW211) applied and was awarded funds for crisis trips from the FTA 5310 Grant. The UTA CM Department worked on
scoping the project with UW211. It is intended that crisis trips through this pilot program will begin in the fall of 2022.

Travel Training FTA 5310 Grant Awards and Transition to the UTA Community Outreach
Department
The UTA CM Department applied for two Travel Training related grant requests, which were both awarded. One grant
request was awarded for an additional Travel Trainer. With the development of the Department and the growing public need,
the UTA CM Department felt it was time for personnel expansion to better serve the at-risk communities of the Wasatch
Front.
The second award is for the development of focused rail safety messaging targeted towards those with disabilities. It was
brought to the Department’s attention that persons with disabilities face unique challenges at the UTA rail stations. The Travel
Trainers will work with the UTA PR Department and the Rail Safety Department to develop a community outreach strategy for
this project.
Over time, the UTA Travel Trainers have been involved with many communities/agencies within the UTA service area. Much of
this outreach has involved working with the UTA Community Outreach Department. UTA decided it was the appropriate time
to move the Travel Trainers to the Community Outreach Department, which they did in the spring of 2022

Electric Vehicles for the Coordinated Mobility Department
The CM Department requested and was awarded FTA 5310 Grant funds for 2 electric vehicles (sedans) and 2 electric vehicle
(EV) charging stations to be placed at the UTA Meadowbrook 1 building. These vehicles will be used by the CM staff for their
mobility management outreach efforts. These vehicles will give CM staff better transportation access as the UTA white fleet
is nonexistent at the Meadowbrook facility. Also, this project is in line with the goals of UTA’s Zero Emission Plan.

Paratransit Service Study
The UTA CM department was asked to assist with a scope of work for a paratransit service study Request for Proposal
(RFP). The department's involvement was asked for because of “expansion of paratransit services” being identified in the
Comprehensive Specialized Transportation Plan, which was developed under the CM Department. UTA is seeking a study
to examine all possible paratransit service options as UTA expands its services including microtransit areas. A CM employee
has helped write the scope. The RFP should be out by August of 2022. The CM Department is only one of many internal UTA
partners working on this project and the project is not specific to the UTA CM Department. It is being mentioned due to its
relationship to the CM Department plans.
.

PAGE 10

FISCAL YEAR 2022

C. LONG RANGE PLANNING
This section highlights the update of the Wasatch Choice Vision and the development of the 2023-2050 Regional
Transportation Plan (RTP) planning process, research and review of external forces and policies that will influence the
Wasatch Choice Vision and 2023-2050 RTP, active transportation planning, rail and freight, safety, long range financial
model, coordination and collaboration of the 2023-2050 Unified Plan, and Amendments to the 2019-2050 RTP.

C.1 REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PLAN
Early in FY20, WFRC, in consultation with the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT), the Utah Transit Authority (UTA),
the Mountainland Association of Governments (MAG), local communities, and a variety of stakeholders, reviewed the
Wasatch Choice Vision and the 2019-2050 RTP planning process and collaboration efforts and looked ahead at the 20232050 RTP to assess what could be added, where more emphasis could be placed on existing items, and what could be
removed. The following schedule was adopted for development of the Wasatch Choice Vision and 2023-2050 RTP.

Wasatch Choice Regional Vision and 2023-2050 Regional Transportation Plan Process and
Schedule
The key process goals for the Wasatch Choice Vision and 2023-2050 RTP are to:
1.

Engage communities, partner agencies, stakeholders, and the public in the planning process.

2.

Provide resources to help local communities to implement the Wasatch Choice Vision.

3. Address external forces and uncertainties, including COVID19.
4. Explore policies, including changes in investment frameworks.
5. Coordinate regional transportation with local land use considerations and plans.
6. Utilize a performance-based approach to planning, including using performance measures to inform interim decisions.
The process is organized into three stages:
Stage 1 – Understanding Future Variability and Policies
2020

1Q

*

Identify/research external forces and policies related to transportation and land use

2Q

*

Peer review, screening, grouping, and evaluation tools for external forces and policies

3Q

*

Develop sketch scenarios

*

COVID-19 Recovery Strategies

*

Engagement #1 – Recovery / Implementation / Resources / External Forces / Policies

		

*

Develop and coordinate financial and phasing assumptions

		

*

Coordination on additional planning factors

		
4Q

PAGE 11

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

Stage 2 – Scenarios
2021

1Q

*

Scenarios test projects and policies considering external forces.

		

*

Assess performance and resiliency

		

*

Identify potential projects

*

Develop sketch scenarios

*

COVID19 Recovery Strategies

*

Engagement #2 - Draft Preferred Scenario

3Q
		
4Q

Stage 3 – Phasing and Implementation Plan
2022

2023

1Q

*

Finalize financial assumptions; land use forecasts; and project-level performance measures

2Q

*

Engagement #3 - Finalize preferred scenario

3Q

*

Draft phased and financially constrained projects

4Q

*

Engagement #4 - Project Phasing

1Q

*

Formal Public Comment Period

2Q

*

Plan Final Approval

3Q

*

5th Edition of Utah’s Unified Transportation Plan

Note: The time frames listed are approximate and overlap between the steps is anticipated.
The following provides background and information on the work accomplished during FY 2022 (portions of Stages 2 and 3
above).

Wasatch Choice Vision Goals
Wasatch Choice has been a shared regional vision for the Wasatch Front for nearly two decades. Building on community
values through an extensive public input process, Wasatch Choice established a blueprint for growth that supports a wellfunctioning economy, improves air quality, and enhances the overall quality of life for Utahns living across the Wasatch Front.
With Utah’s rapid population growth, there is a strong need to work together to proactively plan for growth by implementing
forward-thinking solutions now.
The 2019-2050 RTP is the transportation element of the Wasatch Choice Vision, our Region’s shared blueprint for regional
transportation, local land use, and economic development. When adopted in May of 2023, the 2023-2050 RTP will replace
the 2019-2050 RTP as the transportation element.
The Wasatch Choice Vision better articulates how to make the vision a reality through recommended implementation
strategies. The vision builds on the dynamic changes happening in local communities throughout the region..
The Wasatch Choice Vision focuses on the following ten Regional Goals:
•

Livable and healthy communities;

•

Access to economic and educational opportunities;

•

Manageable and reliable traffic conditions;

•

Quality transportation choices;

•

Safe, user friendly streets;
PAGE 12

FISCAL YEAR 2022

•

Clean air;

•

Housing choices and affordable living expenses;

•

Fiscally responsible communities and infrastructure;

•

Sustainable environment, including water, agricultural, and other natural resources; and

•

Ample parks, open spaces, and recreational opportunities

These goals are used in the project selection process to develop the preferred scenario and to help guide the phasing of
the Regional Transportation Plan. The criteria, weighting, and methodology utilizing these goals are slightly different by
transportation mode.

External Forces and Potential Policies Literature Review
In order to prepare the Region to be more resilient to change, both anticipated and unanticipated, WFRC staff identified
11 external forces that have the potential to influence future transportation and land use planning and implementation.
Additionally, staff identified 12 potential policies that could help address the impacts of those 11 external forces, among other
relevant issues.
External Force

Policy to Explore

Connected and Autonomous Vehicles

App Development

Electric Bike Adoption

Congestion Pricing

Electric Vehicle Adoption

Curbside Management

Freight Disruptions (new logistics)

Zero-Fare Transit

High-Tech Transit Systems

Local Street Design Modifications

Internet Shopping

Managed Lanes

Inter-Regional High-Speed Transit

Micro-Transit

New Micro-Mobility Adoption

Modernization of Parking Regulation

On-Demand Travel and Sharing Services

Road Usage Charge

Drones

Street Connectivity

Telecommuting

Subsidized Electric Bicycle Purchases

Once the initial forces and polices were identified, staff performed a literature review for each force and policy and created
a guidebook. Summaries for external forces in the guidebook included key findings, key considerations, what we know
with higher certainty, what we know with lower certainty, and COVID-19 resilience. Summaries for policies to explore in the
guidebook included key findings, key considerations, pros / cons, barriers to implementation, and applicability to external
forces.

Peer Group Review
In a spirit of collaboration, four peer groups were set up in 2020 to get feedback on the external forces and policies to
explore. The group feedback was designed to inform which of the forces and policies WFRC should continue to engage with
during the Wasatch Choice 2050 and Regional Transportation Plan planning processes. Group one was asked to look at
the forces / policies with a local community lens, group two with an active transportation lens, group three with a transit and
on-demand services lens, and group four with a roadway lens. Local experts from partner organizations, researchers, and
local community staff were invited to participate in each group by attending two meetings, one for external forces and one
for policy exploration. The guidebook was shared with all participants and they were asked to review prior to the meetings.

PAGE 13

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

Following the conclusion of all the group meetings, results from the polls along with comments received during the meetings
were examined and informed the second version of the guidebook, (written for a broader audience) and which external
forces were used for sketch scenario planning.
Members of the four peer groups were consolidated for the Technical Peer Group who commented and provided input on
the development and modeling of the RTP scenarios.

Scenarios
Following initial research, WFRC determined potential ranges of implementation for these external forces and forwardthinking policies. Three future scenarios were created looking at transportation conditions in 2050 - High Automation,
High Shared Mobility, and High E-Living. Scenarios gauge the long-term effectiveness of the policies and prospective
transportation projects by simulating how well they perform in the context of these external forces. These scenarios
combined various external forces and considered them with high, medium, and low implementation ranges, allowing for
comparison between the different scenarios. Additionally, WFRC polled the Joint Policy Advisory Committee (JPAC) and the
Technical Peer Group on what they felt the implementation of the external forces would be in 2050. The three initial scenarios
and the survey scenario were all modeled with the most current version of the Travel Demand Model (TDM) 8.3. This version
of the TDM was modified (for testing purposes) to account for how the external forces would change travel behavior and
demand. Technical documentation was done to provide further insight into each force’s trends, provide rationale for ranges
of implementation, and document integration of each force into the TDM environment. Finally, WFRC staff developed a
“preferred” scenario after considering the results of all the model runs and survey inputs, which was also run through the
Travel Demand Model. Draft results and changes of the combined external force scenarios and the policy results and
changes can be accessed online.

Resiliency
Through the development of the 2023-2050 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP), WFRC has been focusing on exploring and
understanding external forces - such as transportation technologies and shifts in market and consumer demand that may
impact transportation, land use, and economic development decisions. WFRC’s overall objective is to understand the range
of potential ways these external forces might affect transportation in order to collaboratively build a combined infrastructure
and land use system that is resilient regardless of how these external forces shape our lives.
In addition, WFRC continued to address resiliency through targeted discussions on natural disasters, especially with the
5.7 magnitude earthquake occurring March 2020 in the Salt Lake City - West Valley City urbanized area. The COVID-19
pandemic has brought to light the importance of incorporating resilience into our technical tools and into the foundations
of the 2023-2050 RTP. WFRC began internal discussion and outreach to FHWA and UDOT on developing a targeted
stakeholder committee to determine how resiliency should be further integrated into the Plan. To that end, WFRC gathered
a steering committee of local, state, and federal environmental agencies to review projects in the RTP. WFRC staff has also
been in coordination with local water districts, particularly with the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District and the Weber
Basin Conservancy District which provide critical water supply to Wasatch Front to discuss specific challenges with water
conservation and consumption as the region continues to grow. WFRC staff is developing an interactive tool to assess
environmental vulnerabilities and conflicts of RTP projects.

Draft and Evaluate Preferred Scenario
From the 2nd quarter of 2021 through the 1st quarter of 2022, the WFRC staff developed the preferred scenario with the
2019-2050 RTP project lists for active transportation, transit, and roads and then updated them based on the updated
project selection process which is rooted in the ten Wasatch Choice Vision goals.
A series of eight sub-regional vision workshops were held in October and November 20221 with community planners,
engineers, economic development staff, city managers, and elected and appointed officials from cities and counties
with attendance from FHWA, UDOT, UTA, ULCT, Envision Utah, the Point, and UCAIR. Each vision workshop included
participation from four to nine local communities. The focus of these workshops was to gather local community input
and evaluation of the draft preferred transportation projects. The WFRC staff facilitated virtual tabletop review of the
PAGE 14

FISCAL YEAR 2022

transportation projects by grouping a few adjacent local communities at the same table. This helped bring consensus among
staff and elected officials within a community.
The WFRC staff, in consultation with UDOT and UTA staff, reviewed the input from these eight fall Wasatch Choice
Workshops, comments from the visualization tool, input from stakeholder and outreach meetings, input from updated and
developed local community transportation master plans, and model outputs from the Real Estate Market Model (REMM)
and Travel Demand Model (TDM). The draft preferred vision was further refined through an iterative internal and external
review process. Refinements to projects included project type, mode, alignment, and termini. Regionally significant land use
centers, corridors, areas, and special districts types, intensity, location, and size were reviewed and adjusted on a separate
but parallel process in order to ensure land use centers were accurately portrayed.

Phase Projects
During the second half of FY22, the WFRC staff reviewed the ten Wasatch Choice Goals with transportation partners and
local communities to identify which goals should be used to evaluate the individual highway, transit, and active transportation
projects within the endorsed Vision compared to each other.
Phasing criteria were based on the 2019-2050 RTP criteria and reviewed against WFRC’s STP, CMAQ, and TAP funding
programs, UDOT’s TIF and TTIF prioritization process, and UTA’s Five-Year Service Plan prioritization criteria. In addition, staff
conducted an in-depth review of peer MPO planning prioritization criteria. The updated criteria sought to strengthen access
to opportunities and equity within the evaluation criteria. Evaluation methodology and scoring was thoroughly reviewed and
agreed upon with the transportation partners and local communities and the phasing criteria were then set.
Generally, there was consistency in evaluation criteria among transportation modes, with flexibility allowed to best fit each
mode. WFRC staff assembled data on all projects and scored them based on primary and secondary criteria discussed
above. Based on these scores, projects were identified in which 10-year phase they were needed (2023-2032, 2032-2042,
and 2043-2050). Needs-based phase assignments were reviewed by the transportation partners and local communities in
the spring of 2022.
Financial constraint will then be applied, and projects adjusted into a phase based on projected revenue by mode. The fourth
and final series of workshops and initial public comment period is planned for the fall of 2022 to review the draft financially
constrained 2023 RTP.

Financial Model
For the 2023-2050 RTP, WFRC, MAG, Dixie MPO, Cache MPO, UDOT, and UTA partnered to fund an update to the Unified
Plan Financial Model with consultant assistance. This work was coordinated through the financial subcommittee for
Utah’s Unified Transportation Plan. The Unified Plan subcommittee, with consultant assistance, finalized revising financial
assumptions, growth rates, revenue sources, and costs.
A Transit Scenario Tool was updated and integrated into the Unified Plan Financial Model for the 2023-2050 RTP. Working
closely with UTA and MAG, WFRC facilitated creation of this Transit Scenario Tool, a financial model that projects all future
costs from new transit projects as well as future revenue streams for UTA. The work effort focused on revising the Scenario
Tool to better meet the needs of the MPOs, including updating data sources and costs, setting up the model to allow for
scenario analysis, creating a dashboard to provide a summary, and developing an accounting system to identify the full
lifecycle expense of transit projects over the life of the Plan, which includes capital, operating, and state of good repair costs.
The upcoming 2023-2050 version of the Financial Model will also incorporate Active Transportation costs and revenues, a
first for the model. The Financial Model was finalized in the summer of 2022 and will be utilized to fiscally constrain the longrange plans across the State.

PAGE 15

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

Transportation Partner, Stakeholders Meetings, and Workshops
WFRC staff met with all transportation partners to debrief on the 2019-2050 RTP and ensure successful coordination for
the 2023-2050 RTP during the fall of 2019. Both UDOT Regions One and Two, along with the UDOT Planning Department,
MAG, and UTA were given the opportunity to provide feedback on the 2019-2050 RTP and have an open discussion for
improvements on the preferred scenario, phasing criteria, and draft needs and financial constraint of the 2023-2050 RTP
process.
WFRC continued to meet annually with the University of Utah, Research Park, Weber State, Rio Tinto, Larry H. Miller Group
(Daybreak), Salt Lake Community College, Point of the Mountain Development Commission, Inland Port Authority, Western
Growth Association, National Audubon Society, Trails Foundation Northern Utah (TFNU) / Parley’s Rails, Trails, and Tunnels
(PRATT) / Bike Utah, Utahn’s for Better Transportation (UBET), and the Utah Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE)
chapter to provide an update and seek feedback on the 2023-2050 RTP.
Transportation partners have been involved in the development of identifying external forces related to transportation and
land use for the 2023-2050 RTP. Coordination efforts with UDOT and UTA, on a weekly and bi-weekly time frame occurred
during all of FY22 to coordinate on the projects within the preferred scenario, phasing criteria and scoring, and phasing.
Leadership meetings with each UDOT Region occurred on a quarterly basis allowing for updates and feedback throughout
the planning process.
Regional Growth Committee Technical Advisory Committees (RGC TACs) were utilized to provide updates and facilitate input
and feedback from the local community planners. Interactive maps were sent out to the RGC TAC and the Trans Com TAC to
facilitate input on the preferred scenario and the draft project phases.
In January 2022 WFRC staff held a community workshop with Title VI Environmental Justice organizations. The focus of
this workshop was to look at future transportation investments in the region and have a discussion around the impacts to
the communities these organizations serve. Title VI Environmental Justice populations are identified as the following, but not
limited to, low-income, minority, persons with disabilities, and senior citizen groups.
WFRC staff also met with resource agencies in January 2022 to provide early identification of key concerns, mitigation
strategies, and solutions development for projects included in the draft 2023-2050 RTP, which may affect programs,
lands, or policies of resource agencies. Resource agencies included local, state, and federal environmental, water, energy,
economic, education, cultural, and health agencies. WFRC also met separately with the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy
District and the Weber Basin Conservancy District to discuss specific challenges to water resources as the region continues
to grow.
WFRC’s freight and local delivery stakeholder group reconvened in August 2021 to discuss different advancements in
transportation planning + freight and maintain partnerships with freight companies and keep them up to date with the RTP
process.

Website
WFRC staff began updating the organization's website to include the in-progress 2023-2050 RTP. These updates included
information about external forces and policies, external forces scenario work, and public comment opportunities. WFRC
staff also provided a robust update to the performance measures space on the website, including a detailed discussion on
federal performance measures, regional transportation plan performance-based planning, open space analysis, access to
opportunities, and the state of the centers. Updates to the website are done periodically by WFRC staff.

Performance Measures
The Wasatch Choice Vision goals and performance measures address accessibility, mobility, state of good repair, fiscal
responsibility, safety, economic development, energy, livability, environment, air quality, and equity. The Long Range
Planning and Analytics Groups at WFRC worked collaboratively to establish analysis and automation methods to make
PAGE 16

FISCAL YEAR 2022

the performance measure process more efficient. WFRC spent significant effort to operationalize access to opportunity
measures to better link transportation, land use, and economic development. WFRC continued work on developing
monitoring plans for the Wasatch Choice Vision, including observed, regulatory, and planning aspects of the regional
transportation system, land use, and economic development aspects of the Regional Vision.
WFRC’s performance-based planning and programming is rooted in federal performance measures being defined by FHWA
and FTA.
The Regional Council is in the process of coordinating with UDOT and UTA to re-evaluate and update performance targets
for each of the defined performance metrics. WFRC continues to incorporate federal requirements into regional planning and
programming, and to collaborate with UDOT and UTA to ensure the plans and programs assist in meeting targets. WFRC
collaborated with UDOT to update federal performance measure targets and reporting during FY22.
WFRC staff also completed an overhaul of the performance measure space on the WFRC website to make performancerelated information easier to find and more transparent. This update includes information about federal performance
measures, RTP performance-based planning, Wasatch Choice Vision centers performance analysis, and open space
analysis.

Active Transportation Planning
The Regional Council has established an Active Transportation Committee (ATC) which met five times in FY22. This
Committee, made up of elected officials and staff as well as representatives from MAG, UDOT, Utah Department of Health
(UDOH), and UTA, advised the Transportation Coordination Committee (Trans Com) and the Regional Growth Committee
(RGC) on bicycle and pedestrian issues. Specifically, the Committee reviewed and provided feedback on the 2023-2028
Transportation Alternative Program applications, discussed regional trail maintenance, toured Salt Lake City neighborhood
bike infrastructure, provided input on RTP phasing criteria, heard from UDOT on active transportation outreach, promoted
the Golden Spoke network of trails and ParkRx Utah, and heard from shared/micromobility providers and experienced
new e-mobility devices. Additionally, the ATC approved and adopted Focus Areas for 2022 on planning bicycle and
pedestrian infrastructure, funding construction of infrastructure that benefits underserved communities, educating the public
about active transportation and its symbiotic relationship to transit, discussing share the road education for drivers, and
coordinating on policies such as e-bike regulation. These adopted Focus Areas represent a targeted focus to move active
transportation forward in a meaningful way.
The Active Transportation (AT) Planner participated in local planning efforts, in coordination with WFRC’s Transportation and
Land Use Connection Program, during FY22. The Planner also developed the bicycle portion of the RTP, as described in that
section of the document. Additionally, the AT Planner participated in conference/event organizing committees for the Move
Utah Summit, Pedestrian Safety Summit, and Golden Spoke Ride.
Presentations on advancing active transportation in the region were given at APA Fall Conference, UDOT Conference, Utah
Bike Summit, and Legislative Transportation Interim Commission.
In 2020, WFRC worked with UDOT to develop a list of regionally important active transportation projects that were then
scored through the UDOT statewide Transportation Investment Fund (TIF) AT prioritization process. This prioritized list was
used to determine projects eligible to receive portions of the $35 million one-time State Legislature funding authorized in
2021 and $40 million one-time State Legislature funding authorized during the 2022 Legislative Session to construct active
transportation facilities. Any projects that do not receive portions of the one-time appropriation are automatically eligible for
funding consideration through TIF AT as programmed by the Transportation Commission.

Utah’s Unified Transportation Plan
Utah’s Unified Transportation Plan is a collaborative effort between transportation agencies across the state of Utah including
the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT), Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC), the Mountainland Association of

PAGE 17

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

Governments (MAG), Dixie Metropolitan Planning Organization (DMPO), Cache Metropolitan Planning Organization (CMPO),
and Utah Transit Authority (UTA). Utah’s Unified Plan partners worked together to develop common goals, planning time
horizons, performance measures and financial assumptions so that their plans are consistent across the state while meeting
local needs. WFRC staff chaired the Disruptive Forces and Active Transportation subcommittees, while actively participating
in the Performance Measures, GIS, and Finance subcommittees. The Disruptive Forces subcommittees helped to refine
external forces and policies research and priorities through participation in WFRC’s peer groups and meeting twice during
FY21. The Active Transportation subcommittee has focused on how to better consider and incorporate active transportation
into the Unified Plan Financial Model and has begun gathering historic spending data on active transportation specific
projects. Additionally, the subcommittee is working to define how active transportation projects should be phased within the
Unified Plan.

Increased Emphasis Areas
Safety
The WFRC evaluated trends in safety data for locations and types of crashes to better inform the 2023-2050 RTP. WFRC
staff coordinated with UDOT on incorporating the usRAP Star Rating Safety Tool to analyze safety for the 2023-2050 RTP.
WFRC will continue to make this trend information, along with recommended strategies to reduce crashes, available to local
agencies. The Star Safety Rating tool was utilized in determining phasing of transportation projects on the 2023-2050 RTP.
Freight
During FY22, various rail and freight planning activities were accomplished by WFRC in collaboration with UDOT and other
partners. WFRC’s freight and local delivery stakeholder group reconvened in August 2021 to discuss different advancements
in transportation planning + freight and maintain partnerships with freighting companies and keep them up to date with the
RTP process.
WFRC also acquired Streetlight data in partnership with UDOT and other transportation agencies across the state, which will
help inform the MPO’s understanding of goods and freight movement. UDOT began a freight modeling and data collection
study that MPOs participated in.
New technological advancements and changes in distribution and delivery has been a key research area in the exploration
of external forces with transportation partners. WFRC continues to respond to freight surveys from FHWA, AASHTO, and
academic institutions. WFRC also will begin an urban freight and local delivery study to understand this continually changing
landscape and what member communities can do to prepare for future growth in online shopping and delivery in the region
Local Plans
The WFRC staff has reviewed both comprehensive land use and transportation plans from the cities and counties throughout
the Wasatch Front Region. The review of these plans has helped identify inconsistencies between the local plans and the
RTP for both specific transportation projects (roadway, transit, and/or active transportation) and better aligning the Wasatch
Choice Vision with the local future land use planning. WFRC staff started reviewing both the potential projects list and the
land use updates with the local communities, UDOT, and UTA in FY21 and FY22, with continued refinement anticipated to
take place throughout the planning process.
Equity
The WFRC staff worked to incorporate equity into the 2023-2050 RTP. This was done by hosting a Wasatch Choice
Community Workshop to review the RTP projects and give feedback, review and update phasing criteria to include equity
components in the project scoring, collecting human narratives to bring our transportation planning down to the human
scale, and revisit and update equity analysis criteria. Focus areas include: creation of the Wasatch Choice Community
Advisory Committee (see below), human scaling the RTP, benefits and impacts in the RTP, outreach to equity partners,
education of transportation related equity issues, and service planning of transit.
PAGE 18

FISCAL YEAR 2022

During FY22, WFRC began a robust process of seeking individuals to interview across the region and provide their
perspective of utilizing different transportation modes to access a variety of destinations within the regional transportation
network. This work’s purpose is to help share personal stories of how transportation impacts real lives across the Region.
The effort will continue into FY23 and be included in the 2023-2050 RTP documentation.
WFRC, in partnership with other transportation agencies and Wasatch Choice partners, developed the Wasatch Choice
Community Advisory Committee with the purpose of understanding transportation needs of historically underserved
communities.
WFRC solicited applications for the committee in late FY22, will convene the committee four times in the upcoming fiscal
year, provide compensation for committee members, and engage committee members on various transportation programs
to increase community capacity building and engagement in long-range transportation planning and decision making
processes.

RTP Amendment Process
During FY22, WFRC in consultation with UDOT, UTA, local communities, and FHWA, updated the amendment process for
the RTP and the Wasatch Choice Vision.
The updates included modifying the process to codify consultation with the air quality Interagency Consultation Team (ICT),
move the Wasatch Choice Vision Centers to a Level 1 amendment, and align project types within each amendment level to
the federal air quality conformity determination guidance.
There are three general sources for RTP or Wasatch Choice Vision amendment requests: (1) local request from city or county
elected officials that usually involve collector roads, minor arterials, general land use centers, or regionally significant centers;
(2) environmental impact statements (EIS) or Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) amendments that make specific
recommendations that change the RTP project listing or phasing; and (3) periodic requests from the Utah State Legislature,
UDOT, and UTA that require an amendment to the RTP for specific projects or the phasing of existing projects.
Some minor modifications can be made by WFRC staff without action by the Regional Council. Others do not require a
new air quality conformity finding but do need an opportunity for public comment and approval by the Regional Growth
Committee (RGC). Finally, some changes are significant enough to require a new air quality conformity finding and a full 30day public comment period before Regional Council approvall.

Amendment #3 to the 2019-2050 RTP
The WFRC Executive Director, RGC, and the Regional Council updated the 2019-2050 RTP with Amendment #3. This
amendment, the largest in WFRC history, included one project that fell within Level 1 - Staff Modifications, eight projects
that fell within Level 2 - Board Modifications, and 13 projects that fell within Level 3 - Full Amendment requiring a 30-Day
public comment and a revision to the Air Quality Conformity Analysis. It should be noted that the breadth of this amendment
included land use, active transportation, transit, and roadway projects all to fulfill uniformity between local plans or the
accelerated programing of funding.

Amendment #4 to the 2019-2050 RTP
The WFRC Executive Director approved, in consultation with the RGC Chair and Vice-chair, an updated the 2019-2050 RTP
with Amendment #4. This amendment was a Level 1 - Staff Modification to the region-wide refinements to the Wasatch
Choice Vision Centers. With the adoption of Senate Bill 34 (2019), many communities throughout the Region have revised
or developed new visions and plans that warrant further refinement of the Wasatch Choice Vision for better alignment with
communities’ local visions. In addition, these boundary improvements will increase the accuracy of inputs into WFRC’s
models and the accuracy of population and employment projections and transportation forecasts.

PAGE 19

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

C.2 GROWTH PLANNING
WFRC works to integrate land use and economic development considerations with its core transportation planning and
programming functions. The Wasatch Choice Vision establishes a shared blueprint for how land use, transportation, and
economic development change through the year 2050. Wasatch Choice seeks to advance regional goals (see Section C.1).
This vision is in turn translated into three component plans, 1) the Regional Transportation Plan (RTP), 2) the Comprehensive
Economic Development Strategy, and 3) local general plans.
WFRC sets annual goals for the agency’s planning work. Goal 1 for 2022 was to “Collaboratively advance the Wasatch
Choice Vision as a framework for integrating transportation, land use, and economic development, to best address growthrelated opportunities and challenges.” This section outlines the advancement of this goal..
1) Regional Transportation Planning
In the last year, WFRC has continued working with stakeholders and partners to develop the 2023-2050 Regional
Transportation Plan. This has involved refining the Wasatch Choice centers and exploring transportation projects and
policies that advance the Wasatch Choice goals.. This is discussed further in C.1.
2) Economic development activities
The Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS) is an integrated component of WC2050. The four year
CEDS was adopted in May 2019.One of the adopted goals in the CEDS is “access to jobs and educational opportunities”
- consistent with the Wasatch Choice goal “access to economic and educational opportunities.” For the CEDS this goal
has been translated into metrics to help inform where economic development best improves access to opportunities
(ATO). These activities are further detailed in I.2.
3) Local general plans
In 2022 WFRC continued its work assisting local governments including use of the partnership Transportation and Land
Use Connection (TLC) program (which is partially funded by the FHWA Surface Transportation Program). Additional
activities to support local planning and implementation of the Wasatch Choice Vision included the following.
WFRC, Mountainland AOG (MAG), UTA and the Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity partnered to further assist
communities in their efforts to plan for transit supportive communities in the Wasatch Choice Centers. New station area
planning requirements are addressed in House Bill 462 passed in 2022 to address Utah’s housing needs.
WFRC and ULCT launched the “Your Land, Your Plan” initiative, funded by a generous grant from Intermountain
Healthcare and Zions Bank, to support municipalities and public private partnerships to advance public real estate asset
planning and management. The initiative will plan for built environments that enable healthy living and unlock the value of
public real estate asset holdings to enhance planned changes to the built environment.
WFRC hosted 8 Wasatch Choice Workshops in Fall 2021. These workshops brought local leaders and staff from
nearby communities in each part of the region together to discuss their in-common challenges that need to be
addressed in order to effectively implement the shared Wasatch Choice Vision. The workshops focused on refining the
draft system of projects being developed for the Regional Transportation Plan (the transportation element of Wasatch
Choice).
Staff worked with community organizations, business organizations, and transportation agencies to further regional
collaboration around the Vision.

PAGE 20

FISCAL YEAR 2022

Section C.3 outlines ongoing use of the TLC program, which continues to support local governments by funding projects
that implement the Wasatch Choice Vision, coordinate land use and transportation, reduce travel demand, and increase
access to opportunity.

Technical Advisory Committees
During FY2022, the WFRC continued to work closely with both of its Regional Growth Committee Technical Advisory
Committees (RGC TAC). Agenda items for FY2022 included briefings and presentations on the new Wasatch Choice
Resources, Implementation of the Wasatch Choice Vision, RTP amendments, TLC awards announcements, corridor
preservation funds, small area meetings, legislative updates, comprehensive economic development strategies, fiscal year
major planning efforts, active transportation planning, transportation improvement program projects, and updates from both
the Utah Department of Transportation and the Utah Transit Authority

Corridor Preservation
Staff continued to participate on the State Corridor Preservation Advisory Committee. This Committee makes corridor
preservation purchase recommendations to the State Transportation Commission.

C.3 LOCAL GOVERNMENT SUPPORT
Transportation and Land Use Connection Program
In fiscal year 2022, 16 projects received TLC funding, one of which includes multiple cities and three of which are the first
independent award for those municipalities. The relationship with partners Salt Lake County, UDOT, and UTA continues to
strengthen; their partnership provides TLC projects with key decision makers and helps define a path toward implementation.
The TLC team also collaborated with UDOT in generating and awarding projects for statewide Technical Planning Assistance
funding, enhancing the partnership and providing more support to member communities.
The program helps communities implement changes to the built environment that reduce traffic on roads and enable more
people to easily walk, bike, and use transit. This approach is consistent with the Wasatch Choice Vision and helps residents
living throughout the region enjoy a high quality of life through enhanced mobility, better air quality, and improved economic
opportunities.
In FY 2022, WFRC received $2.2 million in requests for funding, demonstrating the significant ongoing demand for WFRC
and partner support in local planning efforts. Over the past several years, the TLC program has worked with communities on
128 projects. TLC project types include small area plans, transportation and active transportation master plans, ordinances
updates, form-based codes, market analyses and more. The TLC program also offers in-house technical assistance to a
few communities, utilizing WFRC expertise and stretching the available funds. To date these in-house projects have included
general plans, ordinances, parking studies, housing affordability and accessibility studies, and transportation master plans.
In FY2021, WFRC received $1.6 million in requests for funding, demonstrating the significant ongoing demand for WFRC and
partner support in local planning efforts. Over the past several years, the TLC program has worked with communities on
112 projects. TLC project types include small area plans, transportation and active transportation master plans, ordinances
updates, form-based codes, market analyses and more. The TLC program also offers in-house technical assistance to a
few communities, utilizing WFRC expertise and stretching the available funds. To date these in-house projects have included
general plans, ordinances, parking studies, and transportation master plans.

PAGE 21

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

Station Area Planning
Toward the end of the fiscal year, WFRC has been preparing an approach in response to recent station area planning
legislation. HB462 gives WFRC the responsibility to certify each city’s station area plans, and to provide technical assistance
to communities to help them prepare their station area plans. The initial round of technical assistance will be available at the
beginning of fiscal year 23. The WFRC has adopted a policy for certifying station area plans.

PAGE 22

FISCAL YEAR 2022

D. SHORT RANGE PLANNING AND
PROGRAMMING 			
D.1 TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
TSM/TDM Promotion
WFRC staff met with sponsors of 16 projects in the urban area funded under the Surface Transportation Program (STP)
and Congestion Mitigation Air Quality (CMAQ) programsto recommend transportation system management (TSM) and
transportation demand management (TDM) strategies appropriate for their respective projects. Access management,
pedestrian and bicycle facility improvements, transit access, intersection improvements, and traffic signal coordination are
examples of the strategies addressed at these meetings. UDOT staff also attended the orientation meetings and shared
potential safety improvements that could be considered in the respective projects.

Congestion Management & Air Quality
Based on the air quality benefit/cost and other benefits, the WFRC Council selected qualified transportation projects valued
at a total of $10 million for CMAQ funds in 2022 after evaluating several candidate projects with a total value of $49 million.
The approved projects include a pedestrian bridge, expanded Green Bike operation, round-a-bouts, transit operation hub,
and a multi-use school access trail.

Traffic Management Committee
The Salt Lake/West Valley traffic management technical committee is a subcommittee to WFRC’s Trans Com technical
advisory committee for this area. The subcommittee continued to help coordinate expanding and upgrading signal
coordination, freeway traffic management, and traveler information systems in the Salt Lake/West Valley Area, as well as to
address current operational issues.

D.2 PLAN REFINEMENT AND SPECIAL STUDIES
Special District Planning
The 2023-2050 RTP took special consideration to include refinements to transportation and land use assumptions
to incorporate planning at special districts including the Point of the Mountain, Northwest Quadrant/ Inland Port, and
Falcon Hill. Direct coordination with the Point of the Mountain Commission and staff incorporated an emphasis in active
transportation and transit projects serving this development along with a connected and integrated roadway network.
Continued coordination with the Inland Port Authority in the northwest quadrant of Salt Lake City included review of
employment and transportation infrastructure. WFRC staff coordinated with Hill Air Force Base (HAFB) on the development
of the Hill AFB Compatible Use Plan (CUP) along with coordination with the Military Installation Development Authority (MIDA)
on the Falcon Hill development to update the population, employment, and all three transportation modes within the 20232050 RTP.

Future of Light Rail Study
In FY22, UTA initiated and has been performing Phase 2 of the Future of Light Rail Study. A stakeholder workshop was held
to prioritize system goals and provide investment choices to meet those goals. Four analysis scenarios were developed.
Operating plans, simulations, and travel demand modeling were performed on each scenario. Results were reported using
PAGE 23

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

evaluation criteria on reliability, ridership, access to jobs, and travel time. A second workshop with stakeholders was held
near the end of the fiscal year to report and ask for more specific investment priorities. A fifth and final scenario that will
become UTA’s Light Rail Strategic Plan is in progress.

FrontRunner Forward Study
During FY22, UTA procured a FrontRunner Program Manager to further develop service ideas through design, environmental,
and funding stages of project development, with the intention to produce a FrontRunner Business Plan. An initial package
of investment and service proposals were developed. Subsequent developments outside UTA have led to a re-evaluation
of this work. During the 2022 legislative session, the Utah Legislature passed a law that assigned the Utah Department of
Transportation (UDOT) to oversee transit projects that include state-provided funds. Investment in FrontRunner was included
in the law. Since then, a UDOT project manager has been assigned and is being briefed on the work done to date.

Park & Ride Master Plan Update
With changes in station area planning, attention being paid to active transportation, and reduced demand during the
pandemic, UTA has decided not to update the Park and Ride Master Plan at this time.

I-15 Mobility Alliance
WFRC participated in the multi-state I-15 Mobility Alliance. Multiple workshops included high capacity transit and major
infrastructure. Participants from these workshops included state, MPO, and transit agencies from California, Nevada,
Arizona, and Utah. It is anticipated that this Alliance will continue coordination efforts into the following years.

Park & Ride Master Plan Update
In 2014, a Park & Ride Master Plan was developed to plan for new, expansion and re-use of existing park & ride lots across
UTA’s service area. This document is still being updated in order to better reflect the existing and projected demand for park
& ride and provide valuable data to the UTA Station Access policy.

Census 2020
WFRC Analytics staff processed the statewide 2020 Census Redistricting tract, block group, and block files to increase
usability within GIS software. The updated files and metadata were provided to the Utah Geospatial Resource Center
(State GIS office) and published at gis.utah.gov for public discovery and use. The resulting dataset is utilized to inform
socioeconomic estimates and projections by Utah’s transportation agencies. An additional dataset was created and similarly
shared that summarizes racial/ethnic identification for each group recognized within the Census process. WFRC shared
analysis on data quality anomalies related to housing unit counts in several Utah counties.

Zero Fare Transit Study
The WFRC, in partnership with MAG, UTA, and UDOT, kicked off a study to consider revising the transit fare structure in the
region. The study is planned to be complete with final deliverables ready by the end of 2022.

Regional Active Transportation Count Program
The WFRC, in partnership with MAG, UTA, and UDOT, are kicking off an effort to organize and create a coordinated counter
program in order to collaborate on a data hosting/sharing platform for the region that is based on industry best practices and
is responsive to the data available locally for active transportation.

PAGE 24

FISCAL YEAR 2022

Unified Transportation Plan 2023-2050 Document Development
The Utah Unified Transportation Plan is a collaborative effort between transportation agencies across the state of Utah. Every
four years these agencies merge their data, research, experience, and expertise to develop a new plan designed to keep
Utah transportation moving. This project will update the Utah’s Unified Transportation Plan document to the current planning
cycle for 2023-2050.

Other Planning Studies
In FY22, UTA outlined and began a program to look for ways to increase speed and reliability of its bus system. It’s been
named the Bus Network Optimization Program or BNOP. The program seeks to increase ridership by improving the
customer experience and travel times. Data collection from operators and a workshop of various bus service staff have been
completed, as well as research on creating a toolbox of solutions to various typical problems that cause delays.

D.3 TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
The WFRC took the necessary steps to approve the 2022-2027 Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) in August 2021
along with the corresponding Air Quality Conformity Determination (Air Quality Memorandum 40a). Among other steps, this
included a 30-day public comment period in July 2021. Along with the TIP approval, WFRC completed and approved the
annual self-certification of the transportation planning process at its August 2021 meeting.
Monthly meetings between WFRC and UDOT staff members facilitated coordination on TIP/ STIP programming,
modifications, and amendments. These included executive level meetings and program management level meetings. WFRC
staff also met regularly with UTA for TIP coordination. In developing the 2022-2027 TIP, the WFRC staff worked with UDOT
to ensure that funding for projects in the existing four funded years (2022, 2023, 2024, and 2025) within the Wasatch Front
Region was financially constrained and projects were on schedule.
In the fall of 2021, WFRC staff sent a request for a “Letter of Intent” from potential sponsors wishing projects to be
considered for the Surface Transportation Program (STP), Congestion Mitigation/ Air Quality (CMAQ) Program, and
Transportation Alternative Program (TAP). Following a staff review to determine eligibility, project applicants were directed
to access a “Project Evaluation Concept Report”, a “Project Cost Estimate Report”, and an “Emission Analysis Form” (for
CMAQ applications), on the WFRC website and complete the appropriate information. Once the project concept reports
were received and reviewed for completeness, staff began the evaluation process. This process involved a spreadsheet
scoring of the projects based on approved technical criteria, an onsite/ virtual field review of each project, and other
professional measurements and considerations. This year, the on-site field review with virtual participation enabled staff from
WFRC, UDOT, FHWA, UTA, and local governments to meet with each project sponsor to review the project concept, ask
questions, and identify possible concerns, or alternate solutions.
Due to the number of projects submitted, WFRC staff reviewed a presentation of the projects with the Trans Com Technical
Advisory Committees (TACs) in February. This introduction provided the TAC members with the resources and time to
understand the projects in better detail and enable them to make sound recommendations in their March meetings where
the TACs discussed the projects and developed recommendations for the draft STP, CMAQ, and TAP programs. Their
recommendations are based on data, sound engineering, and the project environment. Some of the factors discussed to
enable a recommendation included: safety, project sponsor priorities, coordination with other projects, additional funding
coordination, equity of funding distribution, complete systems, professional considerations, air quality benefits, and project
cost. Following these meetings, the technical scoring and TAC recommendations were presented to each of the County
Councils of Governments (COG) for their review and input. The project data and the TAC recommendations were then
presented to the Transportation Coordinating Committee (Trans Com) for their review, discussion, and recommendation to
the Wasatch Front Regional Council to include the proposed projects in the draft STP, CMAQ, and TAP programs.

PAGE 25

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

Once the Regional Council approved the draft programs, staff went to work with staff from UDOT and UTA to prepare the
draft 2023-2028 TIP for public review and comment. Included in the draft 2023-2028 TIP with the STP, CMAQ, and TAP
programs are other federal-aid highway and state projects proposed by UDOT, and the federal transit projects proposed by
UTA. The WFRC staff worked with these two agencies to compile the lists of other proposed projects for inclusion in the draft
2023-2028 TIP. The remainder of the TIP process and approval will occur in early FY2023.
In order to ensure that the TIP and Statewide Transportation Improvement Program (STIP) have all the necessary projects
and to enhance proper TIP development, various meetings are held throughout the year between WFRC, UDOT, and UTA
staff, as well individual project meetings throughout the region. WFRC staff also actively participates in monthly roadway
and pavement management UDOT region meetings and the yearly region STIP workshops and the UDOT Commission
workshops. WFRC staff also contact project sponsors and project managers on a regular basis to assist them in the project
development process and minimize project delays.
During the early months of the 2022 federal fiscal year, WFRC staff worked with UDOT and UTA to compile a list of projects
that received funds during the previous fiscal year (2021). This report of federal funds obligated was shared with Trans Com
and the Regional Council. WFRC staff also prepared the annual summary report of CMAQ projects and submitted the report
to UDOT for review and approval. UDOT then forwarded this to FHWA for their review and approval.

PAGE 26

FISCAL YEAR 2022

E. PROJECT COORDINATION AND
SUPPORT
E.1 UDOT ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES
Little Cottonwood Canyon (LCC) EIS
Over the past few years, as a participating agency to the UDOT-led Little Cottonwood Canyon (SR-210) EIS, WFRC
continued to provide assistance to UDOT by participating in agency scoping meetings, public open houses, virtual public
hearings, reviewing alternatives and coordinating with local governments.
After the release of the Draft Alternatives Development and Screening Report during the summer 2020, UDOT spent the
rest of the year gathering, reviewing and evaluating comments. During the spring of 2021 the Draft EIS was prepared and
subsequently released for public comment during the summer of 2021.
As a participating agency to the project, WFRC staff reviewed the Draft EIS documents and submitted comments. Inperson public open houses and a virtual public hearing were held and received an unprecedented number of comments,
clearly illustrating the importance of Little Cottonwood Canyon and S.R. 210 to the community, the variety of stakeholders
involved, and the challenges associated with identifying transportation solutions in the canyon and the communities through
which S.R. 210 passes.
With continued review and analysis of comments to the Draft EIS, a revised version of the Draft EIS was prepared for
additional agency and public comment. During the spring of 2022 WFRC assisted several jurisdictions navigate the
alternatives in the LCC Draft EIS and the projects identified in the WFRC’s Regional Transportation Plan.
Release of the LCC Final EIS is anticipated during the summer of 2022 followed by a Record of Decision (ROD) in the fall.

I-15 Farmington to Salt Lake City EIS
WFRC had the opportunity to coordinate with UDOT project team members to review and comment on the Purpose
and Need document for the I-15 Farmington to Salt Lake City Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). Prior to developing
the Purpose and Need, UDOT hosted two rounds of five Smart Growth Workshops with local communities and key
stakeholders which included walk audits and workshops to evaluate conditions for pedestrian and bicycle use at strategic
points along the project. It is anticipated that WFRC will remain a key stakeholder in the development of this EIS and will
continue to remain engaged with multiple staff members participating and coordinating with the EIS team.

Bangerter Highway Corridor Interchange Environmental Studies
WFRC had the opportunity to work with the UDOT Bangerter Highway Corridor project team to provide input and track
progress on the proposed free-way style changes to three intersections on Bangerter Highway at 13400 South, 9800
South, and 4700 South. UDOT developed draft environmental studies for these proposed freeway style interchanges and
encouraged the public to review and provide feedback for these studies. It is anticipated that WFRC will remain a key
partner in the development of these studies and will continue to remain engaged and coordinating with the UDOT project
team as they look to complete additional environmental studies on the remaining at-grade Bangerter intersections from
4100 South to California Avenue.

PAGE 27

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

E.2 UTA ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES 					
Davis – Salt Lake City Community Connector
Based on technical analysis, coordination with stakeholders, and public outreach, it is recommended that the Davis-SLC
Community Connector project will provide service between Farmington and the University of Utah. In FY22, UTA continued
to coordinate with project partners to revise the definition of the project. It was determined to eliminate exclusive lanes.
The base portion of the project (500 South in Bountiful to 200 South in Salt Lake City) is recommended to have enhanced
stations, and some design work has been completed. On the extensions to Farmington and the University of Utah, there
would be stop improvements rather than stations and no other capital improvements. A small area service planning study
was conducted and microtransit service will open in August 2022 and replace pre-pandemic commuter routes.

Blue Line Alternatives Analysis/Point of the Mountain Transit
Following the transit study that was completed in FY21 identifying a locally preferred alternative (LPA) of Bus Rapid Transit
(BRT) between the FrontRunner Draper Station on the north end and the FrontRunner Lehi Station, some elected officials
called for a re-evaluation of some portions of the work. Much of FY22 has been occupied redefining the project to include
more modes as alternatives in an environmental analysis. During the 2022 Utah Legislative Session, a law was passed to
assign oversight and project management responsibilities for transit capital projects that receive state funding to the Utah
Department of Transportation (UDOT).

PAGE 28

FISCAL YEAR 2022

F. TRAVEL FORECASTING
Wasatch Front Travel Demand Model Enhancements
In collaboration with our partner agencies at Mountainland Association of Governments (MAG), UDOT, and UTA, WFRC
completed work on version 8.3 of the official Wasatch Front Travel Demand Model (TDM) in August 2019. The TDM is
built to run on the Cube Voyager software modeling platform and is used to inform forecasts of future travel patterns and
volumes that help to shape the Regional Transportation Plan, as well as various transportation alternatives analyses and
environmental studies.
In November 2021, WFRC and partners released version 8.3.2 of the TDM. This updated version includes the project
additions and modifications through the third round of amendments to the WFRC and MAG 2019 Regional Transportation
Plans. The 8.3.2 update included other noteworthy enhancements such as: addition of ‘external force’s parameters for
connected and autonomous vehicles, eRetail utilization, and telecommuting; recalibration of transit ridership behavior to the
2019 UTA Onboard Survey; updated transit routes/schedule information and access/egress linkages; recalibration to the
latest road volume information from UDOT; recalculated day or week, seasonal, and truck factors; and workplace Access To
Opportunities metric calculations for free flow travel periods.,
During the remainder of FY22, WFRC continued model development work on the next major TDM release (v.9.0), anticipated
to be released in early FY23.
WFRC continues to work with the region’s travel model users group to apprise consultants, agencies, and researchers of
anticipated new model enhancements and releases. WFRC staff recently participated with UDOT and UTA consultants
selected for EIS and modeling/analysis work for major projects including freeway reconstruction and fixed guideway transit
projects.

Travel Model Coordination
WFRC continued to host the Interagency Model Director (IMD) position that is co-funded by WFRC, UDOT, and MAG and
charged with leading the coordination of model development and application across agencies. WFRC staff participated
actively in monthly meetings of the Interagency Modeling Technical Committee and Interagency Modeling Policy Committee
which meets approximately quarterly. The IMD led development efforts in the WFRC/MAG modeling space and other areas
of the state.
The IMD led the coordination and technical effort to update the statewide traffic analysis zones (TAZs) and travel model
network which received significant updates to align with new and anticipated transportation facilities and land uses.

Ongoing Model Development
Three travel model development projects, funded under addenda to the Joint Projects memorandum between UDOT, UTA,
and MAG continued work. These are:
•

TAZ Boundary Updates - WFRC completed a major overhaul to the TAZ boundaries, improving their alignment
and size relative to recent development, the alignment of new roads and future planned roads, and agreement with
city boundaries. TAZs were added to the Wasatch mountain and canyon areas to prepare for inclusion of these
predominantly recreation areas in the WFRC modeling space. The new TAZ’s will be officially released with the 9.0
version of the travel demand model in Spring of 2023l.

•

Travel Model Network Updates - WFRC updated the travel model network to keep in concurrence with the existing
system and the latest projects included in the draft 2023-2050 RTP. Centroid connectors were edited to ensure
agreement with the additions and updated boundaries of the TAZs.

PAGE 29

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

•

Mode Choice Update - this is a two year project to update the mode choice model within the TDM. WFRC, working
with its contractor, pursued two tracks to this project which focuses on the update of the TDM’s most complex
component, the Mode Choice submodel. Some early elements of the Mode Choice update project were included in the
8.3.2 model release. Still more are expected in v9.0 which will be adopted with the 2023 RTP in FY23. The final and most
substantive Mode Choice updates will be released in a v9.1 model early in the 2027 RTP cycle.

•

Big Data Consultant - WFRC and state transportation agency partners took delivery of a statewide TAZ-level origindestinations dataset through a contract with StreetLight. This dataset will be used in support of the planned 2022/23
Household Travel Survey and has already been used for calibration and validation of the Wasatch Front travel demand
model. Streetlight data was processed for several interactive maps that have been (April 2002 Bike Trip Generation), or
will soon be (July 2022 Small District Trip) shared with stakeholders and the public via WFRC’s Map of the Month series.

Model Application
WFRC continued to provide travel modeling application support to regional road and transit studies in FY22 including the
South Davis County I-15 reconstruction project, the largest single project in both the current TIP and RTP.
Travel modeling support was provided for project evaluation within the in progress 2023-2050 Regional Transportation Plan,
including exploration of external forces and policy change scenarios. This effort leveraged new modeling capabilities within
the v8.3.2 model to explore and reflect potential future impacts of increased telecommuting, connected and autonomous
vehicles, increased and online retail.
WFRC created, released, and/or updated interactive maps related to travel and land use modeling. These include:
•

A statewide traffic volume forecast map (including the new v8.3.2-based forecast) that allows users to interact with
estimates and projections through 2050 together with the official RTP socio-economic forecast and RTP project map.

•

Updated (v8.3.2) Volume-to-Capacity (V/C) ratio interactive map that depicts scenario-specific forecast results for V/C
from the TDM.

•

Updated Access to Opportunities interactive map (July 2022 Map of the Month) that summarizes workplace destination
access using both TDM and land use model results for auto and transit.

Other
WFRC continued to utilize commercially-available vehicle routing application programming interfaces (APIs) to capture travel
speeds for future use in validating the WFTDM and other application areas.
WFRC staff continued to consult with UTA staff in support of use and application of the STOPS model.
“What’s New?” documentation was completed for the v8.3.2 version of the TDM, including extensive validation and
comparison reports.
The Real Estate Market Model (REMM) is WFRC’s land use forecasting tool that supports the development of WFRC and
MAG’s forecasts for population, households, and employment. Activities to enhance REMM are covered in Section G.2

PAGE 30

FISCAL YEAR 2022

G. TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND
SERVICES			
G.1 AIR QUALITY ANALYSIS AND COORDINATION
Conformity
The 2050 WFRC Regional Transportation Plan was approved in May 2019 and there were not any amendments to the RTP
completed in the last fiscal year requiring a conformity analysis. WFRC staff prepared Air Quality Memorandum 40b for the
2023-2028 TIP. Amendment #3 of the RTP and the corresponding Air Quality Memorandum 40 began public comment just
prior to the close of FY21 and was completed and approved in FY22. Air Quality Memorandum 40a for the 2022-2027 TIP
with the same public comment period as Memorandum 40 was also completed in FY22.
WFRC invested significant time creating MySQL code to prepare input data files for MOVES3. The current program uses the
Cube travel demand model program to extract these input files. When completed, the MySQL code will be faster and more
adaptable to coding modifications and improvements in the future.

Technical Support
WFRC continues to support the Utah Division of Air Quality in developing a State Implementation Plan (SIP) addressing
ozone precursor emissions in the Northern Wasatch Front non-attainment area. WFRC provided to DAQ vehicle emission
estimates for 2017 and 2023 to be used with the ozone SIP development.

Coordination
The Interagency Consultation Team (ICT) had five virtual meetings in the past fiscal year - September, November, February,
April, and June. The ICT includes representatives from WFRC, MAG, Cache MPO, DAQ, UDOT, UTA, FHWA, FTA, and
EPA. The ICT meets regularly to consult on air quality issues such as the modeling assumptions to be applied for SIP
development, and review of conformity analysis documents. ICT members found that virtual meetings had the dual benefit
of being more efficient and eliminating unnecessary vehicle emissions.
WFRC staff participated in several committees organized by other agencies that are promoting actions to improve air quality,
such as the Governor’s U-CAIR program and the Utah Clean Air Action Team (CAAT). WFRC also collaborates on air quality
issues by regularly attending meetings of the Utah Air Quality Board.

UDOT Air Quality Coordinator
UDOT provides an Air Quality Coordinator who assists in coordinating transportation and air quality related issues between
the MPO, UDOT, the Division of Air Quality, and the Environmental Protection Agency. The coordinator represents UDOT
at meetings with DAQ and the Interagency Consultation Team. The coordinator also works with the MPO and DAQ in the
development of SIP updates, the CMAQ project selection and review process, and the review of various air quality “hot spot”
project analyses.
During the year UDOT reviewed and issued concurrency reports on conformity determinations prepared by WFRC and sent
these reports to FHWA. UDOT reviewed and concurred with WFRC’s air quality conformity analyses.

PAGE 31

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

G.2 SOCIOECONOMIC AND TRANSPORTATION DATA
WFRC continues to partner with our neighboring MPO, Mountainland Association of Governments (MAG) to develop and
support a shared, regionwide land use model -- the Real Estate Market Model (REMM) that runs on Urban Sim 2.x software
platform. This tool supports WFRC’s official traffic analysis zone-level socioeconomic projections that are packaged with
the WF Travel Demand Model and are also available as Geographic Information System (GIS) layers that can be viewed and
downloaded.
In FY22, The WFRC Analytics group continued implementing recommendations from the August 2019 expert peer review
of REMM and its related processes. In FY20, WFRC staff updated REMM’s source code to version 3.x of the Python
programming language and ported the new and archive code to WFRC Analytics’ public Github repository. In FY22, work
continued to focus on a major effort to update REMM’s base year data to reflect the 2019-20 county tax assessor parcel
database, and creating a more efficient update process is nearing completion.
For the first time, WFRC staff are using an in-house developed module for Urban Sim to assert larger in-process or very likely
future development projects. This “in-the-pipeline” module is being used for developments that have a single-owner, good
capital positioning, and local government support. In addition, a similar “pipeline jobs” capability is being used to assert nonmarket driven employment for large government contract employment increases expected at Hill Air Force Base, which is a
situation where REMM is not capable of accurate job location on its own.
The team also developed automated processes for producing “progression metrics” and graphs and other visualization
techniques that summarize the REMM model’s performance -- at fine geographic scales -- across each model run. A
major breakthrough was made in REMM result visualization through the construction of a custom web map that allows the
household and job distribution forecast to be viewed graphically and geographically at different scales, across any set of
future years, for any socio-economic variable. This effort, which includes a geographic-specific commenting function for
stakeholders, will greatly improve the ability to understand the model’s dynamics and to find forecast issues and make the
appropriate adjustments. WFRC REMM modelers continued to participate in national land use model coordination groups
organized by the National Association of Metropolitan Planning Organizations (AMPO).
In addition, WFRC’s REMM enhancement work included:
•

Continued reprocessing of job location data (count and sector) for 2020 from the Department of Workforce Services
(DWS) unemployment insurance contributor database

•

Renewed statement of compliance with Department of Workforce Services MOU conditions to allow access to this
protected dataset through May of 2025

•

Continued improvement to processes that standardize county assessor tax parcel data that are needed for new 2019
base years and for asserting new development in the 1-3 years since the current base year

•

Continued updates to WFRC’s Generalized Future Land Use (GFLU) layer that compiles and standardizes city and
unincorporated area general plans into a region-wide GIS layer of allowable land uses and residential and commercial
development intensity limits. This layer, together with the updated Wasatch Choice Center boundaries, guides and
constrains future real estate development activity simulated with REMM

•

Continued refinement of the process to inventory all housing units, informed primarily by the Tax Assessor parcel data,by
type, size, value and year built. The first version of the Housing Unit Inventory dataset, proscribed by SB 164 passed
during the 2021 general session of the state legislature, was released as a public facing web map (January 2022 Map of
the Month) in partnership with the county assessors and the Utah Geographic Resource Center (UGRC), the state GIS
office..

PAGE 32

FISCAL YEAR 2022

Other
WFRC staff from Analytics and Long Range Planning facilitated a significant set of boundary adjustments and additions to
the Wasatch Choice Centers layer that was finalized and incorporated into WFRC public-facing maps in FY22 (September
2021 Map of the Month). This updated layer refined the Center areas through a process that looks at the existing build
environment in the GIS parcels, aerial photography, and current general plans (GFLU). Local area maps of the resulting, more
exacting updated layer were sent to WFRC area city planning staff for review and feedback.

G.3 GIS AND DATABASE MANAGEMENT
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) continued to serve WFRC’s organizational and program area goals. WFRC’s Analytics
staff proactively responded to regional planning and data accessibility needs by building and sustaining information
resources and interactive web map applications. GIS staff collaborated with program area staff, external partners, and
stakeholders to visualize anticipated future conditions and deliver resources for decision-making.

Long Range Planning Support
WFRC staff provided significant GIS data and mapping support for the year-3 preparation activities relating to the 20232050 Regional Transportation Plan. For each of the four RTP outreach phases in FY22, interactive maps and detailed
transportation project datasets were prepared by GIS staff. Each interactive map contained custom tools tailored to the
outreach opportunity. Project datasets reflected hundreds of edits, including added, removed, and updated roadway, transit,
and active transportation projects. The transportation project prioritization process was strongly informed by GIS-based
analyses that scored projects based on spatial proximity metrics. Detailed maps were also prepared for virtual stakeholder
and community partner workshops, including a web map displaying the preferred scenario, draft set of transportation
projects for roadway, transit, and active transportation in the forthcoming RTP.
A significant effort was undertaken to refine the boundaries of the “Wasatch Choice Centers” - designated land use areas
adopted as part of the 2019 RTP. Using parcel boundaries and future land use plans, these centers were adjusted and
presented to city planners for review. These changes were accepted by cities, approved by the Regional Council, and
implemented into the Wasatch Choice Poster and Wasatch Choice Interactive Map. Large-format (6’ x 3’) Wasatch Choice
vision map posters, with the updated Center boundaries were provided to each of the primary partner agencies for display.
In addition, GIS support was provided for the Tooele Valley Rural Planning Organization (RPO) long-range plan. Interactive
maps were built to allow for agency comments on the bicycle/pedestrian portion of the plan. A draft bicycle route phasing
map was also prepared for RPO review.

Short Range Planning and Programming Support
GIS support aided in the development and public engagement processes of the annual Transportation Improvement
Program (TIP). During the project application process, reference maps were created for committee presentations and on-site
field reviews for CMAQ, STP, and TAP applications. For the annual draft TIP public comment period, an interactive map was
built to provide a forum for public commenting. Improvements to this year’s map included adding an embedded map view of
the project area and automating the necessary data formatting.

Model Development Support
GIS resources strengthened the reach and impact of WFRC’s models, specifically the travel demand model (TDM) and real
estate market model (REMM). Analytics staff created custom tools and applications to display model inputs and outputs in
new and interesting ways. The traffic congestion forecast map shows modeled future congestion conditions for major roads
in the WFRC area for a variety of time frames. The continuous count station factors map allows the user to display model

PAGE 33

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

factors for various selection options. The special generators map visualizes travel patterns to regional destinations that do not
follow typical modeled traffic patterns. This map incorporated results from StreetLight “big data” zone queries.
For the land use model, REMM, a significant accomplishment in FY22 was the preparation of 2019 base year parcel data for
usage in the model. This update involved scripting automated, GIS data standardization processes and performing manual
reviews. A land use override layer referred to as the “policy layer” was also updated, using the generalized future land use
GIS layer and up-and-coming pipeline projects data as references.
REMM distributes county-level forecasts for population and jobs to the much smaller Traffic Analysis Zones (TAZs). A new
GIS web map was built to allow cities and other stakeholders to explore these forecasts and provide TAZ and city-level
feedback and additional information that will be considered prior to finalizing the forecasts. The new web map greatly
improves the ability for internal and external review, and will facilitate a higher level of engagement possibilities in the
forecasting creation and adoption process.
Another major GIS accomplishment for model development was the creation of a housing unit inventory GIS layer. This
dataset categorizes residential units in the WFRC area by type (ex. single-family, apartment, condo, townhome, etc.), value,
and age, using recent parcel data and county assessor information. Creating this dataset is important as it is required
forREMM. The interactive map’s visualization allows other housing-interested organizations to better understand existing
housing units and their characteristics over time, at regional, city, and neighborhood levels, including buffers around rail
transit stations.

Government Affairs / Communications
WFRC staff expanded their reach in GIS in regional government affairs and strategic communications. With the help of the
long-range planning staff, WFRC GIS staff built a resource and web page focused on equity. This resource highlights the
region’s history, effects of past policies, and ongoing planning efforts that aim for a more equitable future. It contains several
interactive maps with historical data, demographic data, and supporting reference datasets.
In the government affairs space, GIS staff prepared several maps in support of transportation-related legislation and
initiatives. Two sets of maps were built for transit station area planning bills. These resources were widely distributed and
referenced by WFRC and its partners.
In Utah, regional bicycle and pedestrian needs have recently attracted additional attention. A road/route safety map was
prepared to approximate the comfort level a typical adult user would experience on a bicycle. This map used a level of traffic
stress dataset that was derived from GIS analysis of road characteristics. Also, WFRC staff created a unique ride tracking
map for a regional bike ride event that was shared at the event and committee meetings.

Other GIS Accomplishments
•

Interactive and static maps to help explain the new planning requirements established by the State legislature for cities
with transit stations.

•

Continued monthly “Map of the Month” newsletter series distributed to thousands of WFRC stakeholders.Topics
included: Access to Opportunities, Transportation and Land Use Connection projects, Wasatch Choice Centers update,
TIP Public Comment map, UTA’s 5 year transit plan, Wasatch Front Housing Inventory, RTP Preferred Scenario map,
HB462 station area planning requirements, bicycle trip pattern, and bike safety.

•

Supported WFRC’s Transportation and Land Use Connection program by providing data and mapping support

•

Built a tool for Weber County to identify possible locations for affordable housing.

•

Added 13 maps to the maps.wfrc.org map gallery.

PAGE 34

FISCAL YEAR 2022

G.4 TECHNICAL SUPPORT TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
WFRC fulfilled requests for service throughout FY2022. Support was provided to help in various subarea and corridor
studies. Traffic and socioeconomic information and forecasts were provided to interested persons and agencies.
Assistance was provided on an as-needed basis to local municipalities, state agencies, school districts, and others. As
stated in the Work Program, priority was given to services that assisted in implementation of supporting plans and local
projects.
The WFRC staff attended Council of Governments and similar meetings in each county, providing information as requested
and also seeking input on various plans and programs. WFRC staff contributed to discussions on transportation needs
and priorities in various committees, such as Chamber of Commerce committees.

G.5 TOOELE VALLEY RURAL PLANNING ORGANIZATION
WFRC staff worked with the Tooele Valley RPO on updating the long range active transportation plan for the Valley. Staff
also facilitated dialogue with UTA and UDOT about UTA’s 5-year transit plan and UDOT’s Northeast Area study. The RPO
made recommendations regarding CMAQ funding UDOT allocates to the non-attainment portion of Tooele County. Staff
facilitated discussion regarding near-term priorities and additional funding opportunities available through UDOT and via new
discretionary grants resulting from the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.

G.6 MORGAN COUNTY-OGDEN VALLEY RURAL PLANNING ORGANIZATION
In FY21, the Morgan County-Ogden Valley RPO voted to reform as the Morgan County RPO, with membership from Morgan
County and Morgan City. WFRC, Morgan County, and Morgan City are in the process of establishing the reformed RPO.
However, throughout FY22, staff has explored funding opportunities with Morgan County and Morgan City and local option
sales tax options with Morgan County. Morgan County adopted two new local option sales taxes in late FY22. WFRC
staff has also conducted outreach to several groups regarding trail and active transportation facility implementation and is
involved in both the Morgan County Active Transportation Advisory Board and the Morgan County Active Transportation
Implementation Plan. WFRC staff continues to help facilitate dialogue about emerging rural areas.

PAGE 35

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

H. PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT
In fiscal year 2022, Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) staff led and participated in numerous successful public
involvement efforts including, but not limited to, the following.

Formal Public Comment Periods
A formal public comment period was held for the Draft 2022-2027 Transportation Improvement Program (TIP). WFRC placed
public notices in local newspapers as well as distributed emails to interested people and groups, posted information on the
WFRC website, and generated paid and organic social media ads to notify the public of the opportunity to comment. All
comments were carefully detailed, summarized, responded to, and submitted to WFRC for consideration, prior to adoption
of the 2022-2027 TIP.

Amendment#3 to the 2019-2050 RTP
A formal public comment opportunity was opened up during Regional Growth Committee meetings for Amendment #3 to
the 2019-2050 RTP. Level 2 amendments - Board Modifications types of projects – do not require a 30-day comment period.
Amendment #3 contains a Level 3 - Full Amendment type of project - and its 30-day comment period started June 26, 2021
and ended July 31, 2021.

Stakeholder Outreach Meetings and Workshops
WFRC sponsored two in-person open houses for the Draft 2022-2027 TIP in July of 2021. Representatives from WFRC,
UDOT, and UTA were available to answer questions about the TIP projects.
In addition, WFRC held ten Wasatch Choice Vision Implementation workshops for each part of the region with transportation
partners, key stakeholders, and local elected officials and staff to explore land use, economic development, and
transportation challenges and opportunities in each area. These workshops also discussed changes to state law that affect
both requirements in general plans and eligibility for transportation funding. Representatives from WFRC, ULCT, UDOT, and
UTA were on hand to answer any questions regarding the Vision.

Partner Events, Conferences, and Conventions
WFRC both attended and engaged virtually or in-person at events, conferences and conventions hosted by our partners,
including the American Planning Association (APA) Utah, Utah Association of Counties (UAC), Utah League of Cities and
Towns (ULCT), UDOT, the National Association of Regional Councils (NARC), and others. Information about the Wasatch
Choice Vision, Regional Transportation Plan (RTP), and/or Utah’s Unified Transportation Plan were shared at the various
conferences and conventions.

Local Elected Officials
WFRC staff members made formal presentations regarding the Wasatch Choice Vision, plans, programs, and/ or other
transportation related issues to the respective county councils of governments in Davis, Salt Lake, and Weber counties. In
addition, WFRC representatives met with local elected officials in southern Box Elder, Morgan, and Tooele counties. Upon
request, WFRC staff provided technical support and information to local elected officials regarding transportation planning
and investments.

PAGE 36

FISCAL YEAR 2022

Utah State Legislature
WFRC staff members made formal and informal presentations regarding transportation related issues to state legislative
committees. In addition, WFRC staff provided technical support and information to state policy makers as they considered
additional funding for transportation investments and changes to existing transportation and land-use policies.

Congressional Delegation
WFRC staff met with and advised the members and staff of Utah’s congressional delegation on transportation, landuse, and planning related issues. Specifically, WFRC staff reiterated the importance of a timely, sustainable, and longterm transportation reauthorization bill by providing the delegation with Utah’s shared transportation reauthorization
principles. Additionally, WFRC was able to communicate and coordinate with the delegation and staff on the state and local
implementation of the federal Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.

Ongoing Presentation and Working Group Opportunities
WFRC staff participates in a variety of events sponsored by partners or other relevant organizations. Where there is
alignment between WFRC’s mission and message and an organization’s planned schedule of activities, WFRC staff have
presented on a variety of topics, ranging from high-level policy topics around transportation and community planning/
visioning to specific agency activities, such as the Regional Transportation Plan or specific funding topics as examples. In
addition, staff have sponsored WFRC-led small group engagement efforts such as ongoing meetings with the Wasatch
Choice Partners and sub-regional meetings to engage local elected officials and staff in specific planning efforts

Online Engagement Tools
WFRC staff successfully leveraged online engagement tools to educate the public and to solicit public comment on its
plans and initiatives. For example, WFRC staff worked with UDOT to obtain GIS data for the TIP projects, creating an online
interactive map that showcased the projects. WFRC also created a public comment layer so comments could be tied directly
to the projects in a mapping environment.

Ongoing Website Updates
WFRC staff continues to provide subject-matter expertise to local governments and other stakeholders, including making
a variety of resources and content available via wfrc.org. Of particular note, many resources tied to the regional Wasatch
Choice Vision have been added over the course of the past year (see section G.3). Additionally, numerous general,
committee, vision, plan, and program publications, as well as links to studies and data, are available in PDF and/or interactive
formats on the website. WFRC also launched a new Federal Funding Opportunities webpage to inform community leaders
and their staff of funding opportunities from the new Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.

Social Media and Email Campaigns
In an effort to communicate the needs and benefits of continued, regional effort to implement the Wasatch Choice Vision,
including its core strategies, WFRC staff provides regular, relevant messaging and links to resources via its social media
channels. These channels include Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, YouTube, and Constant Contact.
During fiscal year 2022, WFRC began uploading all Council and committee meeting videos to its YouTube channel, crosslinking them to the Council and committee respective webpage for ondemand viewing.
WFRC also prepares and distributes a monthly e-newsletter to a list of more than 3,000 recipients. This furthers the
messaging around quality of life and continues to build relationships with cities, counties, transportation partners,
community-based organizations, and the private sector. Supplementing the newsletter is a Government Affairs newsletter
that is sent when the Utah State Legislature is in session, during the Summer Interim Session, and when important
information is available to share.
PAGE 37

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

Additionally, WFRC launched a new email campaign around Federal Funding Opportunities, derived in part from the
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act. This campaign sends communications to a targeted list about new opportunities,
what they are, their timelines, and how to apply.

Media Relations
WFRC staff worked with various media outlets to keep the public informed of opportunities to give input on WFRC’s planning
efforts and to tell the story of positive outcomes in the region. During fiscal year 2022, media ran dozens of news stories
regarding the following topics:
•

Wasatch Choice Vision

•

Regional Transportation Plan

•

Transportation Improvement Program

•

Transportation funding

•

Pandemic impacts on growth and other behaviors

•

Bicycle safety

•

Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act

These media outlets included the Salt Lake Tribune, Deseret News, KUER NPR, Salt Lake City Weekly, Standard Examiner,
KSL Newsradio, Utah Business, Building Salt Lake, and Fox 13, to name a few. . WFRC staff have tracked and documented
all media and public outreach efforts.

PAGE 38

FISCAL YEAR 2022

I. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
I.1 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT (CDBG) PROGRAM
The WFRC staff continued to administer the State Housing and Urban Development Division’s federal CDBG program for
Tooele, Weber (excluding Ogden City), and Morgan Counties. During FY2022, WFRC staff completed the 2022 annual
update of the region’s Consolidated Plan which sets goals and reviews the outcomes of the previous year’s goals, and helps
inform the five-year Consolidated Plan that was updated in FY2020.
Staff worked closely with member jurisdictions in order to gain their feedback and ensure a better understanding of local
needs for the Plan update. Staff also held introductory and grantee workshops to familiarize applicants with the CDBG
program and application and contract requirements in order to ensure compliance with state and federal rules and
regulations. Assistance was provided to prospective applicants, primarily cities and counties, during the CDBG application
process, project development, survey development, and public hearings. Applicant projects were then reviewed to ensure
Compliance.
Staff provided administrative assistance to the region’s Regional Review Committee (RRC). Staff worked to ensure the
Committee’s membership was up to date, members were informed and actively participated in the CDBG program, policy,
application process, etc. For example, the Committee is responsible for: reviewing projects to ensure they are eligible and
meet regional goals and objectives, updating the region’s rating and ranking criteria, updating regional goals, and ensuring
project funding levels are consistent with the region’s appropriation.
Lastly, in response to COVID-19, the CDBG Small Cities program received additional funding through the CARES Act. With
leadership from the RRC, WFRC staff worked to administer those funds in an effort to mitigate impacts of COVID-19 and
continued to do so in FY2022.

I.2 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Staff administered the Wasatch Front Economic Development District (WFEDD) in order to better support the region’s
economic vitality and remain eligible for administrative funding from the U.S. Economic Development Administration (EDA).
Staff began implementation of strategies and objectives contained within the region’s 5-year 2018-2023 Comprehensive
Economic Development Strategy (CEDS). The CEDS brings together public and private sectors to create an economic
roadmap that strengthens regional economies and integrates economic development plans, programs, and activities with the
Wasatch Choice for 2050 Vision, the long-range transportation plan, active transportation, amenities and fiscal sustainability.
Staff worked with local governments, elected officials, universities and area chambers of commerce organizations to align
transportation, land use decisions and economic development in order to improve access to opportunities for residents in
the region.

The District’s annual objectives for 2022 are as follows:
1.
2.

Advance, update, and report on the 2018-2023 Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy;
Update and 2018-2023 Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy to include a more robust resilience plan to
include not just natural disasters but resilience related to COVID;
3. Promote Wasatch Choice 2050 as a coordinated growth, quality of life, and economic development strategy;
4. Integrate state, regional, and local transportation decisions with economic development efforts to improve access
between workforce, housing, and jobs; and,
5. Inform state, regional, and local stakeholders about economic development plans and strategies.

PAGE 39

UNIFIED PLANNING WORK PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT

Integration of Economic Development with Transportation and Land Use Efforts
Since 2014, the WFEDD has continued to build on the work to implement and integrate economic development strategies
into WFRC’s long and short-range initiatives including the Wasatch Choice Vision, Regional Transportation Plan, and
Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy.
The 2018-2023 CEDS focuses on four key strategies
1.
2.
3.
4.

Link development with transportation and other infrastructure;
Create fiscally sustainable places;
Provide amenities; and,
Attract and retain businesses and encourage innovation.

•

Strategy 1 focuses on coordinating transportation, infrastructure, and land-use decisions to enhance household’s
access to jobs and educational opportunities and employers’ access to the workforce and customers.

•

Strategy 2 focuses on revenues and expenses that are balanced and sustainable for households, communities, and the
region.

•

Strategy 3 focuses on maintaining quality of life elements that attract skilled labor by encouraging more walkable cities,
open space preservation, and improved air and water quality.

•

Strategy 4 focuses on supporting and encouraging business retention, job creation, workforce development, and
innovation by partnering and information sharing. The implementation of all four strategies relies on effective partnerships
and continues to promote the importance of centered development.

Administer the Economic Development District and Staff the Committees
Staff administered the EDA grant and managed the Board and Strategy Committee membership, meetings, and awareness.
Staff coordinated, integrated, and collaborated with the region’s members and partners to achieve economies of scale,
leverage resources, share data and analysis, and promote regional collaboration of strategic goals and objectives. COVID-19
changed the dynamic for regional economic development and the economic opportunities that were lost due to service and
retail being affected considerably more than other industries. Conversations with partners became more important than ever
before to come together and develop implementable steps to move our economy forward, including making sure everyone
has access to opportunities.
Staff spent significant time in 2020 and the first half of 2021 with local government partners on coordinated EDA applications
to maximize and leverage the $1.5B in CARES Act funding EDA received, which are now complete. Seven communities used
this money to help small businesses with education and resilience awareness as well as updating local economic development
strategies.. These funds were one time money and the EDA CARES Act funding was closed as of June 30, 2022. These funds
assisted local communities to modify their economic development strategies to be more resilient, targeted, and equitable, and
to enhance the resiliency of the region's Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy. An internal annual update to the
2018-2023 CEDS was also completed along with a more robust economic resilience section for the CEDS document. The
process for the 5-year CEDS will begin in September 2022 and will be completed by September 2023.
.

PAGE 40

