MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON TUESDAY, JULY 20, 2021, IN
THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS, 1020 EAST PIONEER ROAD, DRAPER, UTAH



PRESENT:        Mayor Troy K. Walker, and Councilmembers Mike Green (by phone), Tasha
                Lowery, Fred Lowry, Cal Roberts, and Marsha Vawdrey

EXCUSED:

STAFF PRESENT:        David Dobbins, City Manager; Mike Barker, City Attorney; Scott Cooley,
                      City Engineer; Hazel Dunsmore, Human Resource Director; John
                      Eining, Police Chief; Bret Millburn, Assistant City Manager; Rhett
                      Ogden, Recreation Director; Laura Oscarson, City Recorder; Linda
                      Peterson, Communications Director; Clint Smith, Fire Chief; Jake
                      Sorensen, IT; and Bob Wylie, Finance Director

_____________________________________________________________

Study Session

1.0    Presentation: Update from Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District on Water
       Supply Issues and Proposed Property Tax – A. Reed Gibby

1.1    Reed Gibby, Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District, reported on the proposed
       property tax increase for 2021. He said that the public hearing about the property
       tax increase was scheduled for August 11, 2021, at 6:00 p.m. He continued that the
       service area was only growing slightly by area, but was growing a lot by population.
       The total revenue for the proposed budget for FY 2021-2022 was $84.5 million. The
       property tax accounts for about 27% of those revenues. Additional revenue from
       the tax increase amounted to about $1.8 million, or a 9% increase in property tax
       revenues. The increase in the property tax rate was just over 2%. The property tax
       increase for a typical home comes out to about $8.18 per year given that the
       average property tax was $86. If the property tax was ten times that, the increase
       would be about $82 a year. He said that one of the challenges for the district was
       making sure that it could deliver water to all of the residents within its boundaries.
       He said that there were some major projects to ensure this was possible. The
       treatment plant needed to be expanded. That was a $65 million project. A new
       storage reservoir needed to be installed for $23 million. A new booster pump
       station would cost about $10 million. In addition to these large projects, several
       smaller projects would total about $80 million in expenses.




                                                                                 Page 1 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
      Mr. Gibby commented that he had been impressed with the district and state as a
      whole on the amount of storage and reservoirs.



1.2   Councilmember T. Lowery asked where the public meeting was going to be held for
      the property tax public hearing.

      Alan Packard, Assistant General Manager of the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy
      District, said that it would be held at the district offices at 8215 South 1300 West in
      West Jordan.

1.3   Mayor Walker asked how long it had been since the water conservancy had a
      property tax increase and how much the increase was.

      Mr. Packard said the last increase, between 5 and 10%, was in 2018.



1.4   Mr. Packard provided some information on the current water conditions of the
      district in response to the 2021 drought. He noted the response actions for 2021
      listed on the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District’s website. He said that
      although the district had good supplies for this year and won’t have to employ any
      mandatory restrictions, they were encouraging the public to follow Governor Cox’s
      direction to limit outdoor watering to no more than twice per week in the northern
      part of the state, to limit outdoor watering to outside the heat of the day, and to use
      water as efficiently as possible. He said that any water conserved this year could be
      held in storage by the district by next year. This would allow them to carry over
      water to prevent an emergency in 2022 if there was another poor snowpack year.

      He then talked about how the district was preparing for future droughts: a long-
      term vision, diversified supplies, mitigation planning, and conservation priority. The
      district just completed a formal drought contingency plan, was looking to add
      additional water supplies, and host the Utah Water Saver’s Website. He said that
      there were several incentives offered to residents and businesses to make their
      outside landscaping more water-wise.

1.5   Councilmember T. Lowery said that she had heard from a Draper resident that the
      grants to do the Flip Your Strip Program were limited and that they had all been
      used up.

      Mr. Packard said that he was not aware of that. He said that if he got the name of
      the resident, he would follow up afterward. He then displayed the service area, the
      most rapidly growing part of the Salt Lake Valley. He said that the district has been
      communicating with users that water was a finite resource and that it was

                                                                                  Page 2 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
      important to link development and economic growth with water resources to be
      conservation-minded. He said that the district was interested in working
      collaboratively with cities so that water development was no longer reactionary. He
      said that there was not enough water to support how things had been done
      historically.

1.6   Councilmember Roberts asked how market dynamics impacted the price of water
      given that it was a finite resource and commodity. Mr. Packard said that the limited
      nature of water did show up in price. He explained that two years ago the Jordan
      Valley Water Conservancy Board put in place a policy to identify conditions in which
      new lands outside of the current area might be able to annex into Jordan Valley’s
      boundaries to gain access to water service. The policy put into place stated that
      those new lands would have to pay the Block 2 water price based on the most
      expensive and most recent supply. The Block 2 rate, compared to the Block 1 rate
      based on historic supplies, is almost double the cost.

      In the future, additional water supplies will only get more expensive. He said that
      cheap water had been developed. There would be pressure to raise rates over time.

      Mr. Packard said that another important consideration that the district was trying to
      keep in mind was the Great Salt Lake ecosystem. He said that with 60% of that
      water delivered by the district was used outside, indoor wastewater was treated,
      returned to the Jordan River, and would make its way into the Great Salt Lake. The
      Great Salt Lake, however, was in a troubling downtrend with serious environmental
      consequences if that continues.

      He then displayed a chart of the district’s future supplies. He noted that the yellow
      dotted line in the chart signified what the per capita water use would currently be if
      it matched the usage in 2000. The graph showed that use was significantly under
      that line, demonstrating conservation. Future projections also suggested the need
      for future progress towards conservation to be able to stay within the water
      available. He noted that the blue area represented the water that would become
      available through Strawberry Reservoir, there were a couple of groundwater
      projects, and the red bars demonstrated the Bear River Development Project. He
      said that it was a state project for which Jordan Valley was a major recipient.

      In closing, Mr. Packard promoted Jordan Valley’s efficiency standards that they hope
      all member cities will promote through ordinances on new development. For
      residential areas, they want to encourage the use of WaterSense indoor fixtures,
      that there is no grass in park strips for new construction, and a limit of no more
      than 35% turf as a percentage of the landscaped area in front and side yards. In
      commercial settings, the district proposes a turf limit of 20% of the landscaped area

                                                                                Page 3 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
      unless there was active recreation. Lawns should not be used in areas narrower
      than 8 feet.

1.7   Mayor Walker followed up on a comment made earlier about how 60% of water use
      was for outside purposes with 40% used for inside purposes and that he wanted to
      flip that ratio.

      Mr. Packard said to flip that ratio was probably ambitious. He said that for new
      construction, he felt that it was within the district’s reach to get that use to be 50-50
      through reducing park strips and installing drip irrigation.

      Mayor Walker asked if he had any data on the impact of existing homes converting.
      Mr. Packard clarified that the yellow demand line in the graph assumed that all of its
      member cities adopted the conservation standards. He said that if the cities did not,
      then the water usage would push up against the green line which was much closer
      to the total supply, and in some places exceeded it. He said that the yellow demand
      line also assumed a modest amount of retrofitting which would be funded by the
      district through incentives.

      Mayor Walker said that what could be motivating in a campaign for conservation
      was that the demand represented by the yellow line could be reduced by a more
      substantial number of homes retrofitting their yards with xeriscaping. He said that
      he was looking for something they could do as a City to motivate people to do
      something now that would be substantial.

1.8   Councilmember Roberts asked if water was scarce, why that was not reflected in
      pricing.

      Mr. Packard said that Jordan Valley’s charge was based on a cost of service basis.
      He said that they could not artificially make up a high price. The price had to be tied
      back to what it cost to provide the service. He said that historically, they had
      enjoyed less expensive developed water supplies because the Federal Government
      built the Central Utah Project or the Provo River Project, the Deer Creek Dam. This
      enabled pretty low-cost water.

      Councilmember Roberts asked if the pricing did not consider supply and the fact
      that water was finite, constrained, and limited. He said that he was always confused
      when they talked about conservation efforts why they did not just raise the price of
      the water to reduce consumption.

      Mr. Packard said that they set their rates either based on how much it costs to
      develop their supplies or purchase the water from others. He said that the most
      recent supplies were more expensive and that would be reflected in the price, about
      double the cost, to newly added lands. Jordan Valley operated a small retail system

                                                                                   Page 4 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
      in parts of the service area. He said that retail rates started at $1.50 per 1,000
      gallons for its first pricing tier, and escalated to about $4.00 per 1,000 gallons by its
      fourth tier. He said that if they were just to increase the rate to $10 they would get
      sued. They didn’t want to spend all their money in court.

      Councilmember Roberts summarized that the price of water was not set based on
      demand, but on the cost to obtain and deliver the water. This meant that water did
      not operate as a market.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked about the tax increase. He said that the last
      increase in 2018 was between 4-5% and that the new increase was almost double
      what had normally been done. He asked how that could adequately be explained to
      residents.

      Mr. Packard said that the previous tax increases had been in the neighborhood of 5-
      10%. He said that the district tried to make sure they were not going after a double-
      digit increase. However, there were compelling needs over the next 2-3 years that
      led them to want to push the upper limit of what the district was usually
      comfortable in seeking.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that WaterPro had been looking into recycling the
      secondary water. He asked what kind of movement was happening with that by the
      Jordan Valley District.

      Mr. Packard said they were working closely with WaterPro and the Central Utah
      Water Conservancy District and they hope to provide some funding for a recycling
      project at the Jordan Basin Reclamation Facility. He said that funding was
      dependent upon federal appropriations that had been lacking over the last several
      years. Utah did not expect any imminent new federal dollars. WaterPro had
      decided that they were prepared to frontend the project in the hopes of getting
      reimbursed in the future through the Central Utah Water Conservancy District and
      federal funding.

1.9   Councilmember Roberts said that he was trying to understand the property tax
      increase. He summarized that the property tax increase resulting in an additional
      $1.8 million in revenues was to fund the large capital projects that were needed.
      However, the total amount needed for those projects was $180 million. He felt like
      that was a huge disparity. He wondered if the money was being used for those
      projects or was covering inflation or increases in operational costs.

      Mr. Packard said that the money would be used to help with debt service for the
      projects. He explained that as they build the $180 million in projects over the next
      five years, they would issue bonds, increasing their annual debt obligation. The $1.8

                                                                                   Page 5 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
       million would supplement other water sales revenues to pay that increased debt
       service. He said that when they issue bonds, they can get good ratings from the
       rating agency if a portion of the revenue is steady and predictable. Water sales
       revenue can be pretty volatile. If they can have about 25% of their total revenue be
       predictable from property taxes, they can get a higher bond rating, and lower
       interest rates that are better for customers’ overall cost.

1.10   Councilmember Vawdrey clarified that the slides that outlined what cities could do
       to help were just for new construction. Mr. Packard said that the Jordan Valley
       Water Efficiency Standards, that the district had adopted and was seeking each of its
       member cities to adopt, are only applicable to new construction.

1.11   Councilmember T. Lowery said that she had heard a lot of concerns about the
       Great Salt Lake and how when it dries up there would be arsenic and all sorts of
       terrible things. She asked if Mr. Packard could speak to how the district plans to
       mitigate that or refill the lake in some way.

       Mr. Packard returned to the WaterPro recycling idea. He said that if they were
       successful in recycling they would take water that was headed to the Great Salt Lake
       and would fully consume it through outdoor irrigation. He said that the district was
       going to encourage WaterPro to take some of their Utah Lake Water that was less
       reliable in quantity and quality and release it to the Jordan River. Another area that
       the District was working on was to shift that 60-40 split to closer to 50-50 because
       any water used indoors goes to the Great Salt Lake. Water used outdoors, very little
       would make it to the Great Salt Lake. Minimizing turf made a big difference in more
       water making it to the Great Salt Lake. Studies show that this can save more than
       half the water used in an outdoor environment.

1.12   Councilmember F. Lowry said that those standards only applied to new
       construction. To Mayor Walker’s earlier question, he asked if there was some sort of
       program to have existing landscapes redesigned to meet that new standard. Mr.
       Packard said that there were existing programs. The first program was called Flip
       Your Strip where the district will provide up to $1.25 per square foot if someone
       removes turf and replaces it with mulch and some plantings. He said that there was
       a LocalScapes rewards program that extends outside the park strip. These
       programs were funded at a level that was not widespread. He said that these
       programs were at a pilot scale, perhaps 100 a year. He said that was progress, but
       not substantial yet.

       Councilmember T. Lowery said that she felt like that was an important program and
       that the Council set aside money to start a similar program in Draper. She said that
       she was glad to hear that the district was working with WaterPro on groundwater.

                                                                                Page 6 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
      She said that was a significant concern: the lack of the Jordan River refilling the
      Great Salt Lake. She said that she understood the importance of the program, but
      that she did not want to see the lake deplete.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that reduction in the lake levels could also impact the
      lake effect that impacts the continued ability to get snowstorms. Mr. Packard said
      that it could be a negative spiral and vicious cycle.

2.0   Discussion: Internal Accessory Dwelling Units (IADU) Options- Jennifer Jastremsky
      and Todd Draper

2.1   Jen Jastremsky, Senior Planner, said that the previous time staff were before the
      Council they provided an overview of what the new state law required, as well as
      some options on how Draper could respond. Since then, staff has looked at some
      maps of the zoning districts in Draper, road widths, and other mechanisms the City
      could use to delineate where IADUs might and might not be permitted. She wanted
      to share what staff found, as well as some potential regulations so that staff could
      create a proper ordinance to bring forth to the Planning Commission and City
      Council for review.

      Ms. Jastremsky said that state law permits cities to restrict IADUs in 25% of the area
      zoned as residential. The first mechanism they looked at to establish these
      restrictions were single-family dwelling lots less than 6,000 square feet. This was a
      restriction allowed in the state law and did not count towards the 25%.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked the average lot size of townhomes. Ms. Jastremsky
      said that townhomes were not included in IADUs because the IADUs only included
      single-family detached residences. Next, she displayed a map of single-family
      dwelling lots on private streets. The width of the street was not looked at, just if it
      was private or public. 5.1% of residentially owned properties were on private
      streets. Staff then looked at single-family dwelling lots located on public streets with
      a right-of-way less than 60 feet wide. Most of SunCrest and South Mountain fell
      within that category, as well as some CSD and RSD zones, and Master Planned
      communities. Staff also looked at private streets less than 26 feet in width. These
      only accounted for 1.2% of residentially zoned areas. When staff looked at
      combining these mechanisms––the 6,000 square foot lot, public streets less than 60’
      wide, and all private streets––they were still under 20% of the City area zoned
      residential.

      She was unsure if there were other mechanisms that the Council would like staff to
      explore, or if after seeing visually what these mechanisms looked like if they wanted
      staff to scrap some of them. She also displayed the locations of current detached
      accessory dwelling units (DADUs) that were currently allowed in the Draper City

                                                                                 Page 7 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
      Municipal Code (DCMC). She said that the City would need to modify the code for
      DADUs with the addition of IADUs. She said that they could modify the code to
      restrict DADUs on properties under 12,000 square feet.

2.2   Councilmember F. Lowry clarified that the map of the shaded areas with the
      different mechanisms showed all the places that IADUs could be restricted and that
      this area was about 20%, under the allowed 25% by the state.

      Ms. Jastremsky said that was correct. She noted that the maps did include South
      Mountain and SunCrest. She said that although the new state law would apply to
      South Mountain and SunCrest, the new code would not because they were vested
      under the old zoning laws that were in effect when they were brought into Draper.
      However, if they created an ADU permit, the old codes did include ADUs which
      allowed the City to require permits in those areas.

2.3   Todd Draper said that the area presented based on lot size, street widths and types
      were 19.2% and included lots less than 6,000 square feet. Staff did not believe that
      those lots counted towards the allowed 25%.

2.4   Mr. Draper then talked about the regulations for the IADUs that staff suggested the
      City adopt in an ordinance. These regulations included:

      a.     IADUs had to fit within the existing footprint of the home and that there was
      only one IADU per lot.
      b.     Parking could not be tandem behind other parking. It had to be readily
      available.
      c.     When an IADU was added in place of an existing garage, that parking had to
      be replaced.
      d.     IADUs had to meet health, building, and fire safety codes.
      e.     IADUs could not be constructed in a way that changed the appearance of the
      primary dwelling.

      Proposed limitations on IADUs included:

      a.     That a resident could only have one ADU, either one detached or one
             internal, and not both.
      b.     The basic restriction on lots less than 6,000 square feet.
      c.     That IADUs cannot be in mobile homes.
      d.     That IADUs cannot be built in residences with failing septic systems.


      One of the last issues that staff was looking for feedback on was the owner-
      occupancy requirements. He said that state law requires it for IADUs. However,

                                                                              Page 8 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
      there was a question concerning DADUs. It seemed that it was implied, although
      not specifically stated in Draper’s current ordinance that the primary dwellings of
      DADUs had to be owner-occupied.

      Councilmember Roberts said that in the spirit of what they were trying to do, he
      would support clarifying the language and being explicit that a primary dwelling
      needed to be owner-occupied to have an external dwelling unit.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked if it was conceivable that someone could have a
      DADU and an IADU.

2.5   Ms. Jastremsky said that the staff was still evaluating that question. She explained
      that the proposed draft included language that if an owner had an internal unit they
      did not qualify for a detached unit. They were still working with legal, however, if
      that could be reversed. State law said that everyone could have an IADU. She said
      that she did not think that they could say that if someone already had a DADU, they
      couldn’t also have an IADU.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that if that was not possible in places like South
      Mountain and SunCrest that were superseded by a development agreement, she
      felt that they needed to look carefully if those communities were being included in
      the 20%. They appeared to be a large portion of the total area cities were allowed
      to restrict.

      Ms. Jastremsky said that they were. She continued that the other component of the
      ADUs was permitting. Staff needed to create a land-use permit that people could
      apply for to get their IADU. This would allow the City to ensure the owner complied
      with the new code, for example, they had the extra parking space, and replace
      parking if a garage was converted. She said that for areas like South Mountain and
      SunCrest, even if the new code did not apply, state law still did. This would mean
      that the permit would give the City the ability to make sure that residents in those
      areas were complying with state law. A second component would be business
      licensing that would allow the City to monitor ownership on an annual basis, as well
      as take in additional fees for rentals. She said that the current business licensing
      code only required a business license if someone had a multi-family dwelling like an
      apartment building, or if they had four or more rental dwellings. She said this
      would be a change in the business license code to require licenses for ADUs. Staff
      had not looked at the short-term rental question because state law says that IADUs
      are only permissible for rentals of 30 days or more.


                                                                               Page 9 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
      Councilmember F. Lowry said that if they clarified those homes had to be owner-
      occupied, what would happen with existing homes that were not owner-occupied
      and being used as an ADU. He asked if they would get grandfathered in.

      David Dobbins, City Manager, said that they would not get grandfathered in because
      they didn’t have any legal status. He said that staff would have to choose to go after
      and enforce residences that don’t meet the owner-occupied qualification.

2.6   Councilmember Roberts asked how they caught/prevented if a residence started
      owner-occupied and already had a business license, but then moved and rented out
      the space they moved from.

      Ms. Jastremsky said that would be a violation of their land use permit for an IADU.
      The business license was something that had to be renewed annually, forcing an
      owner to come back in. This would provide staff with mailing addresses to keep
      track of if they changed. Councilmember Roberts said that he felt that would be
      easy to get around. He said that it was going to be tough to catch that. Ms.
      Jastremsky said that code enforcement had its challenges and dishonesty was one
      of them.

      Councilmember Roberts noted that the Council had talked with staff previously
      about the need for additional code enforcement officers to have the manpower to
      go out and enforce. He wondered if they had a sense of how much this would cost.

      Ms. Jastremsky said she had spoken with Hazel Dunsmore, Human Resources
      Director. She said that she was not sure of the level of staffing needed at this point.
      The wildcard was that initially there would be a lot of work involved in getting
      properties into compliance. It was hard to gauge what the needs would be after the
      initial push. Staff had talked with Ms. Dunsmore about employee costs for a part-
      time versus full-time employee, as well as what over-time would look like for
      existing staff.

      Councilmember Roberts asked about the role of marshaling evidence to
      demonstrate that someone was not in compliance. He wondered if noncompliance
      was mainly going to come in through neighboring residents, or if there would be a
      protocol of standards that had to be met before the City would issue a citation.

      Ms. Jastremsky said that Draper’s code enforcement was currently on a complaint
      basis. They did not have the manpower to go looking for violations. When noticed,
      a resident has a period of time to come into compliance. If someone comes in for a

                                                                               Page 10 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
      permit, staff does not typically take further action while a resident works to come
      into compliance. If someone does not try to comply, then citations and fines can be
      issued by the City.

      Mr. Dobbins said that a lot of staff time goes into following up on complaints. He
      provided a recent example of a code enforcement officer who responded to a
      complaint, the resident answered and, after becoming aware that they needed one,
      came in and got a permit. That was the best-case scenario. It was the situations
      where a code enforcement officer goes out and the resident never answered or said
      that they did not need a permit that became more time consuming and staff had to
      jump into the legal side of things to get information a resident does not voluntarily
      give.

      He also talked about situations when someone is told they need to come into
      compliance who then points out a neighbor, who points out a neighbor, making the
      City the entity that becomes the bad guy. On the flip side, when a code
      enforcement officer goes out, a resident wants to know who complained, what had
      been submitted, and all of the correspondence. This also takes staff time to provide
      that information to the person who was reported.

      Because of all of this, Mr. Dobbins estimated that enforcing ADUs would be a
      significant cost to the City. It could be overwhelming to put a single case together.
      He said that it could be three or four full-time employees just to deal with those who
      don’t currently have permits. Councilmember F. Lowry noted that staff had worked
      hard on this and that they were doing a great job.

2.7   Councilmember Roberts said that if they pulled South Mountain and SunCrest from
      the map, that the total restricted area was a lot less than the allowed 25%. He
      wondered what other restrictions could apply to get to the full 25%.
      Councilmember F. Lowry said he liked the proposed map. Councilmember
      Vawdrey said that they could not enforce those restrictions in South Mountain and
      SunCrest.

      Ms. Jastremsky said they were still looking into what requirements they could
      enforce in South Mountain and SunCrest. At a minimum, the City could require that
      they come through and get the business license and land use permit.
      Councilmember Vawdrey asked if the licensing process required that the ADUs be
      owner-occupied. Ms. Jastremsky said that state law required that the ADUs be
      owner-occupied.


                                                                              Page 11 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
      Councilmember T. Lowery asked if that was only if the areas were within the 25% or
      regardless. She pointed out that SunCrest and South Mountain made it on the list in
      the first place because they were places with tight streets that would make it
      difficult for emergency vehicles to pass through. Because of this, it would be good
      that they stay there for that reason. She suggested that they might need to revisit
      this when they had a better understanding of where they stood legally.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that the development agreement for SunCrest and
      South Mountain did not include the right to have an ADU. Mike Barker, City
      Attorney, said that no one in those neighborhoods was vested with this use.
      Councilmember F. Lowry said that suggested that they should be able to exclude
      ADUs in those areas. It was asked what the legal hold-up was. Mr. Barker agreed
      that because they didn’t have the right to have ADUs now, it should be fine, subject
      to the final review.

2.8   Mayor Walker returned to the question brought up about DADUs and specifying if
      they could be occupied by a City resident or needed to be owner-occupied. He
      wondered if staff needed direction from the Council on this issue. Ms. Jastremsky
      said that she was just looking for clarification if the Council wanted the same
      language for DADUs as for IADUs. She said that the current code for DADUs says
      City residency, not actual occupancy in the primary dwelling.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that he felt that with DADUs that the primary
      residence should be owner-occupied with the DADU on the same property.
      Councilmember T. Lowery said that she also felt like it should be the same. Mayor
      Walker agreed because otherwise, an owner could rent out the primary dwelling
      and DADU while living somewhere else in the City.

3.0   Council/Manager Reports

3.1   Councilmember F. Lowry said that he had received complaints about cars that have
      modified mufflers that are exceeding the sound ordinance. He had responded to
      the resident that the Council would discuss the issue to see what options they had
      to enforce the sound ordinance.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that a group seemed to be racing them at night up
      and down Traverse Ridge Road and all over the City.

      Chief John Eining said that there wasn’t an easy answer. As long as the cars were
      modified legally––showing that they were not modified legally was problematic for

                                                                             Page 12 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
      the department––there wasn’t much that they could do. He said that the sound of a
      bullet bike, car, or racers was loud. He said that the department met with a group
      of people from the Sandy area that border the City’s limits to talk about the crowd
      that gathered at Macey’s regularly. Noise complaints about the engines were not
      something that the Police Department could enforce. They could enforce racing.
      He said that a bullet bike going from first to third gear was going to make a lot of
      noise and sound like it was racing when in reality it probably wasn’t going at
      excessive speeds. He said that the Council might be able to set a decibel limit in the
      code, and then record the sound made by these types of vehicles with a decibel
      meter. He was unsure if there was a law that restricted that. However, this would
      be challenging to know what to enforce. Did they target specific vehicles? How
      would they handle a big truck that accelerated causing a big noise and emitted a
      bunch of exhaust?

3.2   Councilmember T. Lowery asked about the teenagers dumping the bags of water
      off the bridge. She asked Chief Eining if he had been getting a lot of reports about
      that.

      Chief Eining said that he took great exception to water balloons flying through his
      car window. He said that it was summertime and kids were doing what kids do. He
      said that in addition to water balloons, they’d had other objects thrown from the
      bridges. There had been property damage because of rocks. Those are things the
      police do take seriously. If they can catch kids throwing rocks, they will be cited. He
      said that the behavior was not something that the department tolerated.

      After Councilmember T. Lowery voiced that it was a safety concern, Chief Eining
      agreed and said that if they had suspect information they followed up on it to cite
      the kids. He stressed that it was critically important that people report the incident
      when it occurred. He said that it wasn’t beneficial for them to get online and tell
      about an incident the night or days after and expect the department to have a
      legitimate response. He said that the department’s best success was when they
      could catch the kids still in the area or running from the area.

3.3   Councilmember F. Lowry said that he had a cyclist report that there were sections
      of the pavement in the bike lane on the west side of 1300 East and 13500 South,
      near the new residential development, that had not been patched or re-paved
      creating a hazard. Scott Cooley, Public Works Director, said that he would find the
      location and take care of it.




                                                                               Page 13 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
3.4   Mayor Walker had noticed that the City had gotten behind on some of its weeding in
      more visible areas. He asked if the issue was finding people to work. Rhett Ogden,
      Parks and Recreation Director, said yes. He said that the mayor was correct that
      some places were not as weed-free as in the past. He said that they hired a
      contractor yesterday to do some weeding and spraying to make up for some of the
      shortfalls in staff. He said that if Mayor Walker had specific places he was
      concerned about staff would address them.

      Mayor Walker said that it was a couple of roundabouts that were xeriscaped like the
      one by the post office. He said that he had also noticed some of the elm trees
      taking over in some of the City’s flower beds. He also brought up that they had
      been talking about all of the Flip the Strip efforts for water conservation. He said
      that if they did move to the water-wise landscaping they would have to put extra
      effort in to keep up with the weeding. He asked if staff were interested in the
      Council trying to find some money in addition to what Jordan Valley was providing to
      support more xeriscaping.

      Mr. Dobbins said that the Council had already approved $250,000 for staff to use as
      matching funds with Jordan Valley. He said that WaterPro said that they were in as
      well. Between the three entities, he felt like it would be good to identify some parks
      that have park strips that the City could flip and use as an example to the
      community.

      Mayor Walker asked if there was any interest in finding some funds to support some
      matching grants for residents to flip their yards. He said that when you look at the
      yellow consumption line in the chart presented by Mr. Packard from the Jordan
      Valley Water Conservation District and the fact that it didn’t account for changing
      any current landscaping, that a huge dent in water conservation could be made by
      supporting changing current landscaping to water-wise practices.

      Mr. Dobbins asked that the Council give him some time to talk with Jordan Valley.
      He said that it was his understanding that they had not run out of funds from their
      programs.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked about the area on 13800 South where the rocks
      were installed. He asked if residents were responsible for the maintenance of those
      areas. He said that it was pretty rough around there, too. Mr. Cooley said that
      there were the same issues on 300 East and 1300 East. He said that the
      maintenance was the owner’s responsibility, but they didn’t always do it.


                                                                              Page 14 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
      Councilmember T. Lowery said that the little white building that Councilmember
      Green pushed so hard to have moved and was turned into a little park could also
      use a little weeding, too.

      Councilmember F. Lowry said that the Draper Youth Council had been hurting to
      get enough hours. He said that he knew that there was a resident who helped clean
      up one of the roundabouts. He wondered if the Draper Youth Council could help
      with some of this.

      Mr. Ogden said that they did use the Youth Council three weeks ago. They came in
      quite a force up to Autumn Crest Park and made a big difference. A couple of staff
      worked alongside them. He said they were truly awesome. He said that if it was
      something they would be willing to do again, staff would certainly welcome that
      help.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that when she posted about the Youth Council’s
      efforts she did have several people say that they would be willing to work as a group
      to do another project like that. She suggested that the Parks Department push
      something out to help organize some neighborhood park efforts. Councilmember F.
      Lowry suggested a neighborhood adopt your park program.

3.5   Mayor Walker said that he had talked with Chief Eining about instances where some
      concentrated enforcement at places like hotels that appeared to be rented by the
      hour would be beneficial. He said that if the Council was okay with it, he would like
      to put together a small task force that could respond to these areas of the City
      where sundry behavior was going on.

      Chief Eining said that for the department these sorts of responses could only occur
      on an overtime basis. He said that the patrol staff was in a constant manning
      situation, meaning that anytime that someone was off on vacation or a staff
      member called in sick, they used overtime to use those spaces. There was not
      enough staff to have someone off a shift without having to fill it with overtime. The
      only way to address the issues brought up by the Mayor was to increase the
      overtime. He said that he was not opposed to that and it was something the Police
      Department wanted to try. He said that from his perspective, his only concern was
      the work-life balance he imposes on his employees; If they were working a lot of
      overtime to fill regular shifts, it makes it difficult to add more overtime for them to
      do tasks like traffic enforcement and to hit the high crime areas that do need
      attention. He said that there was a particular location that was especially


                                                                                Page 15 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
       problematic and that the amount of crime generated at that location was pretty
       astounding.

4.0    Closed Session - By Motion, the Draper City Council may temporarily recess the
       regular meeting and convene in a closed session to discuss the character,
       professional competence, or physical or mental health of an individual, pending or
       reasonably imminent litigation, or the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property,
       as provided by UCA 52-4-205.

4.1    Closed session was not needed.

Business Session

1.0    Call to Order: Mayor Troy K. Walker

2.0    Thought/Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance

2.1    Pastor Nate offered the prayer and Todd Draper led the Pledge of Allegiance.

3.0    Public Comments

3.1   Renea Wiegand, resident, wanted to thank everyone who was involved in saving Deer
      Ridge by signing the conservation easement and returning it to open space. She said
      that the area was important to the neighboring families, generations to come, and for
      wildlife.

4.0    Consent Items
       a.    Approval of June 15, 2021, City Council Meeting
       b.    Approval of June 23, 2021, Special City Council Meeting Minutes.
       c.    Approval of Resolution #21-21, amending Sections 5080, 5100, 6040, 7030 of
             the Personnel Policy and Adopting Section 10450. Staff: Hazel Dunsmore
       d.    Approval of Resolution #21-33, reappointing Alan Kirton, Katie Ovard-Smith,
             Nate Shipp to the Draper City Special Event Arena Committee.
       e.    Approval of Resolution #21-35, reappointing Tab Bingham as an alternate
             member of the Draper City Planning Commission.
       f.    Approval of Resolution #21-37, appointing Linda Richins, Stan Renderos,
             Michael Barnhill, and Nancy Nichols as members of the Draper City Historic
             Preservation Commission.
       g.    Approval of Resolution #21-38, increasing the terms of the members of the
             Draper City Diversity and Inclusion Advisory Committee.

                                                                              Page 16 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
      h.     Approval of Resolution #21-39, appointing Jan Short, Anneke Cannon, and
             Stephanie Sherrell to the Draper City Special Event Arena Committee.

4.1   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve the Consent Items. Councilmember T.
      Lowery seconded the motion.

4.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

5.0   Public Hearing: Providing Local Consent for a Beer-only Restaurant Alcohol License
      for Siempre LLC

5.1   Travis DeJong, Business License Official, said that this application was from Siempre
      LLC who ran the restaurant at the South Mountain Golf Course. The people who ran
      the restaurant before had the same alcohol license, but this was not transferable.

      Beer-only restaurants have to be 300’ by the shortest pedestrian route from the
      nearest community location or 200’ measured in a straight line. The restaurant was
      more than 3,000’ from the community location. He noted that as stated in the code,
      the City cannot put restrictions on the number of beer-only licenses granted in the
      City.

5.2   Mayor Walker clarified that they specifically only wanted to serve beer. This was not
      a mistake. They didn’t want wine. Mr. DeJong said that they just wanted to serve
      beer.

5.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor Walker
      closed the public hearing.

5.4   Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve the Local Consent for a Beer-only
      Restaurant Alcohol License for Siempre, LLC. Councilmember F. Lowry seconded
      the motion.

5.5   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

6.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1494 Olson Residence Zoning Map Amendment
      (Legislative Action), on the request of Jarod Hall, for approval of a Zoning Map
      Amendment in the RA1 zone regarding a rezone on the property from the RA1
      (Residential Agricultural, 40,000 square foot lot minimum) zoning designation to the

                                                                             Page 17 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
      RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot lot minimum size) zoning
      designation. The property is located at 13764 S & 13770 S Fort Street.

6.1   Travis Van Ekelenburg, Planner, said that the subject properties were currently
      zoned residential, low-medium density, and were zoned RA1. The applicant
      requested to rezone the smaller property to RA2 to fix a problem when the
      properties were illegally subdivided. He said that their legal description extended
      the property line 15’. Because the properties were parcels and not part of the
      subdivision, the property line could be adjusted. By doing this, both properties are
      in better legal situations for construction. Lastly, he noted that the home was built
      in 1971. He said that there was a positive recommendation from the Planning
      Commission with a vote of 5-0.

      Councilmember T. Lowery asked if the action taken would bring the property into
      compliance. Mr. Van Ekelenburg said that was correct and that the applicant would
      move the property line to match the legal description in the ordinance.

6.2   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor Walker
      closed the public hearing.

6.3   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Ordinance #1494, Olson Residence
      Zoning Map Amendment. Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

6.4   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

7.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1496, BNSN Zoning Map Amendment (Legislative
      Action), on the request of Brian Newberry representing BNSN Investments LLC, a
      Zoning Map Amendment request from A5 (Agricultural, 5-acre minimum lot size) to
      RA2 (Residential Agricultural, 20,000 square foot minimum lot size) for
      approximately 1.48 acres located at approximately 12775 South 1600 East (Costanza
      Way).

7.1   Todd Draper, Planner, explained that this was a zoning map amendment for BNSN
      LLC. He displayed a map of the approximate location of the property on Costanza
      Way. The property was located in the low-medium density land use designation,
      consistent with the requested RA2 zone. The current zone was A5, agriculture five-
      acre minimum. Several other properties in the vicinity were zoned A5, but none
      were five acres in size. He displayed some photos of the property that showed that
      the property had a private dirt lane and the existing home. The applicant indicated

                                                                              Page 18 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
      that the reason they requested the rezone was to allow them to build a larger home
      on the property than is currently there. There were different limitations in the A5
      zone and the RA2 zone on the size of the home that can be built. The Planning
      Commission made a positive recommendation with a vote of 5-0.

7.2   Councilmember T. Lowery asked if the A5 zoning was a hold back from when it
      used to be five acres. Mr. Draper wasn’t sure. He said the property was located in
      an older portion of the City and still had older, private rights-of-way that had not
      been paved.

7.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing.

7.4   Chris Noorda asked if the residents would be required to pave the dirt road.

7.5   Chad Evans said that the area was a unique place in Draper. He invited the Council
      to drive down the dirt roads. He said that there was a group of neighbors that
      worked together to plan maintenance and improvements for the dirt road. He said
      that residents appreciate the area. Folks can see rabbits, horses, and chickens. It
      was a real place of peace with connections through a Draper trail.

7.6   Mayor Walker closed the public hearing.

7.7   Mr. Draper said that at this point this was just a request for changing the zoning
      map. It would not trigger anything concerning improvements. Future development
      could. He said that it might be a better question for Engineering if paving the road
      would be required when one house was replaced with a different home. He said
      that he didn’t think that Engineering would. However, if they were to later
      subdivide, it would require that the road come into compliance.

7.8   Councilmember Vawdrey moved to approve Ordinance #1496, BNSN Zoning Map
      Amendment. Councilmember Roberts seconded the motion.

7.9   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

8.0   Public Hearing: Ordinance #1497, City Initiated State Law Changes Text Amendment
      No. 2 (Legislative Action), on the request of Draper City for a Text Amendment to
      amend portions of Titles 9 and 17 of Draper City Municipal Code. This application is
      known as the City Initiated State Law Changes Text Amendment No. 2.


                                                                              Page 19 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
8.1   Mr. Draper explained that this was the second round of changes to DCMC that the
      City needed to make regarding changes in state law in the 2021 legislative session.
      He said these changes not only involved issues from the initial legislative session but
      a special session and other small changes that staff felt were needed. Proposed
      changes, reviewed by the Planning Commission who forward approval with a vote of
      5-0 included:

      a.     Adding a definition for business day,
      b.     Specifications on what can be requested as part of a business application,
      c.     Removal of the design standards of single-family homes,
      d.     Applying private drive right-of-way standards to two-family dwellings that
             previously only applied to single-family homes,
      e.     Clarity around fencing requirements,
      f.     A revision of code that outlined sidewalk requirements,
      g.     Changes to the amenities section of the code to make clear that amenities
             would be offered as one amenity per 50 dwelling units, as well as expanding
             the types of amenities,

      Concerning the removal of design standards, Mr. Draper explained that, according
      to state law, cities could no longer regulate the exterior design and architectural
      details of single-family and two-family dwellings.

      Mr. Dobbins elaborated that in Draper homes were typically designed in a way that
      they looked great. However, if someone wanted to design something that was ugly
      architecture, it was not something that the City could have a say in. People can
      design homes however they want.

      Councilmember T. Lowery clarified that was not the case in the historic town center.
      Mr. Dobbins said that was correct. He said that sometimes a neighbor might call in
      and say that they don’t like how a newly built home looked and ask what the City
      could do about it. State law now made it clear that there is nothing that cities can
      do.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if that applied to homeowners’ associations that
      might be a subdivision that has created its design standards. Mr. Dobbins said that
      an HOA might be able to do something.

      Mr. Draper said that if a subdivision was allowed based on a development
      agreement that granted special densities, the City could include design standards in
      the development agreement.

                                                                               Page 20 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
8.2   Councilmember F. Lowry said that he appreciated staff looking at the code and
      bringing the City into compliance.

8.3   Mayor Walker opened the public hearing. No one came forward so Mayor Walker
      closed the public hearing.

8.4   Councilmember F. Lowry moved to approve Ordinance #1497, City Initiated State
      Law Changes Text Amendment No. 2. Councilmember Roberts seconded the
      motion.

8.5   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
      Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

9.0   Action Item: Resolution #21-41, a resolution of the City of Draper regarding the
      inclusion of property in the Deer Ridge Area into the Traverse Range Conservation
      Easement.

9.1   Mr. Dobbins explained that the displayed map was of the property that the City
      purchased from Zions Bank on which the City put a conservation easement. He
      noted there was a piece of property commonly known as the Deer Ridge Area, that
      was left out of the original Traverse Range Conservation Easement. In a previous
      discussion around what to do with this portion of the property, it was originally left
      out for some type of development. The latest direction of the Council was to retain
      10 acres in the area for development for a single-family home. Then, the Council
      gave staff the direction to place all of the property within the Traverse Range
      Conservation Easement. This resolution would start that process. It did not put the
      property in the conservation easement. The property was roughly 259 acres. He
      said that some of the acreage was in both counties. Depending on which county
      you asked, the legal descriptions were different and outlined different acreages. If
      the resolution was approved at the meeting the next steps included:

      1.     Work with Salt Lake County to amend the existing easement to include the
             Deer Ridge property.
      2.     Prepare a legal description. Because the property was in two counties, the
             legal description would vary.
      3.     Update the baseline document to identify conservation values and existing
             conditions of the property.
             a.     Existing conditions include City-owned water tanks and water lines
             that provide water to SunCrest residents, other utility lines, and a dirt road.

                                                                                Page 21 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
      4.     Identify future uses:
             a.      Trails, trailheads, parking lots, and restrooms.
             b.      Passive recreation such as off-leash dog areas, disc golf, etc.
             c.      Picnic tables and shelters
             d.      Paving the existing dirt road to allow access to trailheads and the
                     water tanks.

      Councilmember F. Lowry asked if Salt Lake County could hold the easement even
      though it was outside of the county. Mr. Dobbins said that they could. A good
      portion of the property was already in Utah County and held within the Salt Lake
      County easement. He noted that Mayor Walker did a lot of work to make this
      happen. It was an atypical arrangement.

      Mayor Walker asked if the easement could include fire protection measures. Mr.
      Dobbins said that there were water lines to accommodate fire hydrants. He said
      that the current easement did allow for fire suppression.

      Mayor Walker said that they should look into paving the road but keeping the road
      locked to residential vehicle access. He said that he thought that this was a great
      move that he’d been in favor of for a long time. He said that although he
      appreciated efforts to develop some portion of the land to recover some of the
      City’s cost, he felt like this was hard to compete with the value of the parcel as open
      space, especially given that more open space cannot be created as they go along.
      He felt as though this provided an important buffer to future commercial
      developments. He said that what Draper had done regarding its open spaces was a
      big selling point for companies coming into the Point. He felt that ultimately, it
      would pay off more than if they sold a few acres now.

      Mr. Dobbins said that PluralSight had an onsite bike shop. He said that when
      Draper was trying to get them in the City, that was one of the attractive amenities
      for them; Employees could take the mountain bike out of the office and go ride and
      come back to work.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that this move did pull the open space a little closer
      to PluralSight and where some of the new development would be. She hoped that
      there would be some trail additions to make the area more accessible.

      Mayor Walker asked that the map of all of the open space be displayed. He said
      that there were not many cities in the country that had preserved this much land.


                                                                               Page 22 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
      He said that it was a substantial resource for everyone and investment in the quality
      of life.

      Councilmember T. Lowery said that she felt like there was a long tradition of this in
      Draper. She said that she felt like they needed to thank people like Councilmember
      Vawdrey who was on the original committee to save the 2,000 acres in the canyon.
      She felt as though they also needed to thank Mr. Ogden for his work on showing the
      need for more open space. The trail counters that Parks and Recreation put out
      demonstrated that trail encounters had more than doubled. She noted that the
      Corner Canyon Open Space had more users than some state parks.

      Mr. Dobbins said that Parks and Recreation had just finished the Telegraph
      extension. He told the Council that if they had not been on it, they should. It was
      some of the most unbelievably beautiful property that had not been accessed.

      Councilmember Roberts said that one of the residents in the area had commented
      that he thought this might be some of the most valuable land in the county. He said
      that might have been true, but that some things were priceless. He felt like this was
      a great step to build on Draper’s legacy of preserving open spaces. They don’t make
      it anymore.

      Mayor Walker said that if you look at the South edge of the property, Lehi City had
      gotten active at trail building. This was a great way to tie into their trail and open
      space efforts. He said that it would be quite amazing what can be done on the trail
      up there.

      Councilmember Roberts asked how this compared to surrounding cities like Alpine
      and Lehi regarding opportunities and actions for open space acquisition. Mr.
      Dobbins said that when the property was for sale by Zions Bank, Draper went to
      Highland, Alpine, and Utah County to see if they wanted to share in purchasing the
      property. He and the Mayor were essentially run out of their buildings because they
      said that it was not the role of the government to preserve open spaces. He said
      that he could not think of a City that had done something comparable. He said that
      the 200-plus acres the Council could set aside were larger than any park in the
      entire valley.

      Councilmember Green said that he remembered that day that he and the Mayor
      drove through the area. He said that it didn’t feel like they needed to move forward
      on the development project. He fully supported maintaining this beauty.


                                                                               Page 23 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
9.2    Councilmember T. Lowery moved to approve Resolution #21-41, including property
       in the Deer Ridge Area into the Traverse Range Conservation Easement.
       Councilmember Green seconded the motion.

9.3    A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
       Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

10.0   Adjournment

10.1   Councilmember Green moved to adjourn the meeting. Councilmember T. Lowery
       seconded the motion.

10.2   A roll call vote was taken with Councilmembers Green, Lowery, Lowry, Roberts, and
       Vawdrey, voting in favor. The motion passed unanimously.

10.3   The meeting adjourned at 7:43 p.m.




                                                                            Page 24 of 24
Draper City Council Meeting Minutes – Approved August 3, 2021
