MINUTES OF THE DRAPER CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2024, IN THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS

PARTICIPATING: Andrew Adams, Chair
               Lisa Fowler, Vice-Chair
               Commission Member Susan Nixon
               Commission Member Kendra Shirey
               Alternate Commission Member Laura Fidler
               Alternate Commission Member Christine Green

EXCUSED:             Commission Member Gary Ogden
                     Commission Member Mary Squire

DID NOT SIT:         Alternate Commission Member Shivam Shah

STAFF:               Jennifer Jastremsky, Community Development Director
                     Todd Draper, Planning Manager
                     Spencer DuShane, City Attorney
                     Brien Maxfield, Senior Engineering Manager
                     Todd Taylor, City Planner III
                     Maryann Pickering, City Planner III
                     Nick Whittaker, City Planner
                     Amie Salazar, Office Manager

6:30 PM Business Meeting

Chair Andrew Adams called the meeting to order at 6:30 PM and welcomed those present.

1.     Items for Commission Consideration.

      A.      Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for August 8,
              2024. (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to APPROVE the minutes of August 8, 2024, as
submitted.

Second: Commissioner Fowler seconded the motion.

Vote on motion: 5-0 in favor.


        Commissioner     Yes    No    Abstained     Not Participating      Absent
           Fowler         x
           Squire                                                            x
           Ogden                                                             x
           Nixon           x
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 10, 2024
Page 2

             Shirey          x
        Fidler, Alternate    x
        Shah, Alternate                                         x
        Green, Alternate     x


       B.      Action Item: Approve Planning Commission Meeting Minutes for August 22,
               2024, as submitted. (Administrative Action)

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to APPROVE the minutes of August 22, 2024.

Second: Commissioner Shirey seconded the motion.

Vote on motion: 5-0 in favor


        Commissioner        Yes    No    Abstained      Not Participating       Absent
             Fowler          x
             Squire                                                                x
             Ogden                                                                 x
             Nixon           x
             Shirey          x
        Fidler, Alternate    x
        Shah, Alternate                                         x
        Green, Alternate     x


       C.      Public Hearing: Patterson Subdivision Plat Amendment.
               (Administrative Action)
               On the request of Brett Jansson, a Subdivision Plat Amendment request on
               approximately 0.92 acres, located at approximately 1571 E. Patterson Lane.
               Known as application 2024-0297-SUB, Staff contact: Maryann Pickering, (801)
               576-6391, maryann.pickering@draperutah.gov.

City Planner, Maryann Pickering presented the Staff Report and stated that the two subject
properties are located near Boulter Street and Porter Rockwell Trail. The Land Use category is
Residential Low-Medium Density and the zoning is RA-2 Single Family. The subdivision plat
was approved in April of 2024. Because it is a minor subdivision, the plat did not come before the
Planning Commission and was instead approved by the Zoning Administrator. The applicant later
realized that some of the easements would not work with his home design and submitted the Plat
Amendment to rectify the issue. The amendment affects Lots 2 and 3 of the subdivision and will
amend the retention basins located in the northwest corner of each property. The City Engineer
received the amendment and indicated that, although narrower, they will still meet the minimum
standards. No other changes were proposed. Notices were sent to nearby property owners and no
public comments were received.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 10, 2024
Page 3


The applicant, Brett Jansson, stated that the retention ponds will still be three times larger than
required but the dimensions will change so they are narrower and deeper.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to APPROVE the Subdivision Plat Amendment as
requested by Brett Janson, Application 2024-0297-SUB, subject to the following:

Finding:

       1.      There is good cause for the amendment, and no public street or municipal
               utility easement will be vacated or amended.

Requirements:

       1.      All requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
               Planning, and Fire Divisions shall be satisfied throughout the development of
               the site and the construction of all buildings on the site, including permitting.

       2.      All requirements of the geotechnical report shall be satisfied throughout the
               development of the site and the construction of all buildings on the site.

       3.      If the subdivision plat amendment is not recorded within one (1) year from the
               date of approval or construction of the required landscaping and
               infrastructure has not commenced, such approval shall be null and void. This
               time period may be extended by the Planning Commission for up to one
               additional six (6) month period for good cause shown. The subdivider must
               petition in writing for an extension prior to the expiration of the original one
               (1) year. See DCMC Section 17-9-070.


Second: Commissioner Nixon seconded the motion.

Vote on motion: 5-0 in favor.


        Commissioner        Yes    No     Abstained     Not Participating       Absent
             Fowler          x
             Squire                                                                 x
             Ogden                                                                  x
             Nixon           x
             Shirey          x
        Fidler, Alternate    x
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 10, 2024
Page 4

        Shah, Alternate                                           x
        Green, Alternate     x


       D.      Public Hearing: Paul Nagi Custom Design, LLC. Home Occupation
               Conditional Use Permit (Administrative Action)
               On behalf of Paul Nagi, representing Paul Nagi Custom Designs, a request for a
               Home Occupation Conditional Use Permit to operate a home occupation that
               provides alterations and measurements for custom clothing, on approximately 0.10
               acres, located at 266 E Bellis Ct. Known as application 2024-0286-USE, Staff
               Contact: Nick Whittaker, (801) 576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@Draperutah.gov.

City Planner, Nick Whittaker presented the Staff Report and stated that the property is currently
designated Residential High Density on the Land Use Map and is zoned RM-2 Multiple Family
Residential. A Site Plan was presented that included the designated customer parking space and
floor plan. Customers will enter the home and go into the basement workspace. For custom
clothing, Mr. Nagi takes measurements and sends them to his partner in Thailand, who makes the
garments. Alterations are performed onsite. One parking space will be left open on the driveway
for customers who come for scheduled appointments. Potential impacts will be customers coming
to the home, customer vehicle parking, and related traffic. Proposed mitigation measures included:

       1.      All customer appointments must be made in advance online.

       2.      Limiting appointments to one customer at a time.

       3.      Providing one designated off-street parking stall for customer vehicles.

       4.      Limiting business hours to between 11:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.

Mr. Whittaker presented photographs of the exterior of the home, dedicated customer parking stall,
and the interior workspace.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Fowler, Mr. Whittaker clarified that the parking
rules for Home Occupation Businesses include providing an off-street parking option, which
Mr. Nagi has identified in his plans. Commissioner Fowler stated that there are parking issues
with almost every Home Occupation request and asked if there would still be adequate parking for
all residents in the home. City Attorney, Spencer Dushane indicated that there is no set standard
because it is a Conditional Use. With some past Home Occupation Permit requests, there were
more customers or more frequent customers. In those cases, the Planning Commission sought to
ensure that customers did not occupy the required residential stalls. This specific business will
have one customer at a time and one designated parking stall. It was clarified that the
Homeowner’s Association would enforce their Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions
(“CC&Rs”) regarding the business as that is not a City responsibility.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 10, 2024
Page 5

Notices were sent to neighboring property owners. One letter was received from the Homeowners
Association (“HOA”), which was forwarded to the Planning Commission. The letter referred to a
U-Haul truck that is frequently in front of the home. Mr. Whittaker stated that he had not spoken
with Mr. Nagi about the specific concerns raised but he was provided with a copy. There were no
open compliance issues with the property.

The applicant, Paul Nagi stated that U-Hauls were at his home twice in the past year to move things
between his home and a trade show. He does not carry inventory. He takes measurements for
garments that are made in Thailand and does alterations at the location. In response to a question
from Chair Adams, Mr. Nagi confirmed that the alterations business is already in operation. There
will be one dedicated parking space for customers. In response to a question from Commissioner
Fowler, Mr. Nagi stated that clients will not be allowed to park on the street. Walk-ins are not
allowed. The business is by appointment only and he only sees one client at a time. Commissioner
Fowler referred to the letter from the HOA, which states that the applicant is operating accounting,
tailoring, and importing businesses from his home. Mr. Nagi stated that his wife has an accounting
business and works remotely. The import business is the garments from Thailand, and only one
or two garments are imported at a time.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

Wayne Hansen reported that he is Mr. Nagi’s neighbor, and he was present to express his support
for the application. He disagreed with the statement from the HOA and stated that it was just one
person’s opinion. The HOA did not ask for input from residents. Mr. Nagi has been a great
neighbor. His front yard is immaculate and there has never been an issue with traffic. Mr. Hansen
clarified that they are allowed to park in the street during daylight hours.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Shirey moved to APPROVE the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Paul Nagi representing Paul Nagi Custom Designs LLC, Application
2024-0286-USE based on the following:

Finding:

       1.      The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC
               Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the
               imposition of reasonable conditions.

Conditions:

        1.     All requirements of the Draper City Engineering, Public Works, Building,
               Planning, and Fire Divisions shall be satisfied prior to issuance of a Business
               License.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 10, 2024
Page 6

        2.    The hours of operation shall be limited to Monday through Friday between
              11:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.

        3.    Customers coming to the home shall be by appointment only, with only one (1)
              customer being scheduled at a time.

        4.    All customer appointments shall be made in advance online.

        5.    Customers shall be directed to park on-site in the one (1) designated parking
              space on the driveway as shown on the approved site plan and not on the street.

        6.    The applicant shall maintain an active business license for as long as the
              business is in operation from the residence.

Second: Commissioner Fowler seconded the motion.

Vote on motion: 5-0 in favor


       Commissioner        Yes    No    Abstained     Not Participating      Absent
            Fowler          x
            Squire                                                              x
            Ogden                                                               x
            Nixon           x
            Shirey          x
       Fidler, Alternate    x
       Shah, Alternate                                        x
       Green, Alternate     x


       E.     Public Hearing: Warhorse Ranch Development Agreement and Zoning Map
              Amendment.
              (Legislative Item)
              Linda Asay Richins Living Trust, Jess and Valerie Maxfield, and Karen Evans,
              request for approval of a Development Agreement and Zoning Map Amendment
              for approximately 4.44 acres located at 12741 South and 12751 South Costanza
              Way. Known as Application No. 2024-0045-DA and 2024-0248-MA. Staff
              Contact: Todd Taylor, 801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov.

City Planner, Todd Taylor presented the Staff Report and displayed City and aerial maps showing
the subject property and two existing homes on Costanza Way. The site is currently designated
Residential Low-Medium Density and zoned A-5 Agricultural. The request was to rezone the
property to RA-2, Residential Agricultural. The Master Site Plan included with the Development
Agreement provided a conceptual plan of how the two existing parcels could be split into a
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 10, 2024
Page 7

maximum of four separate lots. The purpose of the Development Agreement was to exempt a
portion of Costanza Way from the City’s private right-of-way width standards and remove the
requirement for a sidewalk.

Mr. Taylor reported that Staff became aware that a deed document was recorded in September,
which created two parcels out of one in violation of Subdivision Ordinance. The Development
Agreement would not correct that issue, but if approved would allow it to be corrected. The
Development Agreement documents would be updated to reflect that there would be three parcels,
as well as update any parcel numbers that were received from the County. In response to a question
raised, Mr. Taylor clarified that one parcel has been split into two lots and the second parcel will
remain intact at present. A maximum of four lots would be allowed with the rezoning. It was
noted that Mr. DuShane reviewed and approved the Development Agreement.

The applicant, Chad Evans was present with his wife Karen, his daughter Valerie Maxfield, and
their friend Linda Richins, who owns one of the homes. His daughter owns the 1.09 acres that is
currently a pasture. Mrs. Evans owns the last parcel. They have worked for 18 months to come
up with a plan that preserves the area but also allows them to care for the properties now and in
the future. Currently, the pasture area is difficult to maintain. They love being on the trail. It is a
beautiful area, and it is restricted so that it cannot be divided into smaller lots in the future. The
buffer zones expand the 4.44 acres to approximately 6.5 acres. He was grateful for the opportunity
to do this and indicated that Staff had been very patient and helpful in the process.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing.

Valerie Maxfield reported that she and her husband desire to build a home on one of the future
lots. They are interested in the area because they love the outdoors. Her husband enjoys mountain
biking and skiing, and she loves hiking. They have three young children, and it is a wonderful
area that allows you to be outdoors year-round. They love the area and the neighbors. It feels like
home, and it is the place they want to raise their children, grow old, and enjoy life.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

In response to a question posed by Chair Adams, Mr. Taylor indicated that the lot lines shown in
the submitted Concept Plan were subject to change. City Staff and the Planning Commission will
review a Subdivision Plat once it is submitted to determine if it meets all requirements. The
Development Agreement would allow an avenue to correct the violation that occurred when the
two parcels were recorded in September. The property is currently zoned for five-acre lots, so
rezoning is required to create smaller parcels. Access to Constanza Way limits the street width,
which requires the exception outlined in the Development Agreement. The Fire Department
reviewed and approved the profile for the 31-foot road width specified in the agreement.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the Development Agreement, as requested by Chad Evans, representing the Vern
LeLand Richins and Linda Asay Richins Living Trust, Jess and Valerie Maxfield, and Karen
Evans, Application No. 2024-0045-DA, based on the following:
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 10, 2024
Page 8


Finding:

      1.      The proposed development agreement complies with DCMC Subsections 9-5-
              200(C) and (D).

Second: Commissioner Nixon seconded the motion.

Vote on motion: 5-0 in favor.


       Commissioner        Yes   No   Abstained    Not Participating    Absent
            Fowler          x
            Squire                                                         x
            Ogden                                                          x
            Nixon           x
            Shirey          x
       Fidler, Alternate    x
       Shah, Alternate                                     x
       Green, Alternate     x


Motion: Commissioner Nixon moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Map Amendment as requested by Chad Evans, representing the Vern
LeLand Richins and Linda Asay Richins Living Trust, Jess, and Valerie Maxfield, and
Karen Evans, Application No. 2024-0045-DA, based on the following Findings for Approval
listed in the Staff Report dated October 4, 2024.

Findings for Approval:

      1.      The proposed Zoning Map Amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives,
              and policies of the city's General Plan.

      2.      The proposed Zoning Map Amendment is harmonious with the overall
              character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property.

      3.      The proposed Zoning Map Amendment is consistent with the standards of any
              applicable Overlay Zone.


      4.      The proposed Zoning Map Amendment will not adversely affect adjacent
              property.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 10, 2024
Page 9

       5.      There are adequate facilities and services intended to serve the subject
               property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
               facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
               water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.


Second: Commissioner Shirey seconded the motion.

Vote on motion: 5-0 in favor.


        Commissioner        Yes    No     Abstained      Not Participating       Absent
             Fowler          x
             Squire                                                                 x
             Ogden                                                                  x
             Nixon           x
             Shirey          x
        Fidler, Alternate    x
        Shah, Alternate                                           x
        Green, Alternate     x


       F.      Public Hearing: Austin’s Appliance Repair Home Occupation Conditional
               Use Permit.
               (Administrative Action)
               On the request of Austin Ewell, representing Austin’s Appliance Repair, a home
               occupation Conditional Use Permit for a home office that provides outcall
               appliance repair services, on approximately 0.37 acres, located at 794 E. 12500
               South. Known as application 2024-0307-USE, Staff Contact: Nick Whittaker, (801)
               576-6522, Nick.Whittaker@Draperutah.gov.

Mr. Whittaker presented the Staff Report and displayed the Vicinity, Aerial, and Land Use maps
for the subject property. Its current Land Use is Residential Low-Medium Density and zoned
RA2. It is an existing appliance repair business office that will be adding features that require a
Conditional Use application. Mr. Ewell repairs appliances onsite at his customers’ locations and
performs administrative work from his home. The permit will allow him to park a work vehicle
at the property and utilize approximately 100 square feet of the detached garage for storage. A
floor plan of the home was reviewed indicating the space where administrative work is performed,
as well as the portion of the garage that will be used for storage. In addition to parking the work
vehicle at his residence, Mr. Ewell requested permission for signage on the vehicle.

Potential impacts include traffic concerns, the aesthetics of a business vehicle being parked at the
property, commercial signage attached to the business vehicle, and storage or repair of customer
appliances at the property. Proposed mitigation would be limiting the number of business vehicles
parked at the property to one vehicle, designating off-street parking for the business vehicle,
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 10, 2024
Page 10

prohibiting business-related appliances or appliance repair activities from being conducted on the
subject property, and limiting the size of the business vehicle signage to that which currently exists.

Mr. Whittaker reviewed photographs of the subject property, including the work vehicle, signage,
and where the vehicle would be parked.

The applicant, Austin Ewell stated that he has worked on appliances for over 16 years and has had
his business license since 2014. He is the fourth-generation owner of the home, and he is happy
to be a resident of Draper. He thanked the Planning Commission for their time.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to APPROVE the Home Occupation Conditional Use
Permit, as requested by Austin Ewell representing Austin's Appliance Repair, Application
2024-0307-USE, based on the following:

Finding:

       1.      The proposal complies with the standards for approval found in DCMC
               Section 9-5-080(E) and potential negative impacts are mitigated through the
               imposition of reasonable conditions.

Second: Commissioner Fidler seconded the motion.

Vote on motion: 5-0 in favor.


        Commissioner         Yes    No     Abstained       Not Participating        Absent
             Fowler           x
             Squire                                                                    x
             Ogden                                                                     x
             Nixon            x
             Shirey           x
        Fidler, Alternate     x
        Shah, Alternate                                             x
        Green, Alternate      x


       G.      Public Hearing: City Initiated 2024 ADU Zoning Text Amendment.
               (Legislative Item)
               On the request of Draper City, a request for a Zoning Text Amendment to Chapter
               9-31 of the Draper City Municipal Code (DCMC) in order to modify standards for
               accessory dwelling units (“ADU”), known as Application No. 2024-0279-TA.
               Staff Contact: Todd Taylor, 801-576-6510, todd.taylor@draperutah.gov.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 10, 2024
Page 11


Mr. Taylor presented the Staff Report and stated that the Planning Commission previously
reviewed a proposed General Plan Amendment and Moderate-Income Housing Plan Amendment
to reduce regulations related to ADUs. The proposed Zoning Text Amendment would allow a
property owner to occupy either the single-family dwelling or ADU. Additionally, in areas in the
City where Internal Accessory Dwelling Units (“I-ADU”) are prohibited, the minimum lot size
required to request a deviation to allow for an I-ADU would be decreased from 20,000 square feet
to 6,000 square feet. All other requirements would be unchanged.

In response to a question from Chair Adams, it was clarified that the ADU would still have to meet
the 50% square footage rule; it cannot be over 50% of the main dwelling’s square footage. The
change simply allows the property owner to live in either structure. For example, someone who
is retired and does not need a larger home can still live on their property and rent out the larger
home.

Chair Adams opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Motion: Commissioner Shirey moved to forward a POSITIVE recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Text Amendment, as requested by Draper City, for the City-Initiated
2024 ADU Zoning Text Amendments, Application No. 2024-0279-TA, based on the
following:

Findings:

       1.      The proposed amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies
               of the City's General Plan.

       2.      The proposed amendment is appropriate given the context of the request and
               there is sufficient justification for a modification to the development codes.

       3.      The proposed amendment will not create a conflict with any other section or
               part of the development codes or the General Plan.

       4.      The potential effects of the proposed amendment have been evaluated and are
               determined not to be detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare and
               represents an overall community benefit.

       5.      The proposed text amendment implements the best current, professional
               practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices.

Second: Commissioner Fowler seconded the motion.

Vote on motion: 5-0 in favor.
Draper City Planning Commission Meeting
October 10, 2024
Page 12


       Commissioner        Yes   No   Abstained   Not Participating   Absent
            Fowler          x
            Squire                                                      x
            Ogden                                                       x
            Nixon           x
            Shirey          x
       Fidler, Alternate    x
       Shah, Alternate                                   x
       Green, Alternate     x

2.    Adjournment.

Motion: Commissioner Fowler moved to ADJOURN.

Chair Adams adjourned the meeting at 7:28 PM.
