                                         Exhibit “A”
                  (Deletions in strikethrough new language in bold underline)

17.08.010: DEFINITIONS:

ACCESSORY DWELLINGLIVING UNIT OR ADU: A Life Safety and Building Code
compliant dwellingliving unit thatwhich is an extension of (being attached or detached), and
incidental and subordinate to, a single-family residential unit and shall beof one of the following
twothree (23) types:

       Accessory Apartment: An ADUlife safety compliant “accessory living unit", contained
       within or attached to the primary dwelling by at least one shared wall so that the
       ADU and the primary dwelling appear to be one unitallowed within applicable zones
       by approval from the Planning Department and with applicable building permits,
       thatwhich may includes a kitchen, and bathroom, and sleeping areas separated from the
       primary dwelling by a wall, door, finished entryway, or other physical barrier that
       limits or restricts continuous free flow access to the ADU. It is contained within the
       primary dwelling, may be separated with a dedicated access, and may be occupied by no
       more than four (4) individuals related by blood, marriage, adoption, or approved foster
       care; or no more than two (2) unrelated individuals in addition to the "family or
       household" that occupies the primary dwelling.

       Extended Living Area: A life safety compliant “accessory living unit" which may include
       a kitchen, bathroom, and living areas, and shall provide continuous free flow access
       between living areas within the primary dwelling, which may not be occupied by
       individuals in addition to the "family or household" that occupies the primary dwelling.

       Guesthouse: An ADUlife safety compliant “accessory living unit" that is detached from
       the primary dwelling, allowed within applicable zones by approval from the Planning
       Department and with applicable building permits, thatwhich may includes a kitchen, and
       bathroom, and sleeping areas. It is typically detached from the primary dwelling and may
       be occupied by no more than four (4) individuals related by blood, marriage, adoption, or
       approved foster care; or no more than two (2) unrelated individuals in addition to the
       "family or household" that occupies the primary dwelling.

CONTINUOUS FREE FLOW ACCESS: A continuous and open path between the primary
dwelling area and the second kitchen or potential accessory apartment contained in a
primary dwelling unit. The access path shall allow two-way access through entryways
(which shall not be finished to facilitate the addition of a door), open spaces, hallways,
stairways, or other open access ways that remain uninhibited by doors, walls, or any other
physical barrier. The path shall have openings of at least forty-eight (48) inches wide or the
standard width of the connecting corridor so as not to limit or restrict access.

KITCHEN: Any room or space used, intended to be used, or designed to be used for
cooking or for the preparation of food. Facilities that establish the use of a room or space as

                                                                                       Page 1 of 10
a kitchen include refrigerators, stoves, microwaves, other cooking appliances, built-in
cabinets, sinks, garbage disposal, and electrical, water, and/or natural gas supply lines, in
any combination intended to permit any room or space to be used as a kitchen.

SECOND KITCHEN: A second kitchen, contained within the primary dwelling unit that
provides continuous free flow access between the primary dwelling area and the second
kitchen. Second kitchens are not considered accessory dwelling units as long as continuous
free flow access is maintained.




                         Chapter 17.130
                  OVERLAY AND FLOATING ZONES
17.130.010: DEFINITION AND PURPOSE:
17.130.020: RESIDENTIAL CHICKENS FLOATING ZONE:
17.130.020.005: STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL CHICKENS:
17.130.020.010: PLOT PLAN, PERMITS, FEES, INSPECTIONS, AND POTENTIAL
REVOCATION:
17.130.020.015: TRANSFERABILITY:
17.130.030: ACCESSORY DWELLINGLIVING UNIT FLOATING ZONE:
17.130.030.010: PURPOSE:
17.130.030.020: REVIEW PROCESS:
17.130.030.030: PROHIBITIONS:
17.130.030.040: APPLICABILITY:
17.130.030.050: INSPECTIONS:
17.130.030.060: PRIOR USE:
17.130.030.070: TRANSFERABILITY:
17.130.030.070080: APPEALS:
17.130.040: FARM ANIMAL FLOATING ZONE:
17.130.040.010: PURPOSE:
17.130.040.020: DEFINITIONS:
17.130.040.030: FARM ANIMALS, EXCLUDING BEES AND PIGEONS:
17.130.040.040: BEEKEEPING:
17.130.040.050: PIGEONS:
17.130.040.060: WILD ANIMALS:
17.130.050: PLANNED DEVELOPMENT FLOATING ZONE:
17.130.050.010: PURPOSE:
17.130.050.020: ESTABLISHMENT:
17.130.050.030: AMENDMENTS:

17.130.030: ACCESSORY DWELLINGLIVING UNIT FLOATING ZONE:




                                                                                   Page 2 of 10
17.130.030.010: PURPOSE:

Accessory dwellingliving units or ADUs, as defined in Ssection 17.08.010 of this Ttitle, are
intended tomay be approved in order to provide affordable housing units, economic relief to
homeowners, and create desirable housing forms that appeal totypes appropriate for
households and individuals at a variety of stages in the life cycle. The Accessory DwellingLiving
Unit Floating Zone provides regulations and design standards for ADUsaccessory living units.
Acceptable ADUsaccessory living units shall be one of the following twothree (23) types (see
Ssection 17.08.010 of this Ttitle for definitions):

Accessory apartments.: An ADU, contained within or attached to the primary dwelling by at
least one shared wall so that the ADU and the primary dwelling appear to be one unit, that
includes a kitchen and bathroom separated from the primary dwelling by a wall, door,
finished entryway, or other physical barrier that limits or restricts continuous free flow
access to the ADU.

Extended living areas.

Guesthouses.: An ADU that is detached from the primary dwelling that includes a kitchen
and bathroom.

17.130.030.020: REVIEW PROCESS:

The use of the Accessory DwellingLiving Unit Floating Zone may only be established in
conformance with the review procedures of this Ssection. Applicants shall follow the procedures,
requirements, and standards of this Code. The use of the Accessory DwellingLiving Unit
Floating Zone shall be conducted in accordance with approved plansthe documents submitted
for approval.

A. Planning Department Approval: All accessory apartments and guesthouses shall require the
   approval of the Planning Department before they are occupied. Applicants shall
   electronically submit to the Planning Department an Accessory Dwelling Unit
   application that includes (1) aA site plan shall be submitted to the Planning Department,
   that is drawn to scale thatand clearly showsing the location of all existing and new
   structures, parking, driveways, and walkways;. and (2) aA floor plan shall be submitted,that
   is drawn to scale with room labels and indicating designated use, in order to determine
   compliance with the requirements herein.

   Extended living areas may be allowed by the underlying zone and do not need additional
   approval for the use itself by the Planning Department, however a building permit may still
   be required whenever construction is involved.

   1. Resident Occupancy: For aAll accessory dwellingliving units, approved under this
      section 17.130.030 require that the owner of the property, as reflected in title records,
      shalllive make his or her legal residence on the property as evidenced by voter



                                                                                     Page 3 of 10
   registration, vehicle registration, driver’s license, county assessor records or similar
   meanswithin the primary dwelling, except for legitimate temporary absences.

   a. Accessory Apartments: The owner of the property on which an accessory apartment
   has been approved may occupy the primary dwelling unit or the accessory apartment.

   b. Guesthouses: The owner of the property shall be required to live in the primary
   dwelling on the property for which the guesthouse is approved.

2. Standards: The Planning Department shallmay approve accessory dwellingliving units
   applicationsbased upon the following standards being met:

   a. Zoning: The Accessory DwellingLiving Unit Floating Zone shallmay be applied to
      conforming single-family dwellings in the following zones: A-5, A-1, R-1.8, R-2.5,
      R-3, R-4 and R-5. Guesthouses shall only be approved in the A-5, A-1, and R-1.8
      Zones. In no case shall a guesthouse be approved on a single-family lot that is less
      than fourteen thousand five hundred twenty (14,520) square feet in area. Except for
      standards herein allowed under the Accessory Living Unit Floating Zone, Approved
      accessory dwellingliving units shall meet the requirements of the underlying zone.
      Only one (1) ADUaccessory apartment or guesthouse is allowed per lot.
      ADUsAccessory living units are not allowed in conjunction with mobile homes or
      any form of attached housing units.

   b. Maximum Size: In all cases an accessory dwellingliving unit shall remain
      subordinate and incidental to the primary dwelling. No ADUaccessory living unit
      shall have more than three (3) bedrooms.

       (1) The floor space of an accessory dwellingliving unit shall comprise no more than
           thirty-five percent (35%) of the living area of the primary dwelling or be greater
           than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet, whichever is less, unless, in
           the opinion of the Planning Commission, a greater amount of floor area is
           warranted. All floor space of an ADU shall be contiguous. Utility closets shall
           be omitted from the calculation of an accessory apartment floor space area.

       (2) The addition of an accessory dwelling unit shall not violate the maximum
           building coverage requirements outlined in Sections 17.40.020 and 17.30.020
           of this Title.

   c. Parking: A minimum of twoone (2) off-street parking spaces, in addition to those
      already required, shall be provided for an accessory dwellingliving units. Only one
      (1) of the additional parking spaces may be located in front of the existing
      parking spaces. The second additional parking space must be located to the rear
      or side of the already required parking so as not to block parking access. All
      parking spots shall meet the requirements of Chapter 16.26 of this Code.
      Additional spaces shall be provided, as needed, to ensure that all additional occupant
      vehicles will be accommodated on site, reserving on-street parking for visitors.

                                                                                 Page 4 of 10
       d. Setbacks: All ADUsaccessory living units that propose modifications visible from the
          exterior of the home (i.e., additions and remodels to the primary dwelling, or
          construction of a guesthouses) shall comply with the following requirements:

           (1) Setbacks. ADUs shall comply with the setbacks of the underlying zone or as
               approved with the subdivision. Guesthouses shall comply with the required
               setbacks of the underlying zone for an accessory building, however, in no case
               shall a guesthouse be located closer than ten feet (10') from a side or rear property
               line.

           (2) Exterior Appearance. ADUs shall be designed so that the appearance of the
               lot, building structure, and landscaping retain the character of a single-
               family neighborhood.

           (3) Architectural Compatibility. ADUs shall be designed and constructed to be
               compatible with the exterior of the primary dwelling (e.g., exterior materials,
               colors, and roof pitch).

       g. Occupancy: Accessory dwelling units may be occupied by no more than four (4)
          individuals related by blood, marriage, adoption, or approved foster care; or no
          more than two (2) unrelated individuals in addition to the “family or household”
          that occupies the primary dwelling.

   3. Affidavitpproval Letter: Applicants for ADUs shall sign and record an affidavitFor all
      approved accessory living units, a letter shall be required from the owner, and sworn
      before a public notary, stating that the owner will comply with all regulations of the
      Accessory DwellingLiving Unit Floating Zone and will live in either the primary or
      accessory dwelling unit as their permanent residenceoccupy the property. The
      affidavitletter shall also state that the owner assumes responsibility to comply with
      further restrictions that may be imposed by a homeowners' association and/or codes,
      covenants, and restrictions (CC&Rs) and include authorization of annual inspections
      of the ADU by City Staff to ensure compliance with all regulations of the Accessory
      Dwelling Unit Floating Zone. Upon approval of the accessory living unit, the original
      letter shall be stamped, documenting approval, and kept on file with the Planning
      Department. A copy may be provided to the homeowner.

B. Building Permit Requirements: In addition to the approval required from the Planning
   Department, all accessory dwellingliving units that propose construction or remodeling shall
   require a building permit from the Building Division and shall conform to all applicable
   standards in the City's adopted Building Codes. The applicant shall obtain all necessary
   building permits and pay applicable fees prior to any construction, remodeling, or use of any
   ADUaccessory living unit. ADUsAccessory living units shall not be approved on properties
   that have outstanding ordinance or building violations or are nonconforming uses or
   structures. Floor plans, architectural elevations, and structural calculations, as may be
   required, shall be submitted to the Building Division.


                                                                                       Page 5 of 10
C. Planning Commission Approval: In addition to the requirements of subsections A and B of
   this section, accessory dwellingliving units that propose a floor area greater than thirty five
   percent (35%) of the living area for the primary dwelling or one thousand five hundred
   (1,500) square feet, accessory apartments that propose the alteration of the exterior or
   expansion of the primary dwelling (including the addition of doors, stairs, walkways, etc.),
   and all guesthouses shall require review and approval by the Planning Commission.

   1. Standards: The Planning Commission may approve accessory living units affecting the
      exterior of the primary structure or lot based on the following standards:

       a. Exterior Appearance: Any new construction or alteration of the exterior of the existing
       structure required to add an accessory living unit shall be designed so that the appearance
       of the lot, building structure, and landscaping shall retain the character of a single-family
       neighborhood.

       b. Architectural Compatibility: An accessory living unit with proposed construction or
       remodeling shall be designed and constructed to be compatible with the exterior of the
       primary dwelling (i.e., exterior materials, colors, roof pitch, etc.).

       c. Additional Requirements: The Planning Commission may impose other appropriate
       requirements, more stringent than those requirements contained within this
       section 17.130.030, if deemed necessary to ensure the public health, safety, and welfare.

17.130.030.030: PROHIBITIONS:

The installation of additional outside entrances visible from the street, separate utility meters,
mailboxes, and addresses, and additional outside entrances visible from the street is not
permitted. ADUs shall not be permitted on flag lots.

17.130.030.040: APPLICABILITY:

Regardless of an approval granted by the City, accessory dwellingliving units may be further
restricted by homeowners' association agreements and/or codes, covenants, and restrictions
(CC&Rs). It is not the City's responsibility to ensure or enforce compliance with such
agreements or CC&Rs. Homeowners are responsible to ensure that they are in compliance with
applicable homeowners' association agreements and/or CC&Rs.

17.130.030.050: INSPECTIONS:

PeriodicYearly interior and exterior inspections may be required to determine compliance
with all regulations of the Accessory Dwelling Unit Floating Zone, as may be deemed
appropriate by City Sstaff.

17.130.030.060: PRIOR USE:

An existing accessory dwellingliving unit may be approved if the ADUuse complies with the

                                                                                       Page 6 of 10
requirements of this Ssection 17.130.030. If a certificate of occupancy was not issued at the time
of construction or remodeling, the applicant shall apply for a building permit and the chief
building official, or his designee, shall inspect the ADUaccessory living unit for Code
compliance. All documented violations shall be corrected prior to approval of the ADUaccessory
living unit. Any uses or dwellings which previously conformed to prior ordinances, including
having obtained all necessary and applicable permits, but do not now conform due to adoption of
this Ssection 17.130.030, shall be permitted to continue as a legal nonconforming use.

17.130.030.070: TRANSFERABILITY:

Accessory living unit approval is not transferable. Upon the sale of the home or the change of
primary occupant, the approval for an accessory apartment or guesthouse shall expire, unless
otherwise renewed by the new owner.

17.130.030.070080: APPEALS:

Decisions by the Planning Department and/or the Planning Commission regarding the issuance
or denial of an accessory dwellingliving unit may be appealed to the Appeals and Variance
Hearing Officer in accordance with Section 17.16.020.020 of this Code.



17.18.030.030: RESIDENTIAL USE REGULATIONS:

A. General Residential Use Regulations:

   1. There shall be no open storage of trash, debris, used materials or commercial goods or
      wrecked or neglected materials, equipment or vehicles. Containers or enclosures
      containing said items shall not be located in a front yard area, except for temporary use as
      needed for construction or disposal.

   2. Home occupations may be licensed in an approved residential dwelling and according to
      the provisions of title 5, chapter 5.38, "Home Occupations", of this Code.

   3. Farm animals may be allowed as regulated in sections 17.130.020, "Residential Chickens
      Floating Zone", and 17.130.040, "Farm Animal Floating Zone", of this title.

   4. Household pets may be allowed as regulated by title 6, "Animals", of this Code.

B. Specific Regulations By Residential Use:

   1. Group Living Uses: All group living uses (community residential facility, dormitory,
      institutional facility) shall require site plan review according to title 16, chapter 16.24,
      "Site Plan Review", of this Code and shall be located no closer than one-half (1/2) mile to
      another group living facility of the same use, unless otherwise approved by the Planning
      Commission with a conditional use permit pursuant to section 17.18.050 of this chapter.


                                                                                      Page 7 of 10
   a. P-O Zone: Community residential facility uses shall not exceed two (2) stories.

   b. R-M Zone: Community residential facility uses shall not exceed sixteen (16) occupants
   and shall be located on a legal lot or parcel with frontage and access to a collector or
   arterial street.

2. Institutional Facility: Excluding temporary emergency shelter as determined necessary by
   the City, institutional facility uses shall be located no closer than one mile from any
   elementary/secondary education use or any other institutional facility use.

3. Live-Work:

   a. Where allowed, live-work units shall be specifically indicated on, and approved with,
   an associated subdivision or site plan. Live-work units are not allowed in an existing
   development, unless the subdivision or site plan is amended.

   b. Allowed nonresidential uses shall be established with the approval of the project and
   shall be consistent with other nonresidential uses allowed in the associated zone. The
   following activities are prohibited: sexually oriented businesses; uses involving animals
   on site; vehicle service and repair; welding/woodworking; storage or distribution of
   flammable liquids and hazardous materials beyond that normally associated with a
   residential use; drive-through and other uses and activities that are not compatible with
   residential uses due to potential adverse health or safety affects from dust, glare, heat,
   noise, noxious gasses, odor, smoke, traffic, vibration or other impacts.

   c. The floor area of the nonresidential use shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total
   floor area of the unit.

   d. Employees may only consist of the residents of the dwelling and not more than one
   additional nonresident person.

   e. Each nonresidential use shall comply with all requirements of this Code.

   f. The exterior of live-work units shall be designed to be compatible with surrounding
   residential uses.

   g. One wall sign may be allowed. The sign shall not exceed five percent (5%) of the
   facade of the unit and shall comply with all other requirements of title 16, chapter
   16.36 of this Code.

   h. Garage and/or exterior areas shall not be used for the nonresidential use, except that a
   garage area may be used to park one vehicle related to the nonresidential use.

4. Neighborhood Residential Facility: Neighborhood residential facility uses shall comply
   with title 5, chapter 5.62, "Residential Facilities", of this Code.


                                                                                   Page 8 of 10
  5. Single-Family, Attached: Lots or parcels may be occupied by only one single-family
     dwelling unit as the primary dwelling.

      a. R-M Zone: Single-family, attached uses may only be approved as part of a
      development agreement approved by the City Council.

  6. Single-Family, Detached: Lots or parcels may be occupied by only one single-family
     dwelling unit as the primary dwelling. Accessory dwellingliving units may be permitted
     according to the provisions of section 17.130.030, "Accessory DwellingLiving Unit
     Floating Zone", of this title. A second kitchen, as defined in Section 17.08.010 of this
     Title, is not considered an accessory dwelling unit and may be allowed as a
     permitted use in a single-family detached dwelling unit provided that it complies
     with the following:

         a. Only one (1) second kitchen shall be permitted per lot.

         b. The residence shall have only one (1) front entrance, one (1) address, one (1)
            mailbox, and one (1) electrical meter.

         c. Continuous free flow access shall be maintained at all times between the
            primary dwelling area and the second kitchen.

         d. The second kitchen shall be contained within the primary dwelling so as to be
            one (1) unit and shall not be installed in an accessory building or detached
            from the primary dwelling.

         e. Construction of any second kitchen shall meet standards of the current
            building codes adopted by the City.

         f. Approval of a second kitchen within a single-family dwelling unit shall not be
            an approval of a second dwelling unit or accessory dwelling unit.

         g. Upon request by the City, the owner shall allow inspection of
            the dwelling unit and second kitchen to determine compliance with this
            section.


17.18.030.070: ACCESSORY USE REGULATIONS:

 A. General Accessory Use Regulations:

  1. Accessory uses and buildings are permitted only in conjunction with the regulations of
     this Code and only when commonly and customarily associated with and incidental and
     secondary to allowed and approved primary uses.




                                                                                    Page 9 of 10
 2. When more than one accessory use is associated with a primary use, the accessory uses
    shall cumulatively remain incidental and secondary to the allowed uses.

B. Specific Regulations By Use Type:

 1. Residential accessory uses and buildings may include, but are not limited to, accessory
    dwellingliving units, yard sales, caretakers, garages, sheds, swimming pools, recreational
    equipment, gardens and greenhouses.




                                                                                Page 10 of 10
