                                                                           Exhibit
                                                                              A
16.04.160: LOTS AND PARCELS
D. Flag Or Panhandle Lots: Flag or panhandle lots may be approved by the Planning
Commission in residential and agricultural zones after receiving a positive recommendation from
the City Engineer and Fire Code official in compliance with the requirements listed below.
utilized to facilitate development of otherwise inaccessible lots as set forth in this section.
1. Qualifying Criteria. Flag lots may only be considered for lots or parcels that meet all of
the following qualifying criteria:
   a. There is no other feasible or practical way to subdivide the lot or parcel or gain direct
      access to a public street or future street system as determined by the City Engineer.
   b. The proposed subdivision will create A flag lot access may only be approved for: a
      maximum of two (2) new residential building lots from the original lot or parcel; or the
      proposed subdivision will create a maximum of two (2) additional building lots, one
      created from the original parcel and another created from an adjacent parcel that also
      meets all requirements for flag or panhandle lots.
   c. The original lot or parcel has a cumulative minimum of 125 feet of contiguous street
      frontage.
2. Design Standards. A flag lot shall comply with the following design standards:
   a. Lots:
         1. All proposed lots meet the minimum required setbacks of the underlying
            zone including density. Density is calculated on the area included in the
            original subdivision plat.
         2. Flag lots shall have a lot size that is 125% the minimum size permitted in the
            underlying zoning district. Square footage within access strips shall not be
            included in the minimum lot size calculations.
      3. Setbacks are as set forth in the governing zoning district, but in no
          circumstance may be less than fifteen feet (15’).
      4. The front setback for the flag lot shall be determined by which portion of the
          lot is most parallel to the street where the flag lot is accessed and shall
          exclude the access strip in location of the minimum setbacks.
b. Structures:
      1. Structures on flag lots shall be a maximum of 25’ in height.
      2. Structures, including accessory buildings, are prohibited within the access
          strip of a flag lot.
c. Access Strip:
      1. Access strips shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20’) of paved access width.
          Greater access width may be required by the fire marshal based on the
          access with requirements of the International Fire Code.
      2. The access strip portion of a flag lot shall be platted as a contiguous portion
          of the flag lot.
      3. All proposed driveways and access points shall comply with applicable
          International Fire Code standards.
      4. The driveway access strip shall be paved with asphalt or concrete to a
          minimum width of twenty feet (20'). Design of the driveway shall provide a
          manner for controlling drainage water acceptable to the city engineer. The
          load bearing capacity of the driveway may be required to be designed to
          support the weight of fire and emergency vehicles as required by the Fire
          Marshal and City Engineer.
      5. The maximum grade of the access strip shall not exceed ten percent (10%).
      6. For lots where the access strip is over one hundred fifty feet (150') in length,
          sufficient turnaround space for emergency vehicles shall be provided and an
          easement for access by emergency vehicles will be required. The fire marshal
          shall review and approve the design and location. The access strip or
          driveway shall be maintained by the property owner or possessor of the
          premise. It must be in good condition, with adequate snow removal, free of
          obstructions, and must provide free and uninhibited access by emergency
          vehicles at all times.
      7. Driveways shall be located a minimum of fifteen feet (15’) from existing
          residential structures on neighboring lots, excluding those located on parent
          lots.
      8. Flag lots must post address numbers at the entrance to the flag lot driveway
          that are clearly visible from the right-of-way and meet the requirements of
          the International Fire Code.
      9. To reduce the number of driveways, a single access strip may be used when
          shared by two adjacent flag lots or by a flag lot and the lot between the flag
          lot and the street. In such circumstances shared access easements shall be
          included on the plat.
           10. Fire hydrants shall be provided to serve the flag lot as required by the
               International Fire Code. Any fire hydrants located in the public right of way
               shall be dedicated to the water provider for access to and maintenance of the
               hydrant.
4. Procedure. Flag lots will be processed as a subdivision amendment as set forth in Section
16.14 of this Code.
5. Submittal Requirements. In addition to the submittal requirements set forth in Section
16.14 of this Code, applications with flag lots shall submit the following:
   a. The applicant understands and acknowledges in writing that Written acknowledgement
      from the applicant indicating that irrespective of any City approval, there may be
      covenants, conditions, and restrictions on the parcel that the City does not review and
      cannot enforce that may preclude flag lot development;
   b. A written description from the applicant stating the reason the flag lot is needed,
      why the flag lot may not be developed along a street or future street, and what
      potential impacts for neighboring properties may be and what actions have been
      taken to limit those impacts, and;
   c. A concept plan showing the required setbacks and the building envelope.
6. Approval. Flag lots that meet all applicable criteria shall be administratively approved
by the Planning Director if in compliance with all applicable regulations.
7. Notice. Following of the submittal of a complete flag lot application, the City shall send
an informational notice to adjacent property owners informing them of the subdivision
application.


Section 17.08 Definitions Generally
Definitions:
LOT, FLAG LOT ACCESS STRIP: A narrow portion of land (resembling a flagpole) that
connects a large area behind another lot or parcel (resembling a flag) to the right-of-way.
LOT, FLAG OR PANHANDLE: A lot having a larger area or “body” at the rear behind
another lot or parcel (resembling a flag or pan) which is connected to the street by a narrower
portion narrow access strip (resembling a flagpole or handle) which does not meet the lot width
or frontage requirements of the zone.
LOT, PARENT: A lot remaining along the majority of the street frontage after a flag lot is
created.
17.130.030: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT FLOATING ZONE
17.130.030.010: PURPOSE
17.130.030.020: REVIEW PROCESS
17.130.030.030: PROHIBITIONS
17.130.030.040: INSPECTIONS
17.130.030.050: PRIOR USE
17.130.030.060: APPEALS


17.130.030.010: PURPOSE
Accessory dwelling units or ADUs, as defined in section 17.08.010 of this Title, are intended to
provide affordable housing units, economic relief to homeowners, and create desirable housing
forms that appeal to households and individuals at a variety of stages in the life cycle. The
Accessory Dwelling Unit Floating Zone provides regulations and design standards for ADUs.
Acceptable ADUs shall be one of the following two (2) types (see section 17.08.010 of this Title
for definitions):
Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit or IADU: An ADU, that qualifies as an internal ADU under
Utah State Law, and is contained within the primary dwelling so that the ADU and the primary
dwelling appear to be one unit, that includes a kitchen and bathroom.
Guesthouse: An ADU that is detached from the primary dwelling that includes a kitchen and
bathroom.
17.130.030.020: REVIEW PROCESS
The use of the Accessory Dwelling Unit Floating Zone may only be established in conformance
with the review procedures of this section. Applicants shall follow the procedures, requirements,
and standards of this Code. The use of the Accessory Dwelling Unit Floating Zone shall be
conducted in accordance with approved plans.
   1. Planning Department Approval: All Internal Accessory Dwelling Units and Guesthouses
      shall require the approval of the Planning Department before they are occupied.
      Applicants shall electronically submit to the Planning Department an accessory dwelling
      unit application that includes (1) a site plan that is drawn to scale that clearly shows the
      location of all existing and new structures, parking, driveways, and walkways; and (2) a
      floor plan that is drawn to scale with room labels and indicating designated use.
           1. Resident Occupancy: For all accessory dwelling units, the owner of the property,
              as reflected in title records, shall make his or her legal residence on the property
              as evidenced by voter registration, vehicle registration, driver’s license, county
              assessor records or similar means.
           2. Standards: The Planning Department shall approve accessory dwelling unit
              applications upon the following standards being met:
                  1. Zoning: The Accessory Dwelling Unit Floating Zone shall be applied to
                     conforming single-family dwellings in the following zones: A-5, A-1, R-
                     1.8, R-2.5, R-3, R-4 and R-5. Approved accessory dwelling units shall
                     meet the requirements of the underlying zone. Only one (1) ADU is
                     allowed per lot. ADUs are not allowed in conjunction with mobile homes
                     or any form of attached housing units.
                  2. Lot Size: An internal ADU shall only be approved on a lot that is greater
                     than six thousand (6,000) square feet in area. A Guesthouse shall only be
                     approved on a lot that is equal to or greater than fourteen thousand five
                     hundred twenty (14,520) square feet in area. The addition of an accessory
                     dwelling unit shall not violate the maximum building coverage
                     requirements outlined in Sections 17.40.020 and 17.30.020 of this Title.
                     Guesthouses on flag lots are prohibited.
                  3. Parking: A minimum of one (1) off-street parking spaces, in addition to
                     those already required for the single-family home, shall be provided for an
                     accessory dwelling unit and shall not render the required parking spaces
                  for the single-family home inaccessible. All parking spots shall meet the
                  requirements of Chapter 16.26 of this Code.
              4. Setbacks: All ADUs that propose modifications visible from the exterior
                 of the home (i.e., additions and remodels to the primary dwelling or
                 construction of a Guesthouse) shall comply with the following
                 requirements:
                      1. Setbacks, ADUs shall comply with the setbacks of the underlying
                         zone or as approved with the subdivision. Guesthouses shall
                         comply with the required setbacks of the underlying zone for an
                         accessory building, however, in no case shall a Guesthouse be
                         located closer than ten feet (10') from a side or rear property line.
                      2. Exterior Appearance: ADUs shall be designed so that the
                         appearance of the lot, building structure, and landscaping retain the
                         character of a single-family neighborhood.
                      3. Architectural Compatibility: ADUs shall be designed and
                         constructed to be compatible with the exterior of the primary
                         dwelling (e.g., exterior materials, colors, and roof pitch) in order to
                         maintain the appearance of the primary dwelling as a single-family
                         dwelling.
              5. Guesthouse Maximum Size: In all cases a Guesthouse shall remain
                 subordinate and incidental to the primary dwelling. No Guesthouse shall
                 have more than three (3) bedrooms. The floor space of a Guesthouse shall
                 comprise no more than thirty-five percent (35%) of the living area of the
                 primary dwelling or be greater than one thousand five hundred (1,500)
                 square feet, whichever is less, unless, in the opinion of the Planning
                 Commission, a greater amount of floor area is warranted.
       3. Affidavit: Applicants for ADUs shall sign and record an affidavit stating that the
          owner will comply with all regulations of the Accessory Dwelling Unit Floating
          Zone and will live in either the primary or accessory dwelling unit as their
          permanent residence. The affidavit shall also include authorization of annual
          inspections of the ADU by City Staff to ensure compliance with all regulations of
          the Accessory Dwelling Unit Floating Zone.
2. Building Permit Requirements: In addition to the approval required from the Planning
   Department, all accessory dwelling units that propose construction or remodeling shall
   require a building permit from the Building Division and shall conform to all applicable
   standards in the City’s adopted Building Codes. The applicant shall obtain all necessary
   building permits and pay applicable fees prior to any construction, remodeling, or use of
   any ADU. ADUs shall not be approved on properties that have outstanding ordinance or
   building violations or are nonconforming uses or structures. Floor plans, architectural
       elevations, and structural calculations, as may be required, shall be submitted to the
       Building Division.
   3. Guesthouse Planning Commission Approval: In addition to the requirements of
      subsections A and B of this section, Guesthouses that propose a floor area greater than
      thirty-five percent (35%) of the living area for the primary dwelling or one thousand five
      hundred (1,500) square feet shall require review and approval by the Planning
      Commission.


17.130.060: FLAG LOT OVERLAY ZONE
17.130.060.010: PURPOSE
17.130.060.020: ESTABLISHMENT
17.130.060.030: AMENDMENTS


17.130.060.010: PURPOSE
The purpose of the Flag Lot Overlay Zone (FL) is to allow for the creation of a flag lot in an
existing subdivision that does not meet the minimum area requirement in subsection 16.04.160D
of Title 16. The FL may be applied to an existing lot under unique circumstances as determined
by the City Council and its consideration of following provisions.
17.130.060.020: ESTABLISHMENT
   1. Procedure:
          1. Concept: Applicants are encouraged to submit a concept plan and work with staff
             prior to application to understand the surrounding area, the goals and policies of
             the City's General Plan, and to ensure the minimum requirements of the FL can be
             met.
          2. Rezone: An FL shall only be established upon approval by the City Council as a
             rezone according to the provisions of Chapter 17.22, "Zoning Amendments", of
             this Title and as may be required elsewhere in this Title. City Council rezone
             approval of the FL shall be by development agreement.
          3. Concurrent Preliminary Subdivision (Optional): At the applicant's option and with
             the approval of the Planning Director, the applicant may submit a preliminary
             subdivision application to be processed concurrently with an FL rezone. In the
             case of concurrent applications, Planning Commission approval of a concurrent
             preliminary subdivision shall be contingent on the City Council's approval of the
             FL rezone.
   2. Application Requirements:
          1. The subject lot shall have a minimum lot width not less than one hundred twenty-
             five feet (125') as measured along the property line adjacent to the public right-of-
             way.
          2. The applicant shall provide a letter that justifies the establishment of the FL and
             addresses any efforts to limit the impact of development on neighboring
             properties.
          3. The applicant shall provide a concept plan that shall include a preliminary
             subdivision layout showing the location, footprint and building elevations of the
             proposed house.
          4. Notices of the public hearing shall be sent in accordance with the requirements in
             Subsection 16.04.060 of Title 16 and the Utah Code Annotated, except that:
                 1. The area requirement for notices shall include all property owners within
                    the subdivision and adjacent to the subject property.
   3. Effect Of Approval:
          1. All of the provisions of this Code, including those of the base zone, shall be in full
             force and effect (with the exception of the flag lot requirement contained in
             subsection 16.04.160D1a in Title 16), unless such provisions are expressly
             waived or modified by the approved development agreement.
          2. An approved FL shall be shown on the zoning map by a "-FL" designation after
             the designation of the base zone district.
          3. The city shall not issue permits for development within an approved FL unless the
             development complies with the approved development agreement.
17.130.060.030: AMENDMENTS
Any application to amend an approved FL shall be processed as a zone text amendment. Any
amendment to an approved FL requires that the corresponding development agreement also be
amended.
