                      MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
                             Tuesday, September 14, 2021


The City Council of Salt Lake City, Utah, met in Work Session on Tuesday, September 14,
2021 in an Electronic Meeting, pursuant to the Chair’s determination.

The following Council Members were present:
Darin Mano, Dennis Faris, James Rogers, Amy Fowler, Ana Valdemoros, Chris Wharton, Daniel
Dugan

Present Legislative leadership:
Cindy Gust-Jenson, Executive Director; Jennifer Bruno, Deputy Director; Lehua
Weaver, Associate Deputy Director

Present Administrative leadership:
Mayor Erin Mendenhall; Rachel Otto, Chief of Staff; Lisa Shaffer, Chief Administrative Officer

Present City Staff:
Ben Luedtke – Senior Public Policy Analyst, Cindy Lou Trishman – City Recorder, Andrew
Johnston – Director of Homelessness Policy and Outreach, Allison Rowland – Public Polixy
Analyst II, Nick Norris – Planning Director, Taylor Hill – Council Staff, Kristin Riker – Deputy
Director of Public Lands

Council Member Fowler presided at and conducted the meeting.

The meeting was called to order at 1:00 pm.




                                                1
                     MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
                            Tuesday, September 14, 2021




The Council will begin with a closed session then convene as RDA. They will
resume the work session items after the RDA meeting.

Work Session Items

 1. Informational: Updates from the Administration                                ~ 5:15 p.m.
                                                                                     30 min.
    The Council will receive an update from the Administration on major items or projects,
    including but not limited to:
         • COVID-19, the March 2020 Earthquake, and the September 2020 Windstorm;
         • Updates on relieving the condition of people experiencing homelessness;
         • Police Department work, projects, and staffing, etc.; and
         • Other projects or updates.



    FYI – Project Timeline: (subject to change per Chair direction or Council discussion)
    Briefing - Recurring Briefing
    Set Public Hearing Date - n/a
    Hold hearing to accept public comment - n/a
    TENTATIVE Council Action - n/a



    Minutes:
    Council Member Fowler welcomed attendees to the meeting.

    Mayor Mendenhall presented the COVID-19 updates including: current metrics, state-
    wide child metrics, K-12 mask requirements, countywide district cases, westside
    vaccination rates, county-wide vaccination demographics, Rose Park Elementary vaccine
    clinic, and the National League of Cities summit information.

    Andrew Johnston presented homelessness updates, including: shelter occupancy,
    High Utilizer Court dates, and upcoming resource fairs.

    Council Member Valdemoros inquired on the mask mandate for school age children and
    how long the mandate would be in place. Mayor Mendenhall invited Council Members to
    invite Dr. Dunn to present COVID-19 information, said the key factor included increasing
    vaccination rates, and suggested including the state health department in the
    conversation.

 2. Informational: Updates on Racial Equity and Policing                             ~ 5:45 p.m.
                                                                                          15 min.
     The Council will hold a discussion about recent efforts on various projects City staff are
     working on related to racial equity and policing in the City. The conversation may include



                                               2
                  MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
                         Tuesday, September 14, 2021


   issues of community concern about race, equity, and justice in relation to law
   enforcement policies, procedures, budget, and ordinances. Discussion may include:
       • An update or report on the Commission on Racial Equity in Policing; and
       • Other project updates or discussion.



   FYI – Project Timeline: (subject to change per Chair direction or Council discussion)
   Briefing - Recurring Briefing
   Set Public Hearing Date - n/a
   Hold hearing to accept public comment - n/a
   TENTATIVE Council Action - n/a



   Minutes:
   Allison Rowland stated the Council adopted the Racial Equity in Policing (REP)
   Ordinance in September 2020, and would vote to continue the Commission at the
   September 21, 2021 meeting, and the first meeting of the new REP Commission would be
   on September 29, 2021.

3. Ordinance: Budget Amendment No.2 for Fiscal Year 2021-                       ~ 6:00 p.m.
   22
                                                                                     20 min.
   The Council will receive a briefing about an ordinance that would amend the final budget
   of Salt Lake City, including the employment staffing document, for Fiscal Year 2021-22.
   Budget amendments happen several times each year to reflect adjustments to the City’s
   budgets, including proposed project additions and modifications. This amendment
   includes continued funding for the Downtown Ambassador pilot programs on North
   Temple and the Rio Grande neighborhood, funding for a new RV/Car camping outreach
   & mitigation pilot program, and renovation of the City-owned Annex Building leased by
   Odyssey House among other items.

   FYI – Project Timeline: (subject to change per Chair direction or Council discussion)
   Briefing - Tuesday, September 14, 2021
   Set Public Hearing Date - Tuesday, September 7, 2021
   Hold hearing to accept public comment - Tuesday, September 21, 2021 at 7 p.m.
   TENTATIVE Council Action - TBD



   Minutes:
   Ben Luedtke presented the budget amendment and stated there were 18 items for
   consideration, explained that the City was on track to receive no refunds for impact fees
   in 2022, and reviewed the following items:
       • A1 - Continued Funding for Downtown Ambassador Pilot Programs: North Temple
         and Rio Grande



                                            3
                   MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
                          Tuesday, September 14, 2021


       • A2 - Change of Source for Foothill Trails Plan and Central Plant Boilers
       • A3 - Car and RV Camping Pilot Program
       • A4 – Return of Operation Diversion Funds
       • I1 - Re-scope CIP Project - Yalecrest Historic signs to allow additional missed sign
       • I2 - Reverse Recapture for Final Invoice Payments ($150,753 of Class C Funds
         from FY22 CIP back to Project Budgets)
       • I3 - Recapture Completed CIP Projects Funding for FY22 CIP ($38,334 from
         General Fund to CIP)
       • I4 - Annex Building Renovation CIP Application from Odyssey House ($500,000
         from ARPA)
       • I5 - Securing Potential Contamination Site at Fairmont Park ($250,000 from Fund
         Balance)
       • I6 - Full-Time Minutes & Records Clerk Position in the Recorder’s Office ($52,416
         from Fund Balance)
       • I7 - Requested by the Administration to re-scope the $200K for the
         CCC (Community Connection Center) to relocate and now include utilities



   Council Member Rogers asked where the RVs and Campers would be allowed to park in
   the City for longer than 48 hours. Andrew Johnston stated it was a City-wide issue,
   best practices nation-wide were KOAs but that did not exist, a permanent area was
   needed for this type of housing, hoped to work with the County, and help with
   financing small repairs to get people to follow the current ordinance.

   Council Member Rogers asked how far the funding would reach. Mr. Johnston reviewed
   the cost for tow and dismantles versus small repairs of the vehicles indicating the funding
   could help a number of people remain in their RVs and not push them out to the streets.

   Straw poll: Unanimous support to move forward with item I7.




4. Resolution: Sales and Excise Tax Revenue Bonds, Community                      ~ 6:20 p.m.
   Capital Improvement Projects (Series 2021A and 2021B)
                                                                                       45 min.
   The Council will receive a briefing about a resolution authorizing the issuance and sale of
   up to $58 million for a tax exempt bond and a taxable bond that would fund several
   community capital improvement projects; giving authority to certain officers to approve
   the final terms and provisions of the sale within parameters set forth in the resolution;
   and providing for related matters.

   FYI – Project Timeline: (subject to change per Chair direction or Council discussion)
   Briefing - Tuesday, September 14, 2021
   Set Public Hearing Date - n/a
   Hold hearing to accept public comment - n/a
   TENTATIVE Council Action - TBD




                                            4
                   MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
                          Tuesday, September 14, 2021




   Minutes:
   Ben Luedtke presented the Sales and Excise Tax Revenue Bonds.

   Council Member Rogers inquired about the timeline for RFP’s for the Fisher Mansion.

   Council Member Wharton inquired on what it would take to make the Warm Springs
   Plunge into a usable space.

   Mr. Luedtke explained that there would be follow-up from the Administration on both
   questions from Council Members.

   Council Member Fowler inquired what the next steps were for the bond. Mr. Luedtke
   stated there was no deadline, it was up to the Council to provide feedback to staff
   regarding line items; then the Council would have a public hearing and vote.

   Council Member Wharton asked where the dollar amount for the bond came
   from. Mayor Mendenhall stated the reason was that the City did not want to over
   spend on new capitol projects, acknowledging the need that was present with CIP
   projects.

   Council Member Valdemoros asked how accurate the numbers were to construct the
   proposed projects. Mr. Luedtke explained that staff worked on estimates and it was more
   of a moving target due to the changes in the current construction market

   Council and Staff discussed how inflation was currently affecting construction.

   Lisa Shaffer explained how estimates were currently created due to the changes in the
   market and how the City was working toward a strategy to work with the funding.

   Council Member Valdemoros asked if there were written estimates from contractors that
   would give a base price for a project and create a history for a project. Ms. Shaffer
   explained that all estimates came from professional estimators contracted by the City;
   design was often included in the bonds, it created challenges when it came to fully
   actualized designs.

   Council Member Valdemoros asked what happened when the estimates were not
   accurate and what was the process to fix those inaccuracies. Mr. Luedtke explained the
   Council could create a list of priorities, but it was not something future Councils would be
   held to.

   Jorge Chamorro explained that in certain projects the budget could be adjusted to hit
   certain points.

5. Informational: Initial Discussion of Legislative Intents for                    ~ 7:05 p.m.
   Fiscal Year 2021-22
                                                                                       30 min.


                                             5
                  MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
                         Tuesday, September 14, 2021


   The Council will hold the first of three planned briefings on its Legislative Intent
   statements for Fiscal Year 2021-22. Legislative Intents are formal requests the Council
   makes of the Administration that are adopted along with the annual budget. This briefing
   will consist of conversations with the Administration designed to exchange any
   preliminary information and feedback needed to clarify each Intent. In addition, the
   Council will review and consider staff recommendations for closing some previous years’
   intents.

   FYI – Project Timeline: (subject to change per Chair direction or Council discussion)
   Briefing - Tuesday, September 14, 2021
   Set Public Hearing Date - n/a
   Hold hearing to accept public comment - n/a
   TENTATIVE Council Action - n/a



   Minutes:
   Allison Rowland presented the Initial Discussion of Legislative Intents for Fiscal year
   2021-22.

   Cindy Gust-Jenson explained the briefing would help staff and Administration know if
   the writing communicated what staff intended.

   Council Member Valdemoros expressed support for the boarded-building fee intent.

   Council Member Fowler asked for clarification regarding the Funding Our Future
   program and if it was complete. Ms. Rowland stated information was added and the
   intent was to keep the discussion going until it was all complete.

   Council Member Mano asked that item F include additional language concerning clean-
   emitting buildings.

   Council Member Fowler expressed that item G should be expanded to include all
   departments.

   Kristin Riker expressed concern regarding item E, what did ‘adequately maintain’
   mean; also what did Council mean when it stated ‘all city’s public lands’.

   Council Member Faris asked if it would be appropriate for the Public Lands Department
   to work on a definition that was manageable for the department. Ms. Riker asked what
   the Council would like to achieve with the request. Council Member Fowler explained
   that it could mean constituents were no longer complaining about how well maintained
   the areas were, there were different definitions depending on the area and would like the
   department to help define terms in small group meetings with Council.

6. Resolution: Local Emergency Declaration Extension                             ~ 7:35 p.m.
   (COVID)



                                            6
                    MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
                           Tuesday, September 14, 2021


                                                                                       10 min.
    The Council will receive a briefing about a resolution that would extend the Mayor’s
    August 20 proclamation that declared a local emergency related to COVID-19, rising
    cases, and resurgence of the Delta variant. If extended, the related emergency order for
    masks in K-12 schools, would also be extended.

    FYI – Project Timeline: (subject to change per Chair direction or Council discussion)
    Briefing - Tuesday, September 14, 2021
    Set Public Hearing Date - n/a
    Hold hearing to accept public comment - n/a
    TENTATIVE Council Action - Tuesday, September 14, 2021



    Minutes:
    Jennifer Bruno presented the Local Emergency Declaration Extension (COVID),
    explained that the initial declaration was 30 days and that the Council could extend it for
    the length they choose.

    Council Members and Ms. Bruno discussed the time frame for the extension and how
    often it would need to be renewed, using trackable metrics to determine an end point for
    the Declaration, and Dr. Dunn (County Health Department) would be speaking to the
    Council at a later date regarding the pandemic.

    Mayor Mendenhall explained the State’s metrics were pre delta variant and
    suggested additional information be obtained by health care professionals.

    Straw poll to extend the mandate for 30 days to allow for information to be
    gathered was supported by Council Members Mano, Farris, Valdemoros,
    Wharton, Dugan, and Fowler; Council Member Rogers was not in support.

    Council Member Rogers expressed disagreement with Council dictating what should
    happen in schools regarding wearing masks; it should be left for the School Board to
    decide.

    Council Member Fowler commented there was an overwhelming amount of support from
    constituents.

    Council Member Mano commented on the amount of constituent support for the
    extension.




Standing Items

 7. Report of the Chair and Vice Chair



                                              7
                    MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
                           Tuesday, September 14, 2021


   Report of Chair and Vice Chair.

   Minutes:
   Item not held.

8. Report and Announcements from the Executive Director

   Report of the Executive Director, including a review of Council information items and
   announcements. The Council may give feedback or staff direction on any item related to
   City Council business, including but not limited to scheduling items.

   Minutes:
   Item not held.

9. Closed Session

   The Council will consider a motion to enter into Closed Session. A closed meeting described
   under Section 52-4-205 may be held for specific purposes including, but not limited to:
          a. discussion of the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health
          of an individual;
          b. strategy sessions to discuss collective bargaining;
          c. strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation;
          d. strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property,
          including any form of a water right or water shares, if public discussion of the
          transaction would:
                 (i) disclose the appraisal or estimated value of the property under
                 consideration; or
                 (ii) prevent the public body from completing the transaction on the best
                 possible terms;
          e. strategy sessions to discuss the sale of real property, including any form of a water
          right or water shares, if:
                 (i) public discussion of the transaction would:
                        (A) disclose the appraisal or estimated value of the property under
                        consideration; or
                        (B) prevent the public body from completing the transaction on the best
                        possible terms;
                 (ii) the public body previously gave public notice that the property would be
                 offered for sale; and
                 (iii) the terms of the sale are publicly disclosed before the public body
                 approves the sale;
          f. discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
          g. investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal misconduct.
   A closed meeting may also be held for attorney-client matters that are privileged pursuant to
   Utah Code § 78B-1-137, and for other lawful purposes that satisfy the pertinent requirements
   of the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.

   Minutes:
   Closed Session began at 1:08 pm




                                               8
                     MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
                            Tuesday, September 14, 2021


      Closed Session Attendees:

      Council Members Rogers, Faris, Valdemoros, Wharton, Mano, Dugan and Fowler

      City Staff Attendees: Erin Mendenhall, Andrew Johnston, Jennifer Bruno, Katie Lewis,
      Lehua Weaver, Rachel Otto, Allison Rowland, Ben Luedtke, Boyd Ferguson, Cindy Gust-
      Jenson, Dan Weist, Nick Norris, Hannah Vickery, Taylor Hill, Justin Anderson, Sam
      Owen, Paul Nielson, Mike Brown, Tracey Fletcher, Michelle Hoon, Hassan Abdi, Cindy
      Lou Trishman, Nick Tarbet, Blake Thomas, Lisa Shaffer, Russell Weeks and Lindsay
      Nikola.

      Motion by Wharton, seconded by Faris to exit the closed session. Roll call
      vote was completed (Rogers, Faris, Wharton, Mano, Dugan, and
      Valdemoros) – motion passed; Fowler (absent)



      Motion:
      Moved by Councilmember Mano, seconded by Councilmember Dugan to enter into
      Closed Session for the purposes of advice from Counsel.



      AYE: Darin Mano, Dennis Faris, James Rogers, Amy Fowler, Daniel Dugan
      ABSENT: Ana Valdemoros, Chris Wharton
      Final Result: 5 – 0 Pass

      Motion:
      Moved by Councilmember Wharton, seconded by Councilmember Faris to exit the
      Closed Session.

      AYE: Darin Mano, Dennis Faris, James Rogers, Ana Valdemoros, Chris Wharton, Daniel
      Dugan
      ABSENT: Amy Fowler
      Final Result: 6 – 0



Meeting adjourned at: 8:05 pm.

Minutes Approved: June 7, 2022


Dan Dugan
_______________________________
Dan Dugan (Nov 2, 2022 10:12 MDT)


City Council Chair




                                             9
                       MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
                              Tuesday, September 14, 2021


_______________________________
City Recorder

This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript as other items may have been
discussed; please refer to the audio or video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-
203(2)(b).

To listen to the audio recording of the meeting or view meeting materials, please visit Salt Lake
City Public Body Minutes library, available at www.data.slc.gov, selecting the Public Body
Minutes hyperlink. If you are viewing this file in the Minutes library, use the links on the right of
your screen within the ‘Document Relationships’ information to listen to the audio or view
meeting materials.

This document along with the digital recording constitutes the official minutes of the City
Council Work Session meeting held Tuesday, September 14, 2021.




                                                 10
September 14, 2021 Work Session Minutes
Final Audit Report                                                          2022-11-02

  Created:             2022-11-01

  By:                  Michelle Barney (michelle.barney@slcgov.com)

  Status:              Signed

  Transaction ID:      CBJCHBCAABAAnb-jbLguy2X1lWfBdGAPF5sfdNdrdet0




"September 14, 2021 Work Session Minutes" History
    Document created by Michelle Barney (michelle.barney@slcgov.com)
    2022-11-01 - 10:10:11 PM GMT


    Document emailed to daniel.dugan@slcgov.com for signature
    2022-11-01 - 10:11:00 PM GMT


    Email viewed by daniel.dugan@slcgov.com
    2022-11-02 - 4:11:51 PM GMT


    Signer daniel.dugan@slcgov.com entered name at signing as Dan Dugan
    2022-11-02 - 4:12:35 PM GMT


    Document e-signed by Dan Dugan (daniel.dugan@slcgov.com)
    Signature Date: 2022-11-02 - 4:12:37 PM GMT - Time Source: server


    Document emailed to Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com) for signature
    2022-11-02 - 4:12:39 PM GMT


    Document e-signed by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
    Signature Date: 2022-11-02 - 8:58:37 PM GMT - Time Source: server


    Agreement completed.
    2022-11-02 - 8:58:37 PM GMT
