                   MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                             TUESDAY, JUNE 9, 2020

The City Council of Salt Lake City, Utah, met in Formal Session on
Tuesday, June 9, 2020 in an electronic meeting pursuant to the Council
Chair determination and Salt Lake City Emergency Proclamation No. 2 of
2020 (2)(b).

     The following Council Members participated in the meeting:

           Chris Wharton          Analia Valdemoros   James Rogers
           Amy Fowler             Andrew Johnston     Daniel Dugan
           Darin Mano

     Cindy Gust-Jenson, Council Executive Director; Jennifer Bruno,
Council Executive Deputy Director; Erin Mendenhall, Mayor; Rachel Otto,
Mayor’s Chief of Staff; Katherine Lewis, City Attorney; and Scott
Crandall, Deputy City Recorder participated electronically.

     Councilmember Wharton presided at and conducted the meeting.

     The meeting was called to order at 7:16 p.m. 7:16:27 PM

OPENING CEREMONY

     #1.            Pledge of Allegiance (A moment of silence was held
           7:06:48 PM
           while the American Flag/Anthem was displayed on the video
           screen)

     #2.   7:07:34 PM   Welcome and Review of Standards of Conduct.

     Note: Opening Ceremonies were held as part of the June 9, 2020
combined Local Building Authority, Redevelopment Agency, and City
Council Formal agenda.

PUBLIC HEARINGS

     Note: 7:16:27 PM Public Hearings and General Comments were heard as
one item. Comments/materials submitted to the City Council have been
included as part of the official record. Click link to view
https://www.slc.gov/council/virtual-meeting-comments/

     #1. 11:39:44 PM Accept public comment about ordinance amendments to
regulate and monitor the City’s storm sewer system. The storm sewer
carries rainwater and melted snow through gutters and drains to an
underground system that flows to nearby rivers, canals, or creeks.
Sometimes pollutants in runoff may enter the storm sewer system and may
impact downstream rivers and lakes. While the City has adopted ordinances
to protect water quality, the proposed amendments more effectively meet
changing federal and State regulations to ensure stormwater quality

                                     20 - 1
                 MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                         TUESDAY, JUNE 9, 2020

standards. The amendments also deal with the City's enforcement of the
standards. View Attachment

     Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Johnston seconded to
close the public hearing and defer action to a future meeting, which
motion carried, all members voted aye (roll call).
(O 20-7)

     Note: Items 2 through 13 were addressed in one motion.

     #2. 11:40:55 PM Accept public comment regarding Grant Application:
Coronavirus Emergency Supplemental Funding Program for Fiscal Year 2020,
requesting from the Salt Lake City Police Department for Coronavirus
emergency funding in partnership with the Fire Department, Emergency
Management and Information Management Services (IMS). The funding would
only be utilized to prevent, prepare for, and respond to the Coronavirus.
View Attachment
(B 20-3)

     #3. Accept public comment regarding Grant Application: Assistance
to Firefighters Grant – Supplemental Personal Protective Equipment
(PPE), requesting from the Salt Lake City Fire Department for
reimbursement of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) purchased as a part
of the emergency response for COVID-19 for supplies depleted by the
response. The request consists of disposable supplies including masks,
gloves, isolation gowns, respirators and filters, and coveralls. View
Attachment
(B 20-3)

     #4. Accept public comment regarding Grant Application: Justice
Court Technology, Security and Training Account - iPads, requesting from
the Justice Court that would fund the purchase of 10 iPads to distribute
instructions to jurors, attorneys, and court personnel. The tablets will
also facilitate video hearing and conferencing. The use of tablets to
replace hard copies of instructions that are recycled following each
trial also supports the Court’s and the City’s commitment to sustainable
practices. View Attachment
(B 20-3)

     #5. Accept public comment regarding Grant Application: Justice
Court Technology, Security and Training Account – Headsets, requesting
from the Justice Court that would fund the purchase of 10 headsets to
facilitate video hearing and conferencing. The existing supply of
headsets is inadequate to support the new volume of use. View Attachment
(B 20-3)



                                 20 - 2
                 MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                         TUESDAY, JUNE 9, 2020

     #6. Accept public comment regarding Grant Application: Global
Ideas for U.S. Solutions: Cities Taking Action to Address Health, Equity,
and Climate Change 2020, requesting from the Department of Sustainability
that would fund two and half years of salary and benefits for a new,
full-time Project Manager as well as three months of wages and benefits
for the City to host a fellow from the Urban Sustainability Directors
Network Equity Diversity Inclusion Fellowship to assist with the project
in Fiscal Year 2021-22. The project will include the use of mobile
technology and digital platforms to identify strategies to address health
equity, and climate change for the City. View Attachment
(B 20-3)

     #7. Accept public comment regarding Grant Application: Summer 2020
Supplemental Grant for YouthCity – Central City, requesting from the
Division of Youth and Family Services that would provide funding support
to the YouthCity Central City summer programming for youth and families
during the COVID-19 pandemic. View Attachment
(B 20-3)

     #8. Accept public comment regarding Grant Application: Summer 2020
Supplemental Grant for YouthCity – Fairmont Park, requesting from the
Division of Youth and Family Services that would provide funding support
to the YouthCity Fairmont Park summer programming for youth and families
during the COVID-19 pandemic. View Attachment
(B 20-3)

     #9. Accept public comment regarding Grant Application: Summer 2020
Supplemental Grant for YouthCity – Liberty Park, requesting from the
Division of Youth and Family Services that would provide funding support
to the YouthCity Liberty Park summer programming for youth and families
during the COVID-19 pandemic. View Attachment
(B 20-3)

     #10. Accept public comment regarding Grant Application: Summer 2020
Supplemental Grant YouthCity – Sorenson Campus, requesting from the
Division of Youth and Family Services that would provide funding support
to the YouthCity Sorenson Campus summer programming for youth and
families during the COVID-19 pandemic. View Attachment
(B 20-3)

     #11. Accept public comment regarding Grant Application: Summer 2020
Supplemental Grant for YouthCity – Ottinger Hall, requesting from the
Division of Youth and Family Services that would provide funding support
to the YouthCity Ottinger Hall summer programming for youth and families
during the COVID-19 pandemic. View Attachment
(B 20-3)


                                 20 - 3
                 MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                          TUESDAY, JUNE 9, 2020

     #12. Accept public comment regarding Grant Application: Small Grant
Opportunity to Improve Children’s Health and Reduce Disparities, a
request from the Department of Sustainability that would support the
Salt Lake City Resident Food Equity program, a new initiative from the
Department. The aim of the program is to create an equitable community
food system through a community engagement process which increases input
from marginalized, vulnerable communities. The program also aims to set
policy and programming recommendations for the City. View Attachment
(B 20-3)

     #13. Accept public comment regarding Grant Application: Arts and
Transportation Rapid Response Grant, a request from Salt Lake Department
of Community and Neighborhoods and Division of Transportation, in
collaboration with Salt Lake Division of Art and Culture and the Salt
Lake City Arts Council, that would provide funding for a stipend to an
artist chosen by the granting agency to create public art projects in
the City that creatively and quickly address pandemic-related
transportation challenges. View Attachment
(B 20-3)

     Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded to
close the public hearing and refer Items 2-13 to a future Consent Agenda
for action, which motion carried, all members voted aye (roll call).

COMMENTS TO THE CITY COUNCIL 7:20:46 PM

     The following spoke about issues relating to the City’s Police
Department/budget: Sarah May, Elizabeth Hawley, Maquira Brock, Rhyannon
Rodriguez, Zac Johnson, Erin Moore, Daniel Montoya, Erika Wynn, Emily
Alworth, Natasha Wong, Anne Charles, Scout Cohen-Pope, Maya Jolley, Ian
Lowell, Sai Parsawar, Isabel Deiss, Stella Puckett, Dayan Castañeda
Muñoz, Christin Olson, Katie Mulliken, Nicholas Klein-Baer, Kathryn Van
Sleen, Annelise Davis, Francis Taylor, Hanna Larsen, Alexandra Acuna,
Alison Rosenbloom, Zachary Mallender, Sara Roller, Kat Athay, Kate Foley,
Jake Lyman, James Porter, Blake Newman, Nicole Hemmingsen, Myles Varga,
Rusti Stalliviere, Ariel Flores, William Santee, Tatiana Christian,
Pablo Gandahari, Tess Bybee, Stephanie Finley, Simone Longo, Aidan Croft,
Devon Essick, Elizabeth Chamberlain, Ben Finley, Mario Lopez, Gabbi
Lemanski, Gunar Cottle, Hailee Henson, Marina Marqueza, Michael Allen,
Jason Carrillo, Natasha Cadet, Megan Hanshaw, Mackenzie Nelson, Cody
Kirkland, Helen Lindamood, Henry Hartzler, Emmett Wilson, Eric Milican,
Jean Lasarre, Jeramie Mcdonough, Kev Nemelka, Kristina Smith, Kianie
DeJesus, Leticia Blanchard, Joanna Lynch, John York, Ashlyn Anderson,
Covia Goddard, Emma Roberts, Sierra Knapp, Landon Young, Nina Vought,
Dani Nives, Hanna Wilson, Katie Andresen, Casey Donahue, Kyli Rodriguez-
Cayro, Nikita Abraham, Olivia Kavapalu, Roah Biesinger, Chris Lancaster,
Rebecca Hardenbrook, Charles Athay, Quinten Monson/Shyann Larsen, Willow

                                 20 - 4
                 MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                          TUESDAY, JUNE 9, 2020

Skye-Biggs, Amy Mason, Tyler Matsamas, Finn Christensen, Sarah Dyer,
Becky Heiss, Lou McKee, Mel Martinez, Emily Golitzin, Kristina Sewell,
Angela Charles, Jessica Arthurs, Colette Haslam, Sage Paterson,
Elizabeth Borghetti, Jordan Hendricks, Ben Soper, David Kunonez, Erin
Van Campen, Oliver Antuna-Valencia, Nora Price, Andrew Pool, Alli Matyja,
David B., Saige Wheaton, Katy Roxy, Tucky White/Ariel, Alec Gehrke, Call
in user 7763/Casey, and Pizairia Warren. Comments included reducing
budget by $30 million (reinvest in community programs, social services,
housing, public transportation, health care, homeless services, etc.),
police   brutality/harassment,     minorities/persons    of   color   being
targeted/harassed, police not being equipped to deal with social
problems/homelessness/mental health issues/domestic violence, etc.,
community distrust of police, enforcing hiring freeze of new officers,
raising/mandating education requirements, demanding Police Chief Brown’s
resignation/termination, execution/murder of persons of color including
Bernardo Palacios, George Floyd, etc., eliminate qualified immunity
provision, charge/prosecute/terminate officers involved in Bernardo’s
death, suspend officers pensions, violating citizens constitutional
rights, excessive number of shots fired at Bernardo, de-escalation
techniques, feeling unsafe in community, militarized police force not
needed, pursuing efficient/meaningful reform, change current culture
(relying on community leaders to address problems rather than militarized
police force), opportunity to restructure police functions, delay
proposed $84 million budget to discuss/explore funding other programs,
police reform followed by abolition (community members being ready to
take on more responsibility), police expressing willingness to embrace
reform, police practices spreading Coronavirus, increase use of body
cameras, distribute funding to organizations that were adequately
trained to work with disadvantaged communities, failing politics,
empowering community members, providing justice for Bernardo, repealing
laws that criminalize the survival of citizens, police violence
throughout the country, suspend paid administrative leave for officers
under investigation, hire more officers of color, banning choke holds,
firing officers with excessive force complaints, City should hold itself
accountable   (not    just   police),   unjust   curfew    implemented   to
discriminate/arrest protesters, continuing acts of violence by police,
restitution    needed     for    people    arrested    unjustly,     racial
profiling/systemic racism, require good officers to report bad behavior
of other officers, dehumanizing community members, Council being willing
to review current laws/systems, police wanting to be recognized as
heroes, transparency of police officers, de-escalation training and
holding officers accountable being ineffective (police reform not
working), willfully ignoring citizen demands, listen to constituent
needs, independent third-party unbiased review needed of any incident of
force, Police Department being overfunded, disproportionate level of
police presence at protests, utilization of non-lethal methods to subdue
people,    giving    Civilian    Review    Board    more    authority    to

                                  20 - 5
                 MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                         TUESDAY, JUNE 9, 2020

discipline/terminate officers, limit police labor contract to one year
(giving time to develop contract that works for everyone, not protecting
police), abolish police unions, release names of officers enacting
violence on community members in a timely manner, more transparency from
Mayor/Council, police having no legal duty to protect/serve, people of
color being more likely to be killed by police, removing police from
schools, current policing practices being immoral/unjust, protect
marginalized communities, screen officers for any ties to white supremacy
groups, nationwide movement to defund police, ban purchase of military
equipment, stronger oversight/significant reform, history of racist
policing/profiling, provide an itemized budget for transparency (budget
being difficult to understand), Salt Lake City being located on stolen
land, anger/sadness/hate from both sides being disturbing, and need for
re-call laws.

     Amy Hartman said she mainly wanted to listen but spoke about the
need for additional mental health services which were grossly inadequate
(have correct personnel in appropriate positions).

     George Chapman spoke about the danger/consequences of defunding
police (who would respond to dangerous situations), officers saving
lives/providing help, requesting Council/Mayor to publicize actions of
the many officers who saved lives, people needing to drop weapons when
commanded to do so, and encouraging people to stay involved (attending
Community Council meetings to interact with Council/Mayor).

     Christin Parks said she was an ex-police officer and found the
anger/sadness/hate from both sides disturbing. She said when on the job,
she tried to be a positive influence and help everyone in need. She
expressed concerns about issues arising from not having an adequate
police presence (protecting babies from being molested, keeping
streets/neighborhoods safe, etc.). She encouraged everyone to come
together from both sides and listen/address issues and understand there
were consequences for a person’s behavior.

     Emily Holt spoke in favor of not defunding police, being grateful
for officers in neighborhoods (being responsive), and being proud of how
policed handled rioting/looting. She asked elected officials to listen
to long-term residents (not transient students) in making long-lasting
decisions. She said she agreed limiting police contracts might be a good
solution to consider (reevaluate each year).

     Mac (no last name) talked about listening to vast majority who
support police, people being afraid to speak out for fear of
hate/backlash for having a different view of small minority, police being
essential to citizen safety/wellbeing, constant presence of criminals,


                                 20 - 6
                 MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                         TUESDAY, JUNE 9, 2020

and negative impact of defunding police (minority not understanding value
of police).

     Sherry Cardon and Kinsee Sprague said they only wanted to listen.

     The following were not available when their names were called
(either left the meeting or had audio problems): Caitlin Lopez, Tana
Frechem, Chanel Gates, Anthony Roberts Jeremy Stockman, Kerry Lehtinen,
Kelsey Jensen, Katie Warner, Caroline Lewis, Anna Gallegos, Kathy Adams,
Andrew Alba, River Jude-August, Jacqueline H., McKenna Gunderson, and
Carlos Herrera.

QUESTIONS TO THE MAYOR FROM THE CITY COUNCIL

     There were no questions.

POTENTIAL ACTION ITEMS

     #1. 11:42:49 PM Adopting an ordinance amending the final budget of
Salt Lake City, including the employment staffing document, for Fiscal
Year 2019-2020. Budget amendments happen several times each year to
reflect adjustments to the City’s budgets, including proposed project
additions and modifications. The proposed amendment includes $2 million
to repair damage to City-owned buildings caused by the 5.7 earthquake
series and $1.5 million from the Volkswagen diesel emissions settlement
to replace 11 of the City’s diesel trucks, among other changes. The
Council may also consider funding for public safety overtime and
emergencies response costs incurred to-date (Budget Amendment No. 6).
View Attachment

     Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Dugan seconded to
adopt Ordinance 17 of 2020, ordinance amending the Fiscal Year 2019-2020
final budget of Salt Lake City as proposed by the Administration, except
Item D-7 which was previously adopted, and two Council-added items as
shown on the motion sheet.
   • I-1: Release $150,000 from Holding Account for 2020 Jurisdictions
     with Halfway House and Parole Violator Centers Grant;
   • I-2: Funding for Public Safety Overtime and Emergencies Response
     Costs Incurred to-date ($988,000 from Fund Balance to Non-
     departmental), which motion carried, all members voted aye (roll
     call).
(B 20-7)

NEW BUSINESS

     #1. 11:45:06 PM Approving the appointment of Lisa Shaffer as the Salt


                                 20 - 7
                  MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                          TUESDAY, JUNE 9, 2020

Lake City Chief Administrative Office. View Attachment

     Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded to
approve the appointment, which motion carried, all members voted aye
(roll call).
(I 20-16)

     #2. 11:46:35 PM Approving the appointment of Aaron Bentley as the
Salt Lake City Chief Information Officer (Director of Information
Management Services or IMS). View Attachment

     Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Valdemoros seconded to
approve the appointment, which motion carried, all members voted aye
(roll call).
(I 20-17)

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

     #1. 11:47:46 PM Approving a resolution authorizing the issuance and
sale of not more than $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Public
Utilities revenue bonds, series 2020, related to water, sewer, and storm
water capital improvements. The Council's action includes authorizing
the execution of a supplemental indenture, a bond purchase agreement,
and other documents as required. View Attachment

     Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Dugan seconded to
adopt Resolution 19 of 2020, authorizing the issuance and sale of Public
Utilities revenue bonds related to water, sewer, and storm water capital
improvements and setting a public hearing date of July 7, 2020, which
motion carried, all members voted aye (roll call).
(Q 20-1)

CONSENT 11:49:07 PM

     Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Mano seconded to
approve the Consent Agenda, which motion carried, all members voted aye
(roll call).

     #1. Setting the date of Tuesday, July 14, 2020 and Tuesday, August
11, 2020 at 7:00 p.m. to accept public comment and consider adopting a
resolution for project funding allocations in the Capital Improvement
Program (CIP), which involves the construction, purchase or renovation
of buildings, parks, streets or other physical structures. Generally,
projects have a useful life of five or more years and cost $50,000 or
more (Capital Improvement Program Projects). View Attachment
(B 20-1)


                                 20 - 8
                 MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                         TUESDAY, JUNE 9, 2020

     The meeting adjourned at 11:50 p.m.


______________________________
Council Chair


______________________________
City Recorder


     This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript as
additional discussion may have been held; please refer to the audio or
video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203(2)(b).

     This document along with the digital recording constitute the
official minutes of the Salt Lake City Formal Session held June 9, 2020.

sc




                                 20 - 9
