                   MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                             TUESDAY, JUNE 16, 2020

The City Council of Salt Lake City, Utah, met in Formal Session on
Tuesday, June 16, 2020 in an electronic meeting pursuant to Salt Lake
City Emergency Proclamation No. 2 of 2020 (2)(b).

     The following Council Members participated in the meeting:

           Chris Wharton          Analia Valdemoros   James Rogers
           Amy Fowler             Andrew Johnston     Daniel Dugan
           Darin Mano

     Cindy Gust-Jenson, Council Executive Director; Jennifer Bruno,
Council Executive Deputy Director; Erin Mendenhall, Mayor; Rachel Otto,
Mayor’s Chief of Staff; Robert Nutzman, Council Administrative
Assistant; Amanda Lau, Public Engagement & Communications Specialist;
Katherine Lewis, City Attorney; Cindy Lou Trishman, City Recorder; and
DeeDee Robinson, Deputy City Recorder participated electronically.

     Councilmember Wharton presided at and conducted the meeting.

     The meeting was called to order at 7:05 p.m. 7:04:56 PM

OPENING CEREMONY

     #1.            Pledge of Allegiance (A moment of silence was held
           7:05:20 PM
           while the American Flag/Anthem was displayed on the video
           screen)

     #2.   7:06:08 PM   Welcome and Review of Standards of Conduct.

     #3. 7:15:18 PM Councilmember Rogers moved and Councilmember Fowler
seconded to approve the Formal Meeting minutes of Tuesday, May 5, 2020,
which motion carried, all members voted aye (roll call). View Minutes
(M 20-3)

     Note: Comments/materials submitted to the City Council have been
attached as part of the official record. Click here to view:
https://www.slc.gov/council/virtual-meeting-comments/

COMMENTS TO THE CITY COUNCIL 7:18:09 PM

     The following spoke about issues relating to the City’s Police
Department/budget: Emily Alworth, Ann Charles, Amy Hartman, Devin
Lindley, Kevin Kruse, James Porter, Eric Sheffield, Gunar Cottle, Sonja
Nitschke, Maeve Wall, Gabby Lemanski, Jamie Loewen, Sam Johnston, Scout
Cohen-Pope, Alli Matyja, Mel Martinez, Morgan Mickles, Ellie Smith, Amy
Burrows, Angela Charles, Erin Moore, Ashley Engeler, Evelyn Houpt, Jackie
May, Jennifer Magana, Natalie Christensen, Josh Kivlovitz, Brandon Ngo,

                                     20 - 1
                    MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                           TUESDAY, JUNE 16, 2020

Jake Lyman, Summer Vazquez, Molli Guthrie, Goldin Fillmore, Emmett
Wilson, Yohanes Frezgi, Zachary Bartholomew, Chantel Cook and Emma
Roberts.   Comments   included:   support   for   defunding    the   Police
Department/cutting budget by $30 million, Mayor/Council not doing
enough, ensuring Police officers pay for their own court settlements,
prosecute officers for mistreatment of people, Council being in a
position to make substantive change for unrepresented individuals,
community policing not being effective (means to disenfranchise people),
money needed to build a more just/sustainable City, Council being
complicit in the system of oppression, more investment needed for
citizens/communities   (education,   healthcare,    homelessness,    mental
health, etc.), Police unions wielding too much power, listen/learn from
minority populations first, body cams/tasers being expensive and
ineffective, support for a commission on racial equity & policing, Police
Chief Brown being biased/not fit to run department, allocate more funding
to people of color/marginalized communities, redefining public safety as
a whole, invest in educating the public on the proper use of 911, people
experiencing grief over death from Police violence, increased community
oversight   (transparency    to   community),    and    Police    being   a
dangerous/toxic force in the community.

     Jared Johnson, Cynthia Farnam-Stella, and David Jenson expressed
concerns with defunding the Police. Comments included: lowered response
times, not having necessary equipment, Police already overwhelmed,
safety concerns, and more training/body cameras being needed.

     7:36:46 PM Dave Iltis said he was opposed to the appointment of
Senator Karen Mayne for the Airport Advisory Board (not acting in the
best interest of the City). He encouraged the Council to re-name the
police department to “Peace Department” (changing the focus to peace
rather than police), and approve budget/funding for maintenance of multi-
modal infrastructure (fix green bike lanes/other bike infrastructure).

     7:38:48    Jackson Colavecchia expressed concerns regarding the
               PM
general political trends in the United States, and how that related to
the culture/implications of the Salt Lake City Police Department.

     7:42:08 PM George Chapman said hiring should continue for minorities
and women in the Police force (not enough of either), more body cams
were needed, require POST certified officers to testify on critical
incidents, Liberty Park users wanting police patrolling the park,
community councils wanting more police/walking patrols (discouraging
illegal activity), and utilizing Federal Emergency Management Act (FEMA)
funding to house homeless (like other cities).

     7:48:04 PM Lisa Hazel said she was opposed to the appointment of
Karen Mayne to the Airport Advisory Board (she did not have Salt Lake

                                   20 - 2
                  MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                         TUESDAY, JUNE 16, 2020

City in mind), and agreed with renaming the police department to “Peace
Department” (definition alone would deter officers from shooting
people).

     8:24:31 PM Tammy Rasmussen applauded the Council for increasing
funding for the Police Department and said the public had responded
emotionally/knee-jerk before researching.

     8:37:18 PMSavannah Lavenstein said she worked with doctors/nurses
who came into frequent contact with dangerous/armed persons in the
emergency room, and whom were trained in de-escalation before training
in restraining (physical/chemical), proving it could be handled without
harming/killing people.

     8:39:25 PM Karen Montano said she was a social worker for the Police
Department and appreciated the support of officers she worked with. She
urged the City not to use social workers as a blanket for community
issues, and making serious changes to support communities of color
(overall health and wellbeing).

     9:00:40 PM Emily (no last name) said the Council was not respecting
the community (policing language during Council meetings) and were
ignoring/mischaracterizing a broad coalition of well-informed/passionate
citizens.

QUESTIONS TO THE MAYOR FROM THE CITY COUNCIL

     There were no questions.

POTENTIAL ACTION ITEMS

              Note: Ordinances listed below (1-11) were associated with
     9:09:58 PM
the implementation of the Mayor’s Recommended Budget for Salt Lake City,
including the Library Fund, for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2020-2021. View
Overall Motion Sheet

     #1. Adopting an ordinance appropriating necessary funds to
implement, for Fiscal Year 2020-2021, the provisions of the Memorandum
of Understanding (MOU) between Salt Lake City Corporation and the
American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME)
Local 1004, representing eligible employees. View Attachment

     Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded to
adopt Ordinance 18 of 2020, which motion carried, all members voted aye
(roll call).
(O 20-9)


                                 20 - 3
                 MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                        TUESDAY, JUNE 16, 2020

     #2. Adopting an ordinance approving a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) between Salt Lake City Corporation and the American Federation of
State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) Local 1004, representing
eligible employees pursuant to the Collective Bargaining and Employee
Representation Joint Resolution dated March 22, 2011, which shall become
effective on proper ratification and signature. View Attachment
(O 20-9)

     Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded to
adopt Ordinance 19 of 2020, which motion carried, all members voted aye
(roll call).
(O 20-9)

     #3. Adopting an ordinance appropriating the necessary funds to
implement, for Fiscal Year 2020-21, the provisions of the Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) between Salt Lake City Corporation and the
International Association of Firefighters Local 81, representing
eligible employees. View Attachment

     Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded to
adopt Ordinance 20 of 2020, which motion carried, all members voted aye
(roll call).
(O 18-9)

     #4. Adopting an ordinance approving a compensation plan for all
non-represented employees of Salt Lake City. View Attachment

     Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded to
adopt Ordinance 21 of 2020, which motion carried, all members voted aye
(roll call).
(O 20-10)

     #5. Adopting an ordinance appropriating necessary funds to
implement, for Fiscal Year 2020-21, the provisions of the Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) between Salt Lake City Corporation and the Salt Lake
Police Association, representing eligible employees. View Attachment

     Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded to
adopt Ordinance 22 of 2020, which motion carried, all members voted aye
(roll call).
(O 17-7)

     #6. Adopting an ordinance approving a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) between Salt Lake City and the Salt Lake City Police Association,
representing eligible employees for Fiscal Year 2020-21. View Attachment



                                20 - 4
                 MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                         TUESDAY, JUNE 16, 2020

     Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded to
adopt Ordinance 23 of 2020, which motion carried, all members voted aye
(roll call).
(O 17-7)

     #7. Approving an ordinance adopting the rate of tax levy, including
the levy for the Library Fund, upon all real and personal property within
Salt Lake City made taxable by law for Fiscal Year 2020-21. View
Attachment

Motion 3: Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded
to adopt Ordinance 24 of 2020, setting the final rate of tax levy,
including the final levy for the Library Fund, upon all real and personal
property within Salt Lake City, made taxable by law for Fiscal Year 2020-
21 as listed on the motion sheet, and authorize the Council Chair to
sign the necessary documentation for the State Tax Commission.
     A tax of .004623 on each dollar of taxable valuation of which:
  a) .002942 shall be credited as revenue in the General Fund,
     generating $87,457,430 of on-going revenue; and
  b) .000015 shall be credited to the judgment levy for the General Fund,
     a one-year adjustment generating $456,267 of one-time revenue; and
  c) .000713 shall be credited toward repayment of General Obligation
     Bonds, generating $21,196,660 of on-going revenue; and
  d) .000680 shall be credited as revenue in the special Library Fund,
     generating $20,651,134 of on-going revenue; and
  e) .000003 shall be credited to the judgment levy for the Library Fund,
     a one-year adjustment generating $87,748 of one-time revenue, which
     motion carried, all members voted aye (roll call).
(B 20-1)(B 20-2)

     #8. Approving an ordinance adopting the budget for the Library
Fund of Salt Lake City, Utah for Fiscal Year 2020-21. View Attachment

Motion 2: Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded
to adopt Ordinance 25 of 2020, approving the budget for the Library Fund
of Salt Lake City for Fiscal Year 2020-2021, which motion carried, all
members voted aye (roll call).
(B 20-2)

     #9. Approving an ordinance amending various fees and fee
information set forth in the Salt Lake City Consolidated Fee Schedule
(CFS). View Attachment

     Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded to
adopt Ordinance 26 of 2020, which motion carried, all members voted aye
(roll call).
(O 17-3)

                                 20 - 5
                 MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                         TUESDAY, JUNE 16, 2020

     #10. Approving an ordinance adopting the budget for Salt Lake City,
Utah, excluding the budget for the Library Fund which is separately
adopted, and the employment staffing document of Salt Lake City, Utah
for Fiscal Year 2020-21. View Attachment

Motion 1: Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded
to adopt Ordinance 27 of 2020, approving Salt Lake City’s Fiscal Year
2020-2021 budget as outlined in the attached key changes spreadsheets
and staffing document, excluding the schedule for capital projects and
debt and the Library Fund, which motion carried, all members voted aye
(roll call).
(B 20-1)

Motion 4: Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded
to adopt $30,895,400 to be transferred into Capital Improvement Program
(CIP), including approving $13,064,760 in funding for annual debt
service, as detailed in the Mayor’s Recommended CIP Budget, and with the
understanding that funding for CIP projects will be considered separately
later this year, which motion carried, all members voted aye (roll call).

Motion 5: Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded
to adopt the Legislative Intent Statements as outlined on the motion
sheet under Motion 5, Items A through O, which motion carried, all
members voted aye (roll call).
     a. Police Department Role - It is the intent of the Council to re-
        evaluate the role the City asks the Police Department to play,
        and the budget to fulfill that role, and ask the Administration
        to evaluate moving certain programs out of the Police Department,
        like park rangers and social workers, and potentially add a
        function to the Human Resources Department to enhance the
        independence of the Internal Affairs unit.

     b. Police Department Zero-based Budget Exercise - It is the intent
        of the Council to hire an independent auditor to evaluate each
        line item in the Police Department budget with the goal of
        conducting a zero-based budget exercise, which takes the budget
        apart and builds it back in a way that aligns with the policy
        goals of the Council, Mayor and public. A report back to the
        Council would happen in September, or sooner if possible.

     c. CARES Act Funding - The Council intends to use forthcoming CARES
        act funding to prioritize the community needs consistent with
        the equity principles being discussed.

     d. Ban Military Equipment - The Council intends to work with the
        Attorney’s Office to create an ordinance that prohibits the City
        from accepting grant awards for federal military equipment. The

                                 20 - 6
            MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                    TUESDAY, JUNE 16, 2020

  ordinance may include any      foreseeable   exceptions   for   the
  Council’s consideration.

e. Police Department Reporting Ordinance - The Council intends to
   work with the Attorney’s Office to create an ordinance that
   establishes reporting requirements for internal information
   collected by and related to the Police Department.

f. Tuition Reimbursement and Police Officer Education - It is the
   intent of the Council to encourage the Administration to assure
   that the City’s tuition reimbursement program is accessible to
   Police Department staff members and that the Police Department
   has a system to provide the flexibility necessary for staff to
   seek degrees, particularly in fields that relate to public
   safety, human relations, communications, community building,
   criminal justice, psychology and other areas that add value to
   their work. Further, the Council encourages the Administration
   to include strong advanced education requirements in their
   promotion and hiring process.

g. CIP and County Transportation Funds - It is the intent of the
   Council that future years Quarter-Cent County Transportation
   Funds go through a process that involves community input and
   considers other CIP needs, potentially combined with a redefined
   CIP process.

h. Communicating Impact of Budget Reductions - It is the intent of
   the Council that the Administration return with a communication
   strategy to inform the public about the likelihood of reduced
   service levels in City parks and public lands due to budget
   reductions.

i. Golf CIP Fund Plan - It is the intent of the Council that the
   Administration clarify the long-term plan for the Golf Enterprise
   Fund’s CIP fund.

j. Historic Park Design Guidelines - It is the intent of the Council
   that a briefing with the Administration be scheduled in order to
   discuss the steps and funding necessary to create design
   guidelines for the City's historic parks. Next steps would be
   identified pending the briefing discussion.

k. 4th Avenue Well Noise Reduction - It is the intent of the Council
   that the Department of Public Utilities continues to consider
   additional noise-reducing options for the new 4th Avenue Well
   project.


                            20 - 7
                 MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                         TUESDAY, JUNE 16, 2020

     l. Fund Balance Floor Goal - The Council intends to continue the
        legislative intent from last year setting a minimum fund balance
        “floor” at 14%.

     m. Transfer Housing Trust Fund Development Loans and Payments - The
        Council intends to transfer the Housing Trust Fund’s housing
        development-loan-related balances and payments to be overseen by
        the RDA. During FY20, HAND and the RDA developed a detailed
        “housing framework” for consideration by the RDA Board and the
        Council. These bodies may wish to schedule time once the FY21
        budget is complete to finalize this work, which may include
        changes to City ordinances and/or board policies.

     n. Calculate RDA Legislation Impacts - It is the intent of the
        Council that the Finance Department and the RDA work together to
        calculate the impact on City resources of changes proposed in
        2019 and 2020 to State RDA legislation.

     o. Decriminalization Review of City Code - It is the intent of the
        Council that an in-depth review be conducted of the City Code to
        consider items that could be de-criminalized. Council staff could
        work with Council Members and the City Attorney’s Office to draft
        a scope and come back with a report on the timeline.

     #11. Adopting an ordinance that would facilitate the uniform
regulation of Enterprise Funds payments in lieu of taxes. View Attachment

     Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded to
adopt Ordinance 28 of 2020, which motion carried, all members voted aye
(roll call).
(O 20-8)

     9:14:15 PM Council Members Mano, Valdemoros, Dugan, Fowler, Wharton,
and Johnston made statements regarding racial equality, justice reform,
understanding frustrations, and continuing to work with/communicate with
the community.

     9:26:12 PM Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Dugan
seconded that the Council schedule a budget amendment for September to
consider any additional budget adjustments that would be identified
through the preliminary work of the Racial Equity & Policing Commission
and through the zero-based budgeting, and for Council Staff to report
back at the next Council meeting regarding the efforts other communities
are making and what they are doing to address implicit bias and
systematic racism, particularly as it relates to the budget, which motion
carried, all members voted aye (roll call).


                                 20 - 8
                     MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                            TUESDAY, JUNE 16, 2020

NEW BUSINESS

     #1. 9:29:33 PM Approving the appointment of Lorna Vogt as the Salt
Lake City Director of Public Services. View Attachment

     Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded to
approve the appointment, which motion carried, all members voted aye
(roll call).
(I 20-18)

CONSENT 9:31:03 PM

     Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Mano seconded to
approve the Consent Agenda with the exception of Item 2 (to be considered
at a later date), which motion carried, all members voted aye (roll
call).

     #1. Confirming the date of Tuesday, July 7, 2020 at 7:00 p.m. to
accept public comment regarding a resolution authorizing the issuance
and sale of not more than $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of
Public Utilities revenue bonds, series 2020, related to water, sewer,
and storm water capital improvements. The Council's action includes
authorizing the execution of a supplemental indenture, a bond purchase
agreement, and other documents as required. View Attachment
(Q 20-1)

     #2. Approving the reappointment of Senator Karen Mayne to the
Airport Advisory Board for a term ending December 25, 2023. View
Attachment
(I 20-19)

     #3. Approving the appointment of Van Turner to the Mosquito
Abatement District Board for a term ending December 31, 2024. This is a
Council-appointed position, therefore an Administrative Recommendation
letter is not included.
(I 20-3)

     #4. Approving the appointment of Ashley Cleveland to the Human
Rights Commission for a term ending December 26, 2022. View Attachment
(I 20-20)

     The meeting adjourned at 9:32 p.m.




                                    20 - 9
                 MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL

                         TUESDAY, JUNE 16, 2020


______________________________
Council Chair


______________________________
City Recorder


     This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript as
additional discussion may have been held; please refer to the audio or
video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203(2)(b).

     This document along with the digital recording constitute the
official minutes of the Salt Lake City Formal Session held June 16, 2020.

dr




                                 20 - 10
