> Source: (not recorded — see minutes_index.csv)
> Meeting date: 2020-11-10
> Format: ocr

---

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2020 
 
 
20 - 1
 
The City Council met in Work Session on Tuesday, November 10, 2020, 
in an Electronic Meeting, pursuant to the Chair determination 
and Salt Lake City Emergency Proclamation No. 2 of 2020(2)(b). 
 
In Attendance: Council Members Chris Wharton, James Rogers, Amy 
Fowler, Andrew Johnston, Daniel Dugan, and Darin Mano. 
 
Absent: Councilmember Analia Valdemoros. 
 
Staff in Attendance: Cindy Gust-Jenson, Council Executive 
Director; Jennifer Bruno, Council Executive Deputy Director; Erin 
Mendenhall, Mayor; Katherine Lewis, City Attorney; Lisa Shaffer, 
Chief Administrative Officer; Allison Rowland, Council 
Public Policy Analyst, Benjamin Luedtke, Council Policy Analyst; 
Lehua Weaver, Council Associate Deputy Director; Amanda Lau, 
Council Staff Assistant; Robert Nutzman, Council Administrative 
Assistant; Sam Owen, Council Policy Analyst; Laura Briefer, Public 
Utilities Director; Stephanie Duer, Public Utilities Water 
Conservation Manager; Mary Beth Thompson, Chief Financial Officer; 
and Scott Crandall, Deputy City Recorder. 
 
Guests in Attendance : Dante James, Racial Equity and Policing 
Commission (REP) Commission Facilitator; Siobhan Locke, REP 
Commission Facilitator; Josh King, REP Commission Facilitator; and 
Larry Schooler, REP Commission Facilitator. 
 
 Councilmember Wharton presided at and conducted the meeting. 
 
The meeting was called to order at 3:52 p.m. 3:52:30 PM 
 
AGENDA ITEMS 
 
#1. 3:53:43 PM Informational: Updates on Racial Equity and 
Policing. The Council will hold a discussion about recent efforts 
on various projects City staff are working on related to racial 
equity and policing in the City. The conversation may include 
issues of community concern about race, equity, and justice in 
relation to law enforcement policies, procedures, budget, and 
ordinances. Discussion may include: 
 An update or report on the newly-created Commission on Racial 
Equity in Policing; and 
 Other project updates or discussion. View Attachments

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2020 
 
 
20 - 2
 
Dante James, Siobhan Locke, Josh King, and Larry Schooler 
briefed the Council on the following: 
 
 Status/accomplishments/background of newly created Commission 
(mainly information gathering/research stage) 
 Creation/activities of new sub-committees: 
o School Safety - Siobhan Locke (focus on School Resource 
Officers (SROs), disparities in the SRO system 
disproportionally impacting students of color, and the 
school-to-prison pipeline) 
o Policy and Practices Josh King (focus on three areas: use 
of force, personnel practices/accountability, and funding) 
o Training - Dante James (focus on engaging with officers and 
other staff to gain an understanding of the climate/culture 
within the department) 
o Listening/Community Engagement - Larry Schooler (focus on 
determining goals, ways the public could engage with the 
commission, as well as facilitate collaboration with the 
commission and the public on each aspect of decisions related 
to the future of policing in the City) 
 
 
o When the Council communicated with their constituents, talk 
about the work the committee was doing and the importance of 
 was noted. 
o When listening sessions became solidified, ensure 
constituents were notified to enable reaching a wide audience 
(and possibly providing welcome/framing comments at the 
beginning of a listening session)
 
#2. 4:22:31 PM 
Proclamations Declaring Local Emergencies for COVID-19, March 
Earthquake, and Windstorm. The Council will receive an update from 
relating to COVID-19 (coronavirus), the March 18th earthquake in 
the Salt Lake Valley, and the September 8th windstorm. As part of 
the update, the Council may discuss public health and other public 
safety, policy and budget issues stemming from the emergency 
declarations. The Council may also receive information or updates 
from organizations or experts related to the emergency responses 
and coordination, including but not limited to earthquake damage 
to the City, the functioning of the Emergency Operations Center 
(EOC), City response and aid, and the status of City buildings.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2020 
 
 
20 - 3
 
Mayor Mendenhall briefed the Council on the following: 
 
COVID-19 Updates: 
 7-day average positivity rate in Salt Lake County at 24% (one 
out of every 50 people were active with the virus) 
 -19 executive 
orders/mandates (infection rates, enforcement issues, etc.) 
 -19 website providing information regarding 
reporting violation of orders. 
 
Homelessness Updates: 
 Community Commitment Program having engaged intensive outreach 
in the 700 South area (October 15 to October 23) 
 120 placement offers were made to 90 persons in recent outreach 
effort 
 Various City partners providing available resources 
 Winter shelter opportunities (two over-flow shelter locations 
identified contract discussions underway) with over 200 beds 
provided/added 
 Details of the Strategies Plan 
 
 Councilmember Mano inquired what the Council could do (those 
who represented the affected neighborhoods) to assist implementing 
the Homeless Resource Center Neighborhood Action Strategies (what 
level of outreach was needed, which strategies needed to take 
precedence, etc.). Mayor Mendenhall said there was the potential 
for small group meetings to discuss funding opportunities. 
 
#3. 4:29:58 PM Informational: Updates on Relieving the 
Condition of People Experiencing Homelessness . The Council will 
hear updates and discuss issues pertaining to relieving the 
condition of people experiencing homelessness in neighborhoods 
throughout Salt Lake City. 
 
Mayor Mendenhall briefed the Council on the following: 
 Overflow shelter (Vincent St. DePaul opened October 15, 2020 
 capacity for 40 individuals) 
 Providing flu shots on 500 West 
 COVID testing available on 500 South
 Available services from numerous providers 
 80 motels vouchers being made available for women and couples 
 Stay Safe, Stay Home Motel having additional capacity (15 beds)

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2020 
 
 
20 - 4
 
 Councilmember Wharton inquired if there was anything the 
Council could do to support other various jurisdictions that would 
be hosting shelters. Mayor Mendenhall said when it was known which 
jurisdictions were providing services, the Council would be 
informed and said it would be a nice gesture for the City to reach 
out to their City teams and be of support. 
 
#4. 4:39:20 PM Resolution: 2020 Salt Lake City Water 
Conservation Plan. The Council will be briefed about the Department 
addition to other State and regional guidelines and industry best 
practices. Guidelines for plan development, as well as 
requirements in the conservation plans, include: 
 Water supply; 
 Historical water demand;
 Water conservation goals; 
 Conservation program information; and 
 Adoption or approval by each water provider's governing 
body. 
The State Conservation Plan Act requires all water providers 
with more than 5,000 connections to submit a water conservation 
plan to the State every five years for review and approval. 
Implementation of the Water Conservation Program is included in 
the Public Utilities proposed budget each year. View Attachment 
 
Sam Owen provided a brief overview of the 2020 City Water 
Conservation Plan and indicated the next public hearing was 
scheduled for December 1, 2020 with potential Council action as 
soon as December 8, 2020 (facilitating adoption within the timeline 
set by the statute). 
 
Stephanie Duer reviewed elements of the plan, including: 
 Implications for entire service area/water capacity 
 Water conservation goals - factors included outcomes from the 
Salt Lake City Supply & Demand Study (finalized in 2019) and 
as estimates of 
supply 
 Plan addressing all water customers 
 Supply and demand (reservoir capacities, 
culinary/secondary/gray water usage, demographic factors being 
predictive of demand, etc.)

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2020 
 
 
20 - 5
 
 Historical use (since 2001: 27.7% reduction in total demand, 
31% reduction in peak day demand - having saved 16,000 acre-
feet of water each year) 
 Water use classifications and sub-classifications (used to 
collect/analyze water use for water conservation planning 
purposes) 
 Past and projected water conservation trend (2000-2065) 
 Total Indoor/Outdoor water use (historical, current, and 40-
year goal) 
 5/10/40-year conservation goals (expressed as annual total water 
use) 
 Conservation Programs, Practices, and Measures (program 
selection criteria included: helping to reduce water use/waste, 
enhancing water stewardship ethos, having community/political 
support, being equitable & fair, and providing a cost-benefit 
to the City/water customers 
 Current Program Focus (outreach, economics, utility, policy & 
law, research & metrics) 
 Public Outreach & Communication Plan (engage stakeholders/ 
subject experts/community, utilize a variety of communications 
venues, build community support for adoption of conservation 
plan, etc.) 
 
 Laura Briefer provided information and spoke on the 
following: quantity of water in reservoirs with Deer Creek 
providing several years of insurance during drought years with 
capacity of 100,000 acre-feet, shallow ground water (more 
prominent on the westside of the City) and the challenges faced 
with re-using for landscaping/drinking water was water quality 
issues (high in chlorides/other compounds) and water 
rights/appropriation (ground water basin was currently over-
appropriated), current discussions regarding beneficial uses of 
ground/surface water benefitting the Great Salt Lake with concerns 
the lake was shrinking City partners, other municipalities, and 
other State agencies were participating in a number of stakeholder 
groups related to maintaining/improving flows to the Great Salt 
Lake to avoid fates like the Aral Sea (a lake in the Central Asian 
continent that was drained for irrigation). 
 
#5. 5:24:13 PM Ordinance: Budget Amendment No. 4 for Fiscal 
Year 2020-2021. The Council will be briefed about an ordinance 
that would amend the final budget of Salt Lake City, including the 
employment staffing document, for Fiscal Year 2020-21. Budget

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2020 
 
 
20 - 6
 
amendments happen several times each year to reflect adjustments 
posed project additions and 
modifications. The proposal includes: 
 $1.5 million as part of a proposed expansion to the 
Accelerator program ($500 prepaid debit cards in direct 
aid to residents ineligible for CARES Act stimulus checks); 
 a new apprentice program pairing high school students and 
young adults with City employees; 
 additional funding for the enhanced YouthCity program; 
 homeless camp clean-up funding;
 downtown ambassadors program expansion into the Rio Grande 
neighborhood and North Temple area; 
 and other items. View Attachment 
 
Benjamin Luedtke, Mary Beth Thompson, Laura Briefer, and 
Jennifer Bruno briefed the Council with attachments. 
 
Benjamin Luedtke provided a brief overview of the budget 
amendment and indicated this was the first briefing with a public 
hearing this evening and another scheduled for November 17, 2020 
with potential Council action. 
 
Mary Beth Thompson reviewed sales tax revenue/distribution 
charts: 
 Having received only two months of sales tax (for July and 
August received in September and October) 
 Distribution was currently at 77% - last year at this time was 
74% 
 Projections were based at budget and year-to-date estimated 
budget over actual currently at a positive $714,496 
 Top five sectors (>79%) of sales tax revenue (pre-distribution 
totals), including: retail trade, wholesale trade, 
accommodation and food services, manufacturing, and real 
estate/rental/leasing. 
 
Mr. Luedtke reviewed the following items: 
 CARES Act funding eligible items (move funding from General Fund 
to Grant Fund Items E1-E4) including: 
 Employee Telework Equipment - $204,000 
 Employee Internet Allowance - $187,000 
 Accelerator Program - $25,000
 Digital Equity and Internet Allowance - $75,000 
 A-5 Apprentice Program - $491,000 (General Fund one-time 
funding) for students/young adults to be paired with City

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2020 
 
 
20 - 7
 
employees for the Public Services, IMS, Public Utilities, and 
Community & Neighborhoods departments. 
 E-5 Employee Personnel Costs - $300,000 (CARES Act/2nd Round) 
for additional employee costs including overtime, call back, 
and other payroll costs related to the pandemic. 
 E-6 Employee Sick Leave & Family and Medical Leave Act - $300,000 
(CARES Act/2nd Round) covering costs to the General Fund for 
sick/FMLA leave caused by the pandemic (first three months of 
Fiscal Year 2021). 
 E-7 PPE & Cleaning Supplies - $52,730 (CARES Act/2
nd Round) to 
equip City employees with needed supplies. 
 E-8 Street Closures - $30,000 (CARES Act/2nd Round) for the Stay 
Safe, Stay Active initiative and for the closure of Main Street. 
 E-9 Healthcare Innovation Branding - $50,000 (CARES Act/2 
nd Round 
 one-time funding) with a one-year effort to raise $300,000 
for logo development, website creation, and marketing of the 
brand. 
 E-10 Enhanced YouthCity Additional Funding - $400,000 (CARES 
Act/2nd Round) for hiring three more full-time employees (FTEs), 
overtime for existing staff, additional technology for remote 
learning, and two new (or possibly used) 15-passenger vans. 
 E-11 Additional One-time Lumpsum Hazard Pay Bonus - $200,000 
(CARES Act/2nd Round) providing one-time hazard bonus pay for 
employees who did not receive the initial hazard pay bonus or 
the internet allowance. 
 E-12 RDA Grants - $200,000 (CARES Act/2nd Round) for grants to 
tenants leasing RDA owned properties mostly located in the 
Central Business District (small business, non-profit, retail, 
bar, restaurants, and parking structures). 
 E-13 Gallivan and Eccles Operation Expenses - $500,000 (CARES 
Act/2nd Round) for ongoing obligations for programming at the 
Gallivan and operations/maintenance for Eccles (in addition to 
debt service payments). 
 E-14 University Neighborhood Partners (UNP) - $20,000 (CARES 
Act/2nd Round) for supporting westside residents with 
educational programs and opportunities and create an outdoor 
classroom space for programming. 
 E-15 Nourish to Flourish - $100,000 (CARES Act/2
nd Round) a 
donation to the initiative, paying restaurants to prepare meals 
that were donated to non-profit service providers (funding 
13,333 meals).

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2020 
 
 
20 - 8
 
 E-16 Additional Accelerator Program Funding - $1,438,429 (CARES 
Act/2nd Round) assisting residents who did not receive federal 
stimulus support (RaiseUp SLC - $500 pre-paid debit cards). 
 E-17 Additional Water Assistance - $25,000 (CARES Act/2nd Round) 
assisting residents with their water bills. 
 E-18 Telework Equipment and Enhancements - $353,488 (CARES 
Act/2nd Round) to purchase phones for employees to use away from 
the office, internet/network hardware for employees, upgrades 
to servers, etc. 
 E-19 Downtown Ambassador Program Extension/North Temple Pilot 
Program - $606,000 (CARES Act/2nd Round one-time funding) for 
expanding into the Rio Grande neighborhood and North Temple 
pilot program. 
 E-20 Enhanced Homeless Camp Cleanup - $760,110 (CARES Act/2nd 
Round) for enhanced cleanup and portable restrooms/restroom 
attendants. 
 E-21 Hogle Zoo Water and Utility Forgiveness - $200,000 (CARES 
Act/2nd Round) for assistance regarding all utilities. 
 E-22 Operation Warm - $25,000 (CARES Act/2nd Round) to purchase 
1,200 coats for distribution by the County and school district 
for City residents. 
 E-23 PLACEHOLDER Request for $15.1 M (CARES Act/3rd Round) for 
qualifying expenses in the Fire Department and 911 Bureau for 
personnel expenses (currently no response from the County for 
how much/if any funding the City would receive, and time 
sensitive due to end of year CARES Act deadline). 
 
 Councilmember Fowler requested more information on the 
following items: cost breakdown for street closures and program 
details, increased services provided regarding the YouthCity 
funding (how many students, programs, etc.), future discussion 
regarding fraud prevention measures for the Accelerator Program, 
metrics of the Ambassador Program expansion, and the policy 
questions (restroom location selection/Portland Loo availability) 
for Enhanced Homeless Camp cleanup. 
 
 Straw Poll: Support for approving $70,000 for YouthCity vans. 
Council Members Wharton, Johnston, Dugan, Mano, Fowler, and Rogers 
were in favor with Councilmember Valdemoros absent for the vote. 
 
 Straw Poll: Support for Telework Equipment and Enhancements 
(IMS) for items to be placed on order. Council Members Wharton,

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2020 
 
 
20 - 9
 
Johnston, Dugan, Mano, Fowler, and Rogers were in favor with 
Councilmember Valdemoros absent for the vote. 
 
 Straw Poll: Support for a funding contingency Council to 
authorize the Administration to use all of 3 rd Round CARES Act 
funding for payroll expenses in the Fire Department & 911 Bureau 
 moving expenses out of the General Fund into the Grant Fund 
leaving a corresponding amount of funds in the General Fund that 
was not being used, with the Administration returning with a future 
budget amendment for a recommendation on how to use those General 
Fund dollars that were freed up. Council Members Wharton, Johnston, 
Dugan, Mano, Fowler, and Rogers were in favor with Councilmember 
Valdemoros absent for the vote. 
 
#6. 6:10:29 PM Board Appointment: Police Civilian Review Board 
 Perry Bankhead. The Council will interview Perry Bankhead prior 
to considering his appointment to the Police Civilian Review Board 
for a term ending September 4, 2023.View Attachment 
 
Interview was held. Councilmember Wharton said Perry 
 
 
#7. 6:15:58 PM Board Appointment: Police Civilian Review Board 
 Tonya Allred. The Council will interview Tonya Allred prior to 
considering her appointment to the Police Civilian Review Board 
for a term ending September 4, 2023.View Attachment 
 
Interview was held. Councilmember Wharton said Tonya Allre
name was on the Consent Agenda for formal consideration . 
 
#8. 6:18:00 PM Board Appointment: Police Civilian Review Board 
 Marie Bambo. The Council will interview Marie Bambo prior to 
considering her appointment to the Police Civilian Review Board 
for a term ending September 4, 2023.View Attachment 
 
Interview was held. Councilmember Wharton said Marie 
name was on the Consent Agenda for formal consideration . 
 
STANDING ITEMS 
 
#9. REPORT OF THE CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR. 
 
Item not held.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING 
 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2020 
 
 
20 - 10
 
#10. 6:21:19 PM REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, INCLUDING A 
REVIEW OF COUNCIL INFORMATION ITEMS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS. Report of 
the Executive Director, including a review of Council information 
items and announcements. The Council may give feedback or staff 
direction on any item related to City Council business, including 
but not limited to: 
 Fairpark Public Market and; 
 Scheduling Items. 
 
See File M 20-5 for announcements.
 
#11. CONSIDER A MOTION TO ENTER INTO CLOSED SESSION, IN 
KEEPING WITH UTAH CODE §52-4-205 FOR ANY ALLOWED PURPOSE. 
 
 Item not held. 
 
 The Work Session meeting adjourned at 6:23 p.m. 
 
 Minutes Approved: August 17, 2021.
 
 
_______________________________
COUNCIL CHAIR 
 
 
_______________________________
CITY RECORDER 
 
This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript 
as other items may have been discussed; please refer to the audio 
or video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203(2)(b). 
 
 This document along with the digital recording constitute the 
official minutes of the City Council Work Session meeting held 
November 10, 2020. 
 
Sc/dr
