 Committee of the
  Whole Meeting
September 12, 2023
                                 Murray City Municipal Council
                                Committee of the Whole Meeting
                                            Notice
                                     September 12, 2023

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Murray City Municipal Council will hold a Committee of the
Whole meeting beginning at 4:45 p.m. on Tuesday, September 12, 2023 in the Poplar Meeting Room #151
located at Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800 South, Murray, UT.

Meeting Agenda

4:45 p.m.          Committee of the Whole – Poplar Meeting Room #151
                   Garry Hrechkosy conducting.

Approval of Minutes
   Special Joint Meeting – August 21, 2023
   Committee of the Whole – August 22, 2023

Discussion Items
    1. Parks and Recreation Department Report. Kim Sorensen presenting. (30 minutes)
    2. Discussion on a resolution approving and authorizing the execution of an Interlocal Cooperation
        Agreement with various cities relating to the conduct of the community Development Block
        Grant Program, Emergency Solution Grant Program, and the Home Investment Partnership
        Program. G.L. Critchfield. (10 minutes)
    3. Discussion on an ordinance amending the City’s Fiscal Year 2023-2024 Budget. Brenda Moore
        presenting (15 minutes)
    4. Discussion on an ordinance amending Section 17.72.070 of the Murray City Municipal Code
        relating to parking requirements for Beauty and Barber Shops and Business and Professional
        Offices. Phil Markham and Zach Smallwood presenting. (15 minutes)
    5. UAMPS Conference Reports. City Council presenting. (10 minutes)

Adjournment
NOTICE

Supporting materials are available for inspection on the Murray City website at www.murray.utah.gov.

Special accommodations for the hearing or visually impaired will be made upon a request to the office of the Murray City Recorder
(801-264-2663). We would appreciate notification two working days prior to the meeting. TTY is Relay Utah at #711.

Council Members may participate in the meeting via telephonic communication. If a Council Member does participate via
telephonic communication, the Council Member will be on speaker phone. The speaker phone will be amplified so that the other
Council Members and all other persons present in the Poplar Meeting Room will be able to hear all discussions.

On Friday, September 1, 2023, at 9:00 a.m., a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of
the Murray City Hall, Murray, Utah. Copies of this notice were provided for the news media in the Office of the City Recorder. A
copy of this notice was posted on Murray City’s internet website www.murray.utah.gov. and the state noticing website at
http://pmn.utah.gov .




                                                                     Jennifer Kennedy
                                                                     Council Executive Director
                                                                     Murray City Municipal Council
                                 Murray City Municipal Council
                                Committee of the Whole Meeting
                                            Notice
                                     September 12, 2023

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Murray City Municipal Council will hold a Committee of the
Whole meeting beginning at 4:45 p.m. on Tuesday, September 12, 2023 in the Poplar Meeting Room #151
located at Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800 South, Murray, UT.

Meeting Agenda

4:45 p.m.          Committee of the Whole – Poplar Meeting Room #151
                   Garry Hrechkosy conducting.

Approval of Minutes
   Special Joint Meeting – August 21, 2023
   Committee of the Whole – August 22, 2023

Discussion Items
    1. Parks and Recreation Department Report. Kim Sorensen presenting. (30 minutes)
    2. Discussion on a resolution approving and authorizing the execution of an Interlocal Cooperation
        Agreement with various cities relating to the conduct of the community Development Block
        Grant Program, Emergency Solution Grant Program, and the Home Investment Partnership
        Program. G.L. Critchfield. (10 minutes)
    3. Discussion on an ordinance amending the City’s Fiscal Year 2023-2024 Budget. Brenda Moore
        presenting (15 minutes)
    4. Discussion on an ordinance amending Section 17.72.070 of the Murray City Municipal Code
        relating to parking requirements for Beauty and Barber Shops and Business and Professional
        Offices. Phil Markham and Zach Smallwood presenting. (15 minutes)
    5. UAMPS Conference Reports. City Council presenting. (10 minutes)

Adjournment
NOTICE

Supporting materials are available for inspection on the Murray City website at www.murray.utah.gov.

Special accommodations for the hearing or visually impaired will be made upon a request to the office of the Murray City Recorder
(801-264-2663). We would appreciate notification two working days prior to the meeting. TTY is Relay Utah at #711.

Council Members may participate in the meeting via telephonic communication. If a Council Member does participate via
telephonic communication, the Council Member will be on speaker phone. The speaker phone will be amplified so that the other
Council Members and all other persons present in the Poplar Meeting Room will be able to hear all discussions.

On Friday, September 1, 2023, at 9:00 a.m., a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of
the Murray City Hall, Murray, Utah. Copies of this notice were provided for the news media in the Office of the City Recorder. A
copy of this notice was posted on Murray City’s internet website www.murray.utah.gov. and the state noticing website at
http://pmn.utah.gov .




                                                                     Jennifer Kennedy
                                                                     Council Executive Director
                                                                     Murray City Municipal Council
 Committee
of the Whole
   Minutes
                              MURRAY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                    Special Meeting – Joint Meeting with Millcreek City
                                        Meeting Minutes
                                     Monday August 21, 2023
          Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800 South, Council Chambers, Murray, Utah 84107

Attendance:
Council Members and others:
    Garry Hrechkosy – Chair             District #5
    Rosalba Dominguez – Vice Chair      District #3
    David Rodgers                       District #1
    Pam Cotter                          District #2
    Diane Turner                        District #4

Brett Hales            Murray City Mayor                Jennifer Kennedy   City Council Executive Director
Doug Hill              Chief Administrative Officer     Pattie Johnson     Council Administration
Tammy Kikuchi          Chief Communications Officer     Phil Markham       CED Director
G.L. Critchfield       City Attorney                    Elvon Farrell      CED
Jacob Richards         Millcreek City Council           Robert May         Millcreek City planner
Brenda Moore           Finance Director                 Kristy Chambers    Millcreek Community Council
Christine Richman      GSBS                             Tim Sullivan       GSBS Township and Range
Jason Claunch          Catalyst                         Mike Winder        Millcreek City Manager
Bev Uipi               Millcreek City Council           Shawn Lamar        Millcreek City Planning Commission
Jeff Silvestrini       Millcreek City Mayor             Cheri Jackson      Millcreek City Council
Silvia Catten          Millcreek City Council           Tim Sullivan       Township and Range
Jason Claunch          Catalyst                         Thom DeSirant      Millcreek City Council
Zach Smallwood         Murray City planner              Residents

Welcome and Introductions:
 Mr. Hrechkosy began the meeting at 5:00 p.m. and noted Millcreek City Mayor Jeff Silvestrini and the
 Millcreek City Council were present for the joint meeting. He explained that GSBS Architects would
 present the Murray North Station Area Plan that intends to revitalize the TRAX station area. Collaboration
 between Murray and Millcreek was important because the station includes land in both cities.

Discussion Item:
• Preliminary Concepts/Directions and Implementation Steps for the Murray North Station Area Plan.
      GSBS representative Christine Richman introduced her team and explained how GSBS hopes to bring
      change to a very challenging area and progressively make the Murray North Station fully functional
      over time. She said the project started several months ago and that so far they have completed an
      Existing Conditions Analysis and the first phase of public input. GSBS spent time discussing the
      proposal with Murray’s planning staff and a number of other stakeholders. The purpose of the
      meeting was to review the work that GSBS completed, discuss the proposed plan to eventually
      implement strategies and enter the next phase of work. Recently a SWOT (strengths, weaknesses,
      opportunities, and threats) analysis was conducted that involves alternatives and focuses on various
      aspects of the station area.

      Ms. Richman displayed a map to point out the station platform in relationship to the Murray/Millcreek
      City boundary. She noted Fireclay Avenue as the main access to the UTA (Utah Transit Authority) Park
      and Ride lot and Main Street as a vital street. Barriers that run through the area include 4500 South,
Murray City Municipal Council
Special Joint Meeting with Millcreek City
August 21, 2023                                     DRAFT                                              Page 2




       State Street, 300 West, Interstate 15, and the Front Runner rail tracks.

       She said according to new State requirements for all TRAX stations, plans for revitalizing station areas
       need to be centered around a TOD (Transit-oriented Development) zone and transit hub, and
       encompass a one-half mile distance from the station platform. The purpose of the plan is to determine
       a shared vision that is formed by existing uses and how the community perceives its future; the results
       of the plan identify opportunities and constraints within the station area; identifies opportunities for
       affordable housing and recognizes a described vision for the future of the area. Areas not considered
       feasible for connectivity to the station area were noted. Lastly the plan suggests strategic
       recommendations for implementation.

       She shared the plan schedule to explain what they know right now, like existing conditions, economics,
       community engagement, and the SWOT results. What is needed is more housing, services and
       amenities, connectivity, and safety and security; and she spoke about what steps are needed next to
       implement the plan. That involves completing a future land use map for the area, identifying design
       of streets and buildings, and finding funding for the projects. GSBS hopes to present a final draft of
       the plan to both cities for their consideration in late fall.

       Ms. Richman said to help GSBS understand current conditions in the area, an on-line survey was
       created involving a series of interactive maps related to land use, transportation, crime, safety,
       environmental issues, housing, economic opportunities, and community assets. As a result they
       learned that new households in this area have no amenities or services nearby so services like
       gathering places, grocery stores, parking, and other amenities will be needed. Ms. Dominguez asked
       if a community center could be slated in the plan. Ms. Richman said it would be considered a gathering
       place which would help social cohesion and reduce crime that is a problem in this neighborhood.

       Website information was shared that informs people about the planning process and the online
       survey for collecting data. GSBS will continue to gather ideas, learn community priorities, and identify
       problems in the area. Ms. Richman said one community outreach event occurred, and the next one is
       set for September 12, 2023 at Brickhill Park from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. She discussed the stakeholder
       interview process; described all land uses in the radius, reviewed historical, existing, and future
       housing plans for the area and confirmed that environmental issues exist on many properties in the
       area.

       A heat map was displayed to confirm prominent crime in the station area and Ms. Richman said not
       only property crimes, trespassing and ordinance violations occur, but most concerning is violent
       crimes like rape, assault, and murder. A conversation followed about the full range of frequent crime
       and there was consensus that violent crime was concerning. Ms. Richman felt crime overall could be
       mitigated by improving urban design, creating social cohesion, and addressing existing commercial
       vacancy spaces.

       Tim Sullivan said connectivity was important to the TOD and reviewed connection barriers that were
       discovered in the area. He said with sidewalk gaps, lack of crossing areas and the Front Runner track
       line, improvements to walking, biking, and pedestrian access could be made by creating smaller city
Murray City Municipal Council
Special Joint Meeting with Millcreek City
August 21, 2023                                     DRAFT                                               Page 3




       blocks and more direct routs despite car traffic. Typically parking areas are not needed in a TOD with
       available transit opportunities, but people in Utah still prominently drive cars. What resulted from a
       parking count they conducted was the conclusion that a smarter parking plan is needed. He reported
       building managers in Fireclay are struggling because renters are leaving due to lack of parking and car
       towings from illegal parking in fire lanes. He felt parking issues were unique to that area because
       newer developments have done better by making parking stalls optional with rental agreements.

       Mayor Silvestrini said one way Millcreek addressed on-street parking issues, was by requiring
       developers to assign a parking stall with each rental unit. Ms. Dominguez thought the concept for
       living in Fireclay was to encourage the use of public transit. Mr. Sullivan agreed but parking issues are
       often related to low-income and affordability. He said a shared parking program could be
       implemented that was never tried, but a better strategy is needed because more parking is definitely
       needed in the Fireclay area. It was noted that walking from the UTA parking lot was not an option,
       because it is dangerous at night.

       Ms. Richman explained a strategy called Internal Capture. This would change the environment, so that
       people who drive to get a loaf of bread would instead walk around the corner for groceries. Ms.
       Dominguez addressed the low-income community that exists in Fireclay and asked how large multi-
       families living in one- and two-bedroom units, with varying needs would transition to that kind of
       environment. Ms. Richman agreed there is a high concentration of affordable housing in the area and
       the only way to bring businesses to the area, is to ensure there is buying power to support the needed
       retail, which requires diversifying socioeconomics.

       Jason Claunch discussed the demand for market needs and lack of services in the area. He thought
       national brands would require a certain amount of parking for convenience before they would even
       consider moving to the area. From a planning perspective he said there is at least 170,000 square feet
       of additional capacity to harness in the study area, and another 5,000 square feet of retail that could
       be absorbed within the core of the radius.

       He outlined opportunities and considerations that would meet marketing needs and boost stability in
       the future. Ms. Dominguez stressed that both cities need mixed incomes to sustain markets in the
       area and asked how that would be improved. Mr. Claunch said finding a good balance in the equitable
       distribution of housing would help throughout the entire area for all income ranges.

       Ms. Richman pointed out the lack of greenspace and crosswalks that need to be added, especially at
       State Street because the nearest crosswalk is at 4500 South.

       She presented three final concepts for improving the Murray North Station Area. Option Plans A, B
       and C were all discussed thoroughly. She provided conceptual drawings, maps and illustrations for
       each option and explained that one option was not better than the other and all three ideas could be
       accomplished over time. Option A reflected a smaller area of development around the station with
       little commercial; Option B focuses on Main Street to 4500 South with a greater pedestrian
       environment, a larger extension of housing developments including retail, green space, and active
       uses. Option C was the largest vision and very busy expanding the TOD regional hub further north and
Murray City Municipal Council
Special Joint Meeting with Millcreek City
August 21, 2023                                    DRAFT                                              Page 4




       west, with clear key gateway streets, an active retail market, recreation, increased busing and more
       open space with Fireclay Avenue as main station area. She said Option C would be a major investment
       to push Fireclay Avenue to the west beyond the Front Runner track line.

       Ms. Cotter felt grocery stores in the area would attract more people to live there. Ms. Richman
       confirmed commercial space was included in Option B. The GSBS team agreed creating the context in
       the area first would help move more commercial business into the area. Ms. Cotter asked about an
       empty lot owned by Salt Lake County. Ms. Richman discussed the proposal with the County who
       indicated they would consider any proposed changes affecting their lot. Ms. Cotter asked about
       attaining the Deseret Industries property from the LDS church as depicted in the proposal. Ms.
       Richman explained conceptual plans were only identifying a vision for communities after properties
       transition in the future. She said nothing in the plan would force anyone to transition their property
       before they are ready. The current proposal only indicates the preferred use until the transition
       actually occurs.

       Further discussion occurred about each option regarding future housing, pedestrian connectivity,
       vibrant communities, green space, walking paths, and streetscapes. Enhancing Main Street is the goal
       to make the area more vibrant no matter which plan is decided on. Ms. Richman clarified Option C is
       a larger TOD that would become a sub-regional hub. Ms. Dominguez asked what a sub-regional hub
       looks like within a city. Mr. Sullivan said Sugarhouse is a good example. Ms. Richman explained a sub-
       regional hub would be located between the TRAX line and the Front Runner tracks similar to the
       Granary District in Salt Lake City. That includes employment, entertainment recreation and housing.
       Mr. Sullivan agreed Fireclay would become active like Sugarhouse which is what GSBS is exploring.

       Mayor Silvestrini said Millcreek’s planning efforts have been to revitalize Main Street as a bikeway,
       instead of using State Street. Main Street has the potential to connect communities from South Salt
       Lake to Murray which would be of value. He agreed greenspace and open space are needed as an
       antidote because the area would become a very densely built-up community of two million people.

       Ms. Richman said given the regional projections for population, having more centers that can
       accommodate growth would be a critical consideration to livability valley wide. Mayor Silvestrini
       noted every TRAX station along the spine of Salt Lake County has impediments and barriers due to
       Union Pacific railroad, Front Runner, TRAX, and Interstate 15. Ms. Richman agreed it is a challenge at
       every TOD station area south of Salt Lake City but in 20 years they hope the plan would be completed
       at all station areas. A lengthy discussion occurred about under passes and over passes and the Union
       Pacific, as well as the challenge of crossing 4500 South to the south.

       Ms. Turner asked if the plan was realistic and felt there was not enough greenspace. Ms. Richman said
       the planning horizon is 20 years from now. Ms. Turner asked how this plan fits with Murray City’s
       current GP (General Plan). Mr. Smallwood said the Murray GP calls for revitalizing TRAX station areas,
       so it goes hand in hand with Murray’s plan. The GSBS plan must be considered with Council feedback,
       so it will be adopted and be the only vision going forward, so now is the Council’s opportunity to form
       how Murray will develop this area going forward. Mr. Claunch said each city block would have
       greenspace not reflected on the displayed maps.
Murray City Municipal Council
Special Joint Meeting with Millcreek City
August 21, 2023                                     DRAFT                                              Page 5




       Ms. Richman discussed the implementation of each plan in terms of land use, design approach and
       various funding mechanisms. She said in the final plan there would be a matrix of funding
       opportunities and clearly the ones that would be the most straight forward include the existing tax
       increment producing areas and existing impact fees. There are also new grants that are part of the
       transportation and connectivity initiatives coming out of Washington D.C. that would offer funding.
       State and private funding is also there improving park and trail service levels and increasing household
       densities. She noted that the HTRZ (Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone) mechanism would pay
       for TOD projects through tax increments. She thought if an HTRZ was logical for funding the plan, a
       joint HTRZ between Murray and Millcreek might be possible which has never been done before.

       Ms. Richman concluded the GSBS team is focused on how to continue making the Murray North
       Station area an exciting place and ensure it is a fully livable TOD community.

Adjournment: Mr. Hrechkosy adjourned the meeting at 8:00 p.m.


                                                                 Pattie Johnson
                                                                 Council Office Administrator III
                                         MURRAY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                          COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
                                                   Meeting Minutes
                                               Tuesday, August 22 2023
                   Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800 South, Poplar Meeting Room, Murray, Utah 84107
   Attendance:
     Council Members and others:
     Garry Hrechkosy – Chair            District #5
     Rosalba Dominguez – Vice Chair     District #3
     David Rodgers                      District #1
     Pam Cotter                         District #2
     Diane Turner                       District #4

Brett Hales        Mayor                                     Jennifer Kennedy     City Council Executive Director
Doug Hill          CAO (Chief Administrative Officer)        Pattie Johnson       Council Administration
Tammy Kikuchi      Chief Communications Officer              Laura Brown          Deputy Recorder
G.L. Critchfield   City Attorney                             Craig Burnett        Police Chief
Jim Peters         AOC (Administrative Office of the Courts) Karen Gallegos       Murray Courts
Brenda Moore       Finance Director                          Zach Smallwood       City planner
Loran Pasalich     Murray Chamber of Commerce                Joey Mittelman       Fire Chief
Rob White          IT Director                               Phil Markham         CED Director
Kim Sorensen       Parks and Recreation Director             Craig Burnett        Police Chief
Elvon Farrell      CED                                       Citizens
Ben Gray           IT

   Conducting: Council Member Hrechkosy called the meeting to order at 5:00 p.m.

   Approval of Minutes: Committee of the Whole, July 18, 2023 and Committee of the Whole, August 1,
   2023. Council Member Cotter moved to approve, and Council Member Dominguez seconded the motion.
   All in favor 5-0.

   Discussion Items
   • Murray City Municipal Justice Court Update.
         CAO Doug Hill explained that Murray’s presiding Judge Paul Thompson would be retiring in May of
         2023, so a decision in moving forward was needed. Mayor Hales would make the decision but
         ultimately the City Council would consider the final choice legislatively. Mr. Hill introduced Justice
         Court Administrator Jim Peters as the State level contact person from the AOC, who oversees the
         Murray Justice Court and had met previously with the administration about the matter.

         Mr. Peters discussed various options for what the City could do and would need direction for how
         to proceed. He said unlike other city hires, the AOC is heavily involved in the Justice Court and by
         statute he would be part of the recruiting process should the City decide to keep the Murray Courts
         and replace Judge Thompson.

         He provided an overview of options that included keeping the courts and replacing the judge;
         dissolving the Justice Court completely and sending cases to the County Justice Court by default; or
         have a neighboring jurisdiction take Murray cases by implementing an Interlocal Agreement. He
         gave several examples of cities that handle other cities justice court cases and noted that recently
         Salt Lake County decided to dissolve its justice court, which would be decided legislatively in the
         long run. As a result, having Salt Lake County take Murray’s court cases would be somewhat
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of August 22, 2023                         DRAFT                                             Page 2



       complicated at this time.

       He felt the Interlocal Agreement option was better than dissolving the justice court altogether,
       because once dismantled it would be hard to get the court back up and operating. With an Interlocal
       Agreement, the City could reinstate the court easily by terminating the Interlocal Agreement, and
       it would be as though the court was only dormant and not dissolved. There was further discussion
       about why cities choose to close justice courts, if courts should be making revenue, and the process
       for keeping the courts open and replacing judges.

       Mr. Peters discussed a time line and the process for selecting a new judge which included
       advertising for the vacancy, forming a nominating commission who would handle the interviews
       and public process; and narrowing the pool of candidates down to 3-5 people. From there Mayor
       Hales would review applicants and choose one person within 30 days. The final candidate would be
       presented to the City Council who would have final consideration within another 30 days. A
       certification, orientation, testing process and oath of office ceremony for the new judge would be
       the last steps in the process.

       Mr. Peters confirmed that by the time a nominated person reaches council consideration, that
       individual would have been thoroughly vetted. He stressed the person selected would remain as
       Murray’s Justice Court judge for decades to come. A conversation followed about who can apply for
       a judge position, various qualifications, and experience, and the number of hours many judges work
       per month. It was noted that Judge Thompson had a full-time case load for years.

       Mayor Hales shared that he would like to keep the Murray Courts open to provide the service to
       citizens and replace Judge Thompson. He would include the Council in the process and keep them
       updated as procedures occur.

       There was a review of how the nominating commission is comprised, how often they meet, and
       when they come together for the vetting and interview process. In conclusion there was consensus
       to align with Mayor Hales’ decision to keep the Murray Courts open and replace Judge Thompson.
       Mr. Peters would prepare as instructed and communicate with Mr. Hill accordingly in the months
       to come.

•   An ordinance amending Sections 3.14.060 and 3.14.070 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to
    impact fee adjustments.
      City Attorney G.L. Critchfield explained current City Code related to impact fee adjustments or
      requests for credit were currently submitted and reviewed legislatively by the City Council. Since
      that time when the Code was originally drafted, State Law now provides for an administrative
      review rather than a legislative review. As a result the City’s current ordinance should be amended
      to comply.

       Following previous meetings with the administration, Mr. Critchfield said their recommendation is
       to now authorize Murray City Finance Director Brenda Moore and the administration to review and
       approve impact fee adjustments or credit requests. This removes the Murray City Council from that
       process. He explained the purpose of the ordinance was to allow a developer who disagrees with
       an impact fee imposed on their development to appeal the impact fee amount.
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of August 22, 2023                        DRAFT                                             Page 3



       There was conversation about why Ms. Moore would oversee the request to adjust impact fees and
       not the CED (Community and Economic Development) director. Mr. Critchfield said the finance
       director was the better choice because financial duties are aside and apart from the development
       process, and this would remove the CED director from a difficult spot who is engaged with many
       developers at one time.

       There was a question about when an impact fee could be waived. A lengthy discussion followed as
       Mr. Critchfield said impact fees are not ever waived. An impact fee can be reduced, adjusted, or
       somewhat credited if certain criteria is met. He explained that the impact fee is a one-time charge
       to mitigate the impact of a development, which is the ongoing way that the City pays for increased
       capacity. If a developer constructs something they believe is an improvement to the City’s system,
       the developer might expect the City to pay them back dollar for dollar, but this is not what the
       ordinance considers. It only allows the fee to be reduced but not eliminated.

       Mr. Hrechkosy requested that the Council be informed when an impact fee is waived or adjusted.
       Ms. Kennedy pointed out the proposed amendment was only related to Ms. Moore adjusting fees
       and not waiving fees by any means. Mr. Critchfield reiterated impact fees are not waived. A
       discussion followed related to Mayor Hales evaluating the impact fee adjustment request should
       Ms. Moore ever have a conflict of interest.

Adjournment: 5:41 p.m.
                                                               Pattie Johnson
                                                               Council Office Administrator III
Discussion
   Items
Discussion
 Item #1
Discussion
 Item #2
                                    Mayor's Office

                                    Amend Interlocal Agreement for
                                    CDBG Program

                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                                   September 12, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Amend the Agreement with the Urban County entities for
Mayor Brett Hales        Community Development Block Grant Program
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Consider approval of Resolution
801-264-2600
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Resolution, Entitlement Notification Letter, Interlocal Agreement
GL Critchfield

                    Budget Impact
                         None


                    Description of this tem
Required Time for        The Urban County Interlocal Agreement, previously approved by
Presentation             the City Council, and all required associated documents were
                         submitted to HUD. Subsequently, HUD issued notification letter
                         to potential entitlement cities (including Murray) that previously
Is This Time             participated in the Urban County, advising them that they have
                         met the sufficient population to meet the definition of a
Sensitive                Metropolitan City under the Community Development Block
Yes                      Grant (CDBG) program. As a result these cities are entitled to
                         receive its own annual formula allocation of CDBG funds in
Mayor’s Approval         Federal Fiscal Year 2024 and subsequent years.

                         (continued on the next page)
Date
August 30, 2023
As a city meets the eligibility threshold, it has the options of:

         1) accepting status as an entitlement grantee;
         2) accepting and entering a joint agreement with the Urban County;
         3) deferring status and participating through the State CDBG program; or
         4) deferring status and continuing to participate as part of the Urban County.

The mayor and staff are recommending that Murray opt to defer status and continue participation as part
of the Urban County. Two cities (Millcreek and Draper) have opted to defer status and continue to
participate as part of the Urban County. One city (Herriman) has opted to accept its entitlement status and
enter into a joint agreement with the County to administer its funds.

One nuance of Herriman's acceptance of entitlement status is that we are required to amend the
agreement to reflect that Herriman will no longer be considered a participant in the Salt Lake Urban County.
As a result, the original agreement needs to be amended.

There are three changes in the agreement:

    1)     Herriman has been removed from the list of participating governmental entities,
    2)     Per the guidance of HUD general counsel, Section 6 of the Agreement has been revised to
       match the exact language of the original HUD notice,
    3)     Per the guidance of HUD general counsel, Section 17(t) has been revised to clarify the
       agreement will automatically renew in the future, so that it streamlines future renewal qualification
       periods.
                               RESOLUTION NO. R23-__

      A RESOLUTION APPROVING AND AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF AN
      INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT WITH SALT LAKE COUNTY,
      TOWN OF ALTA, TOWN OF BRIGHTON, BLUFFDALE CITY, COPPERTON
      METRO TOWNSHIP, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY, DRAPER CITY,
      EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, HOLLADAY CITY, KEARNS
      METRO TOWNSHIP, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP, MIDVALE CITY CORP.,
      MURRAY CITY, CITY OF MILLCREEK, RIVERTON CITY, CITY OF SOUTH
      SALT LAKE, AND WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP RELATING TO THE
      CONDUCT OF THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT
      PROGRAM, EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM AND THE HOME
      INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM.

      WHEREAS, on June 27, 2023, the City Council approved Resolution 23-38
approving an interlocal cooperation agreement relating to the conduct of the Community
Development Block Grant Urban County Program for Federal Fiscal Years 2024
through 2026; and

        WHEREAS, after Resolution 23-38 was approved, Herriman City was notified
that it had reached entitlement status and opted to accept its entitlement status and to
withdraw from the Urban County renewal process; and

      WHEREAS, this Resolution supersedes and replaces Resolution 23-38; and

        WHEREAS, Salt Lake County participates as an “urban county,” as defined by
federal regulation, in the Community Development Block Grant (“CDBG”), Emergency
Solutions Grant (“ESG”), and the HOME Investment Partnership through a consortium
that includes the urban county (“HOME”) programs administered by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”); and

       WHEREAS, an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (“Agreement”) has been
prepared for approval and execution by and between Salt Lake County and participating
municipalities, including Murray City, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 1,
which states the purposes thereof, and the extent of the required participation of the
parties and the rights, duties, responsibilities, and obligations of the parties in the
conduct and administration of the CDBG, ESG, and HOME programs as specified
therein; and

       WHEREAS, under the Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Annotated,
11-13- 101 et seq. (2020) any two or more public agencies may enter into agreements
with one another for joint or cooperative action and may also contract with each other to
perform any governmental service activity or taking which each public agency entering
into the contract is authorized by law to perform.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council as
follows:

      1.      That the attached Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between Salt Lake
County and the Town of Alta, Town of Brighton, Bluffdale City, Copperton Metro
Township, Cottonwood Heights City, Draper City, Emigration Canyon Metro Township,
Holladay City, Kearns Metro Township, Magna Metro Township, Midvale City Corp.,
Murray City, City of Millcreek, Riverton City, City of South Salt Lake, and White City
Metro Township relating to the conduct of the CDBG, ESG, and HOME Programs is
hereby approved by the Council.

      2       That Mayor Brett A. Hales is hereby authorized and directed to execute
and deliver the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement on behalf of Murray City.

          3.   That this Resolution shall take effect immediately on passage.

          PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council
on this     day of ________ 2023.


                                                MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                                ________________________________
                                                Garry Hrechkosy, Chair

ATTEST:



_____________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
          Attachment

Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development

Community Planning and Development                 Region VIII, Denver           Phone: 303-672-5414
                                                   1670 Broadway Street          Fax: 303-672-5028
                                                   Denver, Colorado 80202-4801   Web: www.hud.gov




                                              August 24, 2023

The Honorable Brett A. Hales
Mayor, City of Murray
10 East 4800 South
Murray, UT 84107

SUBJECT:         Fiscal Year 2024 Potential New Entitlement Notification

Dear Mayor Hales:

        The City of Murray has the sufficient population to meet the definition of a Metropolitan
City under the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. This means that
Murray is entitled to an annual formula allocation of CDBG funds in Federal Fiscal Year (FY)
2024 and in each subsequent year. We estimate that the City’s FY 2023 CDBG allocation would
have been approximately $218,000. A difference in the amount appropriated by Congress for FY
2024 and other changes that affect the formula distribution of funds will cause the final amount
to differ from this estimate.

Murray has four options:
  1. Accept status as an entitlement grantee;
  2. Accept status as an entitlement grantee and enter into a joint agreement with the urban
      county in which it is located;
  3. Defer status as an entitlement grantee and participate through the State CDBG program;
      or
  4. Defer status as an entitlement grantee and continue to participate as part of the urban
      county.

       The city of Murray must provide a written confirmation to the U.S. Dept. of Housing and
Urban Development’s Region VIII Office of Community Planning and Development of its intent
to accept or defer its entitlement status. Murray should also consult the 2023 Urban County
Notice regarding deadlines for notifying the Salt Lake County of its intentions. The 2023 Urban
County Notice can be accessed at:

Notice CPD-23-02: Instructions for Urban County Qualification for Participation in the CDBG Program for FYs
2024-2026 - HUD Exchange

        Should Murray elect to receive these CDBG funds, the City must follow a citizen
participation plan and prepare a Consolidated Plan (Plan) that includes a housing and homeless
needs assessment, housing market analysis, strategic plan, action plan and certifications. The
Plan must be submitted to this office between November 15, 2023, and August 16, 2024.
                                                                                               2




       Please be advised that CDBG Program rules (24 CFR § 570.200(h)) permit a new CDBG
formula grant recipient to receive reimbursement of costs necessary to develop its Consolidated
Plan and undertake other administrative actions necessary to receive its first grant. Such costs
may be reimbursed from Murray’s initial grant, provided that Congress appropriates funds for
FY2024, that the City completes an acceptable and timely Consolidated Plan, and that the costs
meet other applicable requirements.

      If you have any questions or need further assistance, please contact me at
Noemi.Ghirghi@hud.gov. We look forward to building an effective partnership with the City of
Murray.

                                            Sincerely,



                                            Noemi Ghirghi
                                            Regional Director

cc:
Doug Hill, Chief Administrative Officer
Phil Markham, Community and Economic Development Director
                                                             County Contract No. _____________
                                                              DA Log No. 23CIV000142

                      INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT

                                              between

                                    SALT LAKE COUNTY
                        for its Department of Regional Transportation,
                              Housing, and Economic Development

                                                And

   TOWN OF ALTA, TOWN OF BRIGHTON, BLUFFDALE CITY, COPPERTON
    METRO TOWNSHIP, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY, DRAPER CITY,
EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, HOLLADAY CITY, KEARNS METRO
 TOWNSHIP, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP, MIDVALE CITY CORP., MILLCREEK,
  MURRAY CITY, RIVERTON CITY, CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE, AND WHITE
                      CITY METRO TOWNSHIP

                                    Relating to the conduct of

               COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
                 HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                   EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM

                                                For

                      FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                         And successive three-year periods thereafter

       THIS INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) is entered into
effective _____ day of _________ 2023, by and between SALT LAKE COUNTY, a body
corporate and politic of the State of Utah, for its Department of Regional Transportation,
Housing, and Economic Development ("County") and the following governmental entities:
Town of Alta, Town of Brighton, Bluffdale City, Copperton Metro Township, Cottonwood
Heights, Draper City, Emigration Canyon Metro Township, , Holladay City, Kearns Metro
Township, Magna Metro Township, Midvale City Corp., Millcreek, Murray City, Riverton
City, City of South Salt Lake, and White City Metro Township, each one of which is a
municipal corporation or metro township of the State of Utah located in Salt Lake County. For
ease of definition, the above identified cities and townships may be collectively referred to as the
“Cities.” County and Cities may be referred to jointly as the “Parties” and individually as a
“Party.”




                                           Page 1 of 26
                                         RECITALS

    1. In 1974, the U.S. Congress enacted the Housing and Community Development Act of
1974, as since amended (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.); in 1990 the U.S. Congress enacted the
Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act, as since amended (42 U.S.C. 12701 et
seq.); and in 2009 the U.S. Congress amended the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act
creating the Emergency Solutions Grants Program; (collectively referred to as the “Acts”),
permitting and providing for the participation of the United States government in a wide range of
local housing and community development activities and the Acts’ programs which activities and
programs are administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
(“HUD”).

    2. The primary objective of the Acts is the development of viable urban communities and
access by every resident to decent housing, shelter and ownership opportunity regardless of
income or minority status, by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment and
expanding economic opportunities, principally for persons of low and moderate income, with
this objective to be accomplished by the federal government providing financial assistance
pursuant to the Acts in the form of community development block grants (“CDBG”), HOME
Investment Partnerships, and Emergency Solutions Grants (“ESG”) Program funds to state and
local governments to be used in the conduct and administration of housing, shelter, and
community development activities and projects as contemplated by the primary objectives of the
Acts.

    3. To implement the policies, objectives and other provisions of the Acts, HUD has issued
rules and regulations governing the conduct of the CDBG, ESG, and HOME programs,
published in 24 C.F.R., Part 92, Part 570, and Part 576 (the “Regulations), which Regulations
provide that a county may qualify as an “urban county,” as defined in Section 570.3 of the
Regulations, and thereby become eligible to receive entitlement grants from HUD for the
conduct of CDBG, HOME, and ESG program activities as an urban county and that the cities
and other units of general local governments in the same metropolitan statistical area that do not
or cannot qualify for separate entitlement grants may be included as a part of the urban county by
entering into cooperation agreements with the urban county in accordance with the requirements
of the Regulations.

    4. Since 1981, HUD has amended the Regulations, revising the qualification period for
urban counties by providing that the qualification by HUD of an urban county shall remain
effective for three successive federal fiscal years regardless of changes in its population during
that period, except for failure of an urban county to receive a grant during any year of that
period. HUD’s amendments to the Regulations also provide that no included city or other unit
of general local government covering an additional area may be added to the urban county
during that three-year qualification period except where permitted by the Regulations.

    5. In 2020, as part of the three-year qualification process, the County entered into an
interlocal cooperation agreement with the Parties to this Agreement (the “2020 Agreement”) for
purposes of authorizing the County to undertake or to assist in undertaking essential community
development, emergency solutions, and housing assistance activities within the Cities. The

                                           Page 2 of 26
County now wishes to terminate the 2020 Agreement and replace it with this Agreement.

    6. The County recognizes and understands that it does not have independent legal authority
to conduct some kinds of community development and housing assistance activities within the
boundaries of an incorporated city without the city’s approval. In order to ensure participation
by the Cities in the urban county and as part of the federal fiscal years 2024-2026 urban county
qualification process, the County and Cities are required to enter into this interlocal agreement
authorizing the County to undertake or to assist in undertaking essential community
development, emergency solutions, and housing assistance activities within the Cities as may be
specified in the “Final Statement of Community Development Objectives and Projected Use of
Funds” (the “Final Statement”) to be submitted to HUD annually by the County to receive its
annual CDBG, ESG, and HOME entitlement grants.

    7. Under general provisions of Utah law governing contracting between governmental
entities and by virtue of specific authority granted in the Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act,
Section 11-13-101 et seq. Utah Code Ann. (2020), any two or more public agencies may enter
into agreements with one another for joint or cooperative action, or for other purposes authorized
by law.

    8. Accordingly, the County and the Cities have determined that it will be mutually
beneficial and in the public interest to enter into this interlocal agreement regarding the conduct
of the County’s CDBG, ESG, and HOME program activities and projects.

                                          AGREEMENT

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and the cooperative actions
contemplated hereunder, and other good and valuable consideration the receipt and sufficiency
of which is hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:

1. A fully executed copy of this interlocal cooperation agreement (“Agreement”), together with
the approving resolutions of the Cities and the County, shall be submitted to HUD by the County
as part of its qualification documentation.

2. This Agreement covers the CDBG Entitlement program, the HOME Investment Partnership
(HOME) and Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG) Programs. The Cities hereby give the County
the authority to carry out CDBG, ESG, and HOME Program activities and projects within the
Cities’ respective boundaries. By entering into this Agreement with the County, the Cities shall
be included as a part of the urban county for CDGB, ESG, and HOME program qualification and
grant calculation purposes.

3. The period of performance of this Agreement shall cover three CDBG, ESG, and HOME
Program years beginning July 1, 2024, and ending June 30, 2027 (e.g., Federal FYs 2024 – 2026)
and this Agreement shall be automatically renew at the end of the current qualification period for
successive three-year periods thereafter, unless written notice is provided by the County or a
participating unit of general local government of its election not to participate in a new
qualification period.

                                           Page 3 of 26
Each City will participate for the next three Program Years, and for each successive Three-year
period thereafter up to a maximum term of 50 years. Subject to termination provisions set forth
in Paragraph 14 below, a City may terminate its participation in the Agreement by giving written
notice to the County in accordance with the Qualification Schedule provided in HUD’s
“Instructions for Urban County Qualification for Participation in Community Development
Block Grant (“CDBG”) Programs” for the next three-year renewal period. Without regard to
whether a Party desires to provide written notice of its intent to terminate participation in this
Agreement, it shall remain in effect; until the CDBG, ESG, and HOME funds and program
income received (with respect to the activities carried out during the three-year qualification
period, and any successive qualification periods under this Agreement) are expended and funded
activities completed. No Party may terminate or withdraw from this Agreement while it remains
in effect and until this condition is met.

4. As provided in Section 570.307 of the Regulations, the qualification of the County as an
urban county shall remain effective for the entire three-year period in effect regardless of
changes in its population during that period of time, and the parties agree that a City or Cities
may not withdraw from nor be removed from inclusion in the urban county for HUD’s grant
computation purposes during that three-year period. Prior to the beginning of each succeeding
qualification period, by the date specified in HUD’s urban county qualification notice for the
next qualification period, the County shall notify each City in writing of its right not to
participate and shall send a copy of such notice to the HUD field office by the date specified in
the urban county qualification schedule issued for that period.

5. The Cities and the County shall cooperate in the development and selection of CDBG, ESG,
and HOME program activities and projects to be conducted or performed in the Cities during
each of the three program years and for each successive three-years covered by this Agreement.
The Cities understand and agree, however, that the County shall have final responsibility for
selecting the CDBG, ESG, and HOME program activities and projects to be included in each
annual grant request and for annually filing the Final Statements with HUD.

6. The Cities recognize and understand that the County, as a qualified urban county, will be the
entity required to execute all grant agreements received from HUD pursuant to the County’s
annual requests for CDBG, ESG, and HOME program funds and that as the grantee under the
CDBG, ESG, and HOME programs it will be held by HUD to be legally liable and responsible
for the overall administration and performance of the annual CDBG, ESG, and HOME programs,
including the projects and activities to be conducted in the Cities. By executing the Agreement,
the Cities understand that they (1) may not apply for grants from appropriations under the State
CDBG Program for fiscal years during the period in which it participates in the urban county's
CDBG program
; (2) may receive a formula allocation under the HOME Program only through the urban county.
Thus, even if the urban county does not receive a HOME formula allocation, Cities cannot form
a HOME consortium with other local governments, however no party shall be precluded from
applying to the State for HOME funds, if the state allows; and (3) may receive a formula
allocation under the ESG Program only through the urban county, however this does not
preclude any party from applying to the to the State for ESG funds, if the State law allows.

                                           Page 4 of 26
Accordingly, the Cities agree that as to all projects and activities performed or conducted in the
Cities under any CDBG, ESEG, or HOME program grant agreement received by the County
which includes the Cities, that the County shall have the ultimate supervisory and administrative
control.

7. The Cities shall cooperate fully with the County in all CDBG, ESG and HOME program
efforts planned and performed hereunder. The Cities agree to allow the County to undertake or
assist in undertaking, essential community development and housing assistance activities within
the Cities as may be approved and authorized in the County’s CDBG, ESG, and HOME grant
agreements, including the Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy (“CHAS”). The Cities
and the County also agree to cooperate to undertake, or assist in the undertaking, community
renewal and lower income housing assistance activities, specifically, urban renewal and publicly
assisted housing, as they may be planned and specified in the County’s Final Statements
submitted annually to HUD for the expenditure of CDBG, ESG, and HOME funds granted to the
County for such activities.

8. The Cities understand that it will be necessary for the Cities to enter into separate project
agreements or sub-grants in writing with the County with respect to the actual conduct of the
projects and activities approved for performance in the Cities and that the funds designated in the
County’s Final Statements for those projects and activities will also be funded to the City under
those separate project agreements or subgrants. Subject to the provisions of Paragraph 6 above,
the Cities will administer and control the performance of the projects and activities specified in
those separate project agreements, will be responsible for the expenditure of the funds allocated
for each such project or activity, and will conduct and perform the projects and activities in
compliance with the Regulations and all other applicable federal laws and requirements relating
to the CDBG, ESG, and HOME programs. The Cities also understand and agree that, pursuant
to 24 CFR 570.501 (b), they are subject to the same requirements applicable to subrecipients,
including the requirement of a written agreement as described in 24 CFR 570.503. Prior to
disbursing any CDBG, ESG, or HOME program funds to any subrecipients, the Cities shall enter
into written agreements with such subrecipients in compliance with 24 CFR 570.503 (CDBG) 24
CFR 576.500 (ESG), and 24 CFR 92.504 (HOME) of the Regulations.

9. All CDBG, ESG, and HOME program funds that are approved by HUD for expenditure under
the County’s grant agreements for the three Program years covered by this Agreement and its
extensions, including those that are identified for projects and activities in the Cities, will be
budgeted and allocated to the specific projects and activities described and listed in the County’s
Final Statement submitted annually to HUD and those allocated funds shall be used and
expended only for the projects or activities to which the funds are identified. No project or
activity, or the amount of funding allocated for such project or activity, may be changed,
modified, substituted or deleted by a City without the prior written approval of the County and
the approval of HUD when that approval is required by the Regulations.

10. Each City agrees to do all things that are appropriate and required of it to comply with the
applicable provisions of the grant agreements received by the County from HUD, the provisions
of the Acts, and all Rules and Regulations, guidelines, circulars and other requisites promulgated
by the various federal departments, agencies, administrations and commissions relating to the

                                           Page 5 of 26
CDBG, ESG, and HOME programs. The Cities and the County agree to adopt any amendment
to the Agreement incorporating all changes necessary to meet the requirements for cooperation
agreements set forth in the Urban County Qualification Notice applicable for a subsequent three-
year urban county qualification notice period, and to submit such amendment to HUD as
provided in the urban county qualification notice, and further agree that such failure to comply
will void the automatic renewal of such qualification period. In addition, the Cities and the
County shall take all actions necessary to assure compliance with the urban county's certification
under section 104(b) of Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, that
the grant will be conducted and administered in conformity with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964, and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 1, and the Fair Housing Act, and the
implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 100, and will affirmatively further fair housing. The
County and Cities shall comply with section 109 of Title I of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974, and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 6, which
incorporates Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and the implementing regulations at
24 CFR part 8, Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, and the implementing regulations
at 28 CFR part 35, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and the 14 implementing regulation at
24 CFR part 146, and Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, and with
other applicable laws. In addition, the Parties understand and agree that the County may not
provide any CDBG, ESG, or HOME Program funding for activities in or in support of any City
that does not affirmatively further fair housing within its jurisdiction, or that impedes the
County’s actions to comply with its fair housing certification. The Parties further agree to sign
the assurances and certifications in the HUD 424-B.

11. Each City affirms that it has adopted and is enforcing:

         (a) A policy prohibiting the use of excessive force by law enforcement agencies within
its jurisdiction against any individual engaged in non-violent civil rights demonstrations; and

       (b) a policy of enforcing applicable State and local laws against physically barring
entrance to or exit from a facility or location which is the subject of such non-violent civil rights
demonstrations within its jurisdiction.

12. During the period of performance of this Agreement as provided in Paragraph 3, each City
shall:

        (a) Report and pay to the County any program income, as defined in 24 CFR 570.500(a)
for the CDBG Program, 24 CFR 92.2 for the HOME Program, and 24 CFR Part 576.2 for the
ESG Program received by the City, or retain and use that program income subject to and in
accordance with the applicable program requirements and the provisions of the separate CDBG,
ESG, and HOME project agreements that will be entered into between the City and the County
for the actual conduct of the CDBG, ESG and HOME Programs;

       (b) Keep appropriate records regarding the receipt of, use of, or disposition of all
program income and make reports thereon to the County as will be required under the separate
CDBG, ESG, and HOME project agreements between the City and the County; and


                                            Page 6 of 26
       (c) Pay over to the County any program income that may be on hand in the event of
close-out or change in status of the City or that may be received subsequent to the close-out or
change in status as will be provided for in the separate CDBG, ESG, or HOME project
agreements mentioned above.

13. The separate CDBG project agreements or sub-grants that will be entered into between the
County and the Cities for the conduct of the CDBG Program, as mentioned and referred to
elsewhere in this agreement, shall include provisions setting forth the standards which shall
apply to any real property acquired or improved by the Cities in whole or in part using CDBG
Program funds. These standards will require the Cities to:

        (a) Notify the County in a timely manner of any modification or change in the use of that
property from the use planned at the time of the acquisition or improvement and this notice
requirements shall include any disposition of such property.
         (b) Reimburse the County in an amount equal to the current fair market value of property
acquired or improved with CDBG Program funds (less any portion thereof attributable to
expenditures of non-CDBG funds) that is sold or transferred for a use which does not qualify
under the regulations, and
         (c) Pay over to the County any Program income that is generated from the disposition or
transfer of property either prior to or subsequent to any close-out, change of status or termination
of this cooperation agreement or any separate project agreement that is applicable.

14. This Agreement shall be and remain in force and effect for the period of performance
specified in Paragraph 3. When the County has been qualified by HUD as an urban county for a
particular three-year qualification period, neither the County nor any City may terminate this
agreement or withdraw therefor during that three-year qualification period of performance;
provided, however, if the County fails to qualify as an urban county or does not receive CDBG,
ESG, or HOME Funding in any year of the three program years for which it has qualified, or if
any federal legislation should change the qualification or entitlement status of the County or any
City, the County may terminate this Agreement in whole or any City may withdraw from this
Agreement, subject to the termination provisions set forth in Paragraph 3.

15. If the County qualifies as an urban county and the City is included, during the three
program-years for which the County has qualified, the Parties agree not to veto or otherwise
obstruct the implementation of the approved Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy
(CHAS) during that three year period and for such additional time as may be required for the
expenditure of CHAS funds granted for that period.

16. No party to this Agreement may sell, trade, or otherwise transfer all or any portion of such
funds to another such metropolitan city, urban county, unit of general local government or Indian
tribe, or insular area that directly or indirectly receives CDBG funds in exchange for any other
funds, credits or non-Federal considerations, but must use such funds for activities eligible under
Title I of the Act. Found in the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014, Pub. L. 113-76.



                                           Page 7 of 26
17. The following provisions are also integral parts of this Agreement:

        (a) Binding Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the
benefit of the successors and assigns of the respective Parties hereto.

       (b) Captions. The headings used in this Agreement are inserted for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed to define, limit, extend, describe, or affect in any way the meaning,
scope or interpretation of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or the intent hereof.

        (c) Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts with the
same effect as if the signatures upon any counterpart were upon the same instrument. All signed
counterparts shall be deemed to be one original. A duly executed original counterpart of this
Agreement shall be filed with the keeper of records of each Party pursuant to Section 11-13-209
of the Interlocal Act.

        (d) Severability. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should any
provision hereof be void, voidable, unenforceable or invalid, such void, voidable, unenforceable
or invalid provision shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement.

       (e) Waiver of Breach. Any waiver by either Party of any breach of any kind or character
whatsoever by the other, whether such be direct or implied, shall not be construed as a
continuing waiver of or consent to any subsequent breach of this Agreement.

        (f) Cumulative Remedies. The rights and remedies of the Parties shall be construed
cumulatively, and none of such rights and remedies shall be exclusive of or in lieu or limitation
of, any other right, remedy or priority allowed by law.

       (g) Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified except by an instrument in
writing signed by the Parties hereto.

       (h) Time of Essence. Time is of the essence in this Agreement.

       (i) Interpretation. This Agreement shall be interpreted, construed and enforced
according to the substantive laws of the state of Utah and ordinances of Salt Lake County.

        (j) Notice. Any notice or other communication required or permitted to be given
hereunder shall be deemed to have been received (a) upon personal delivery or actual receipt
thereof or (b) within three (3) days after such notice is deposited in the United States mail,
postage prepaid and certified and addressed to the Parties at their respective addresses.

        (k) No Interlocal Entity. The Parties agree that they do not by this Agreement create an
interlocal entity.

       (l) Joint board. As required by Utah Code Ann. Sec. 11-13-207, the Parties agree that
any cooperative undertaking under this Agreement shall be administered by a joint board


                                           Page 8 of 26
consisting of the County’s designee and the Cities’ designee.

        (m) Financing Joining Cooperative Undertaking and Establishing Budget. If there is to
be financing of cooperative undertaking a budget shall be established or maintained as stated
herein.

        (n) Manner of Acquiring, Holding or Disposing of Property. In satisfaction of Section
11-13-207 (2) of the Interlocal Act, the Parties agree that the acquisition, holding and disposition
of real and personal property acquired pursuant to this Agreement shall be governed by the
provisions of applicable law.

        (o) Exhibits and Recitals. The Recitals set forth above and all exhibits to this Agreement
are incorporated herein to the same extent as if such items were set forth herein in their entity
within the body of this Agreement.

        (p) Attorney Approval. This Agreement shall be submitted to the authorized attorneys
for the County and the Cities for approval in accordance with Utah code Ann. Sec. 11-13-202.5.

        (q) Governmental Immunity. All Parties are governmental entities under the
Governmental Immunity Act, Utah Code Ann. Sec. 63G-7-101, et seq., therefore, consistent with
the terms of the Act, the Parties agree that each Party is responsible and liable for any wrongful
or negligent acts which it commits or which are committed by its agents, officials, or employees.
The Parties do not waive any defenses or limits of liability otherwise available under the
Governmental Immunity Act and all other applicable law, and the Parties maintain all privileges,
immunities, and other rights granted by the Act and all other applicable law.

        (r) Assignment. The Cities agree they shall not subcontract, assign, or transfer any rights
or duties under this agreement to any other party or agency without the prior written consent of
the County.

         (s) Ethical Standards. The Parties hereto represent that they have not: (a) provided an
illegal gift or payoff to any officer or employee, or former officer or employee, or to any relative
or business entity of any officer or employee, or relative or business entity of a former officer or
employee of the other Party hereto; (b) retained any person to solicit or secure this contract upon
an agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage or contingent fee, other
than bona fide employees of bona fide commercial agencies established for the purpose of
securing business; (c) breached any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute or Salt Lake
County’s Ethics, Gifts and Honoraria ordinance (Chapter 2.07, Salt Lake County Code of
Ordinances); or (d) knowingly influenced, and hereby promise that they will not knowingly
influence, any officer or employee or former officer or employee to breach any of the ethical
standards set forth in State statute, Salt Lake County ordinances.

        (t) Supersedes & Terminates Prior Related Interlocal Agreements. This Agreement
supersedes a similar agreement, Salt Lake County Contract No. 0000002580 (the “Prior
Agreement”), which pertained to similar subject matter as the Agreement. The Prior Agreement
will remain in effect for CDBG, ESG, and HOME funds received for Federal fiscal years 2021-

                                           Page 9 of 26
2023. The Prior Agreement will terminate after such funds and program income received (with
respect to activities carried out during the three-year period ending June 30, 2024) are expended
and the funded activities are completed.


                                  [Signature pages to follow]

                   SIGNATURE PAGE FOR SALT LAKE COUNTY
                                       TO THE
                    INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                              Relating to the conduct of
               COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
                 HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                   EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM
                                          For
                  FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                      And successive three-year periods thereafter




                                            SALT LAKE COUNTY

                                            By: ___________________
                                                  Mayor or Designee


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:



By: ____________________
    John E. Diaz
   Deputy District Attorney
   Salt Lake County




                                         Page 10 of 26
                    SIGNATURE PAGE FOR TOWN OF ALTA
                                     TO THE
                  INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                            Relating to the conduct of
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
               HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                 EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM
                                        For
                FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                    And successive three-year periods thereafter




                                   TOWN OF ALTA

                                   By: ___________________
                                         Mayor or Designee


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:



By: ____________________
Name: __________________
Title: ____________________
Date: _______________




                                 Page 11 of 26
                 SIGNATURE PAGE FOR TOWN OF BRIGHTON
                                     TO THE
                  INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                            Relating to the conduct of
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
               HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                 EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM
                                        For
                FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                    And successive three-year periods thereafter




                                   TOWN OF BRIGHTON

                                   By: ___________________
                                         Mayor or Designee


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:



By: ____________________
Name: __________________
Title: ____________________
Date: _______________




                                 Page 12 of 26
                   SIGNATURE PAGE FOR BLUFFDALE CITY
                                      TO THE
                  INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                             Relating to the conduct of
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
               HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                 EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM
                                         For
                FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                     And successive three-year periods thereafter




                                    BLUFFDALE CITY

                                    By: ___________________
                                          Mayor or Designee


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:



By: ____________________
Name: __________________
Title: ____________________
Date: _______________




                                 Page 13 of 26
              SIGNATURE PAGE FOR COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
                                      TO THE
                   INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                             Relating to the conduct of
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
                 HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                  EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM
                                         For
                  FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                     And successive three-year periods thereafter




                                    COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP

                                    By: ___________________
                                          Mayor or Designee


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:



By: ____________________
Name: __________________
Title: ____________________
Date: _______________




                                 Page 14 of 26
              SIGNATURE PAGE FOR COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                                      TO THE
                   INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                             Relating to the conduct of
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
                HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                  EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM
                                         For
                 FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                     And successive three-year periods thereafter




                                    COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY

                                    By: ___________________
                                          Mayor or Designee


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:



By: ____________________
Name: __________________
Title: ____________________
Date: _______________




                                 Page 15 of 26
                    SIGNATURE PAGE FOR DRAPER CITY
                                     TO THE
                  INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                            Relating to the conduct of
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
               HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                 EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM
                                        For
                FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                    And successive three-year periods thereafter




                                   DRAPER CITY

                                   By: ___________________
                                         Mayor or Designee


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:



By: ____________________
Name: __________________
Title: ____________________
Date: _______________




                                 Page 16 of 26
        SIGNATURE PAGE FOR EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP
                                    TO THE
                 INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                           Relating to the conduct of
            COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
              HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM
                                       For
                FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                   And successive three-year periods thereafter




                                   EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
                                   TOWNSHIP

                                   By: ___________________
                                         Mayor or Designee


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:



By: ____________________
Name: __________________
Title: ____________________
Date: _______________




                                 Page 17 of 26
                   SIGNATURE PAGE FOR HOLLADAY CITY
                                     TO THE
                  INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                            Relating to the conduct of
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
               HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                 EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM
                                        For
                FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                    And successive three-year periods thereafter




                                   HOLLADAY CITY

                                   By: ___________________
                                         Mayor or Designee


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:


By: ____________________
Name: __________________
Title: ____________________
Date: _______________




                                 Page 18 of 26
               SIGNATURE PAGE FOR KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
                                      TO THE
                   INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                             Relating to the conduct of
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
                HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                  EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM
                                         For
                  FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                     And successive three-year periods thereafter



                                    KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP

                                    By: ___________________
                                          Mayor or Designee


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:


By: ____________________
Name: __________________
Title: ____________________
Date: _______________




                                 Page 19 of 26
               SIGNATURE PAGE FOR MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
                                      TO THE
                   INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                             Relating to the conduct of
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
                HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                  EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM
                                         For
                  FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                     And successive three-year periods thereafter



                                    MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP

                                    By: ___________________
                                          Mayor or Designee


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:


By: ____________________
Name: __________________
Title: ____________________
Date: _______________




                                 Page 20 of 26
                SIGNATURE PAGE FOR MIDVALE CITY CORP.
                                     TO THE
                  INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                            Relating to the conduct of
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
               HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                 EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM
                                        For
                FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                    And successive three-year periods thereafter




                                   MIDVALE CITY CORP.

                                   By: ___________________
                                         Mayor or Designee


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:


By: ____________________
Name: __________________
Title: ____________________
Date: _______________




                                 Page 21 of 26
                     SIGNATURE PAGE FOR MILLCREEK
                                     TO THE
                  INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                            Relating to the conduct of
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
               HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                 EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM
                                        For
                FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                    And successive three-year periods thereafter




                                   MILLCREEK

                                   By: ___________________
                                         Mayor or Designee


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:


By: ____________________
Name: __________________
Title: ____________________
Date: _______________




                                 Page 22 of 26
                    SIGNATURE PAGE FOR MURRAY CITY
                                     TO THE
                  INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                            Relating to the conduct of
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
               HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                 EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM
                                        For
                FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                    And successive three-year periods thereafter




                                   MURRAY CITY

                                   By: ___________________
                                         Mayor or Designee


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:


By: ____________________
Name: __________________
Title: ____________________
Date: _______________




                                 Page 23 of 26
                    SIGNATURE PAGE FOR RIVERTON CITY
                                      TO THE
                  INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                             Relating to the conduct of
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
               HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                 EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM
                                         For
                FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                     And successive three-year periods thereafter




                                    RIVERTON CITY

                                    By: ___________________
                                          Mayor or Designee


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:


By: ____________________
Name: __________________
Title: ____________________
Date: _______________




                                 Page 24 of 26
               SIGNATURE PAGE FOR CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE
                                      TO THE
                   INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                             Relating to the conduct of
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
                HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                  EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM
                                         For
                  FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                     And successive three-year periods thereafter




                                    CITY OF SOUTH SALT LAKE

                                    By: ___________________
                                          Mayor or Designee


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:

By: ____________________
Name: __________________
Title: ____________________
Date: _______________




                                 Page 25 of 26
              SIGNATURE PAGE FOR WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
                                      TO THE
                   INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                             Relating to the conduct of
             COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM,
                 HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM, &
                  EMERGENCY SOLUTIONS GRANT PROGRAM
                                         For
                  FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2024 THROUGH 2026
                     And successive three-year periods thereafter




                                    WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP

                                    By: ___________________
                                          Mayor or Designee


Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:


By: ____________________
Name: __________________
Title: ____________________
Date: _______________




                                 Page 26 of 26
Discussion
 Item #3
                                      Department/Agency
                                      Finance & Administration
                                      FY 2023-2024 Budget Amendment


                                      Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                      Meeting Date: September 12, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Amend the FY 2023-2024 budget
Brenda Moore
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Discussion
801-264-2513
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Memo outlining changes to the budget
Brenda Moore

                    Budget Impact
                         Budget Amendment


                    Description of this Item
Required Time for                     The State of Utah laws do not allow for multi-year
Presentation                             budgets, or automatic carry forward of budgets.

15 Minutes                            This is the annual roll forward of projects and specific
Is This Time                              items from the FY2023 budget to FY2024, along
                                          with new grant receipts, insurance adjustments
Sensitive                                 due to open enrollment changes, and FY2024 new
Yes                                       items. The number of items is lengthy so I put
                                          them in the attached memo.
Mayor’s Approval                      Some of the projects and amounts in the attached
                                          memo may change between now and the
                                          September 19 public hearing.
Date
August 29, 2023
          MURRAY CITY CORPORATION                                                      Brenda Moore, Director
          FINANCE & ADMINISTRATION                                                     801-264-2513




TO:     Murray City Municipal Council

From: Brenda Moore, Finance & Administration Director

Date:   August 29, 2023

Re:     Fiscal Year 2024 Budget Opening – Committee of the Whole September 12

A budget opening public hearing has been scheduled for September 19. The opening will request funds
and budget adjustments for the following purposes:
       • Projects in-progress at FY 2023 Year-end (CIP annual roll-forward)
       • Receive and allocate several grant awards
       • Reconcile changes in wages and benefits due to health insurance open enrollment changes.
       • New project or needs for FY2024

The city is still receiving and paying invoices for work performed in fiscal 2023. The amounts below may
change until the public hearing.

Grants Received/rolled forward (All General Fund unless indicated otherwise)
   1. Appropriate $2,445 from reserves for donations & sponsorships received but unspent by the
       Park Center.
   2. Appropriate $190,578 restricted Alcohol funds from reserves for police equipment. The police
       spent $101,574 in FY2023 on qualified equipment, this is the remaining balance.
   3. Appropriate $1,044 from the remaining 2022 JAG grant proceeds to Police small equipment.
   4. In the Library Fund, receive and appropriate $495 Utah State Department of Cultural and
       Community Engagement to distribute free period products.
   5. In the Capital Projects Fund receive $758,273 of TRCC funds and appropriate to the Murray
       Mansion Project.
   6. In the Capital Improvement Project Fund receive $100,000 of TRCC funds and appropriate to the
       toddler playground project.
   7. In the Capital Improvement Project Fund receive $3,243,612 of TRCC funds and appropriate to
       the Murray Theater project.
   8. In the Water Fund receive $613,520 Capital donation reimbursement from UDOT and
       appropriate to infrastructure for moving the 300 W I215 water line.


Revenue-Expense Neutral
   9. In General Fund reallocate insurance expenditures among departments due to open enrollment.
   10. In the General Fund appropriate $5,000 concession revenue and appropriate to concession
       supplies.




               Murray City Municipal Building   5025 South State Street   Murray, Utah 84107
From Reserve
   11. Appropriate insurance changes due to open enrollment from reserves:
          a. Power Fund $9,557.
          b. Murray Parkway Pro Shop $307
          c. Stormwater Fund $6,171

Rollover Projects from FY23 to FY24 – All from restricted reserves
    General Fund Class C - Total $1,280,275
    12. Various sidewalk projects $85,933
    13. Various sealer projects $6,068
    14. Traffic Signal Maintenance $25,000
    15. Various overlays for $944,314 which include:
            a. White springs, Walden Hills & Shadow Wood $150,000
            b. Riverbend $115,000
            c. Potomac area Cul-de-Sacs $250,000
            d. Morning Dew, Daisy Ln & Daisy Cir $75,000
            e. 4800 S – UP tracks to state street $354,314
    16. Winchester & 700 W signal maintenance federal grant match $218,960

   Enterprise Funds
   17. Water Fund – Total $1,678,898
           a. Water Master Plan $48,355
           b. Bobcat change out program $7,500
           c. Savings for AMI system $89,964
           d. Various pipe replacement projects $97,682
           e. Bonnyview 8 inch pipe reimbursement $472,083
           f. Winchester – State to Trax waterline replacement $963,314
   18. Wastewater Fund – Total $900,000
           a. Fairborne lift station liner project $250,000
           b. Sewer line replacement 5800 S to 6000 East of state $650,000
   19. Murray Parkway Golf Course – Total $45,000
           a. mitigation of potential residential hazards $25,000
           b. Slurry Seal maintenance parking lot $20,000
   20. Solid Waste – 1 Ton pickup truck $75,000
   21. Storm Water - Clover meadows storm drain $1,153,155
   22. Central Garage – Fuel Station repairs $44,000
   23. Power Fund – Total $1,672,469
           a. Transformer $1,500,000
           b. On call bucket truck $172,469

   Capital Improvement Projects Fund – total moved forward total $14,338,963
   24. Clean energy vehicle/equipment $85,051
   25. Court equipment replacement plan $47,717, some if for remaining parts of the sound system.
   26. City Hall Christmas display $250,000.
   27. Non departmental city hall equipment replacement plan $32,813
28. Police equipment replacement plan $292,822, cars and equipment to outfit them.
29. Fire Equipment, total of $1,638,036
        a. Radios $128,560
        b. Ambulance $345,000
        c. Brush type 6 truck $185,000
        d. Ladder Truck savings - $943,186
        e. Equipment for battalion chief F250 $36,290
30. Parks – total $7,002,760
        a. Parks maintenance projects $39,044
        b. Parks armory project professional services $305,900
        c. Parks storage facility $1,108,864
        d. Parks equipment savings $128,300
        e. Parks Garbage truck savings $134,000
        f. Park Center equipment replacement plan $3,306
        g. Sound system Murray amphitheater $63,787 (left over from seating budget)
        h. Recreation equipment replacement plan $18,235
        i. Senior Recreation Center equipment replacement plan $9,425
        j. Senior Recreation Center savings for shed to park bus in $5,000
        k. Cemetery equipment replacement plan $51,802
        l. Murray Theater building demo & parking lot construction $150,000
        m. Murray Theater renovation project $3,132,001
        n. Facilities – Emergency Fund $1,109,438
        o. Facilities – Senior rec exterior fascia panels, drop ceiling $80,000 (not done due to study)
        p. Facilities – Park Center grout and retile showers/locker rooms $90,000
        q. Facilities – Buildings roll forward including Murray Mansion $573,658
31. Community & Economic Development – total $132,043
        a. Scanning project - $80,000
        b. Building department equipment savings $17,043
        c. Code Enforcement vehicle $35,000
32. Information Technology - total $267,228
        a. Equipment replacements $200,589
        b. User profile migration software $25,000
        c. Security auditing software $25,000
        d. GIS equipment replacement plan $16,639
33. Streets – Safety signage $16,899
34. Streets – Equipment - total $486,000. Includes $104,000 new money from transportation sales
    tax budget overage in FY2023.
        a. Bobtail truck do all $245,000
        b. International Plow with spreader $241,000
35. Streets projects – Transportation tax & Bond proceeds total $4,087,594
        a. 300 W Big Cottonwood Deck replacement $1,000,000
        b. Vine Street State to 900 E overlay $1,450,000
        c. Commerce drive 5300 S to 5900 S overlay $325,000
        d. 700 W – Winchester to south city limits overlay $375,000
        e. 300 E – 6240 S to Winchester overlay $200,000
            f.   Walden wood rebuild $130,000
            g.   College and 5300 intersection federal grant match $75,000
            h.   Bonny view (State restricted Funds) $500,000
            i.   Miscellaneous projects $32,594

  From Reserves – FY2024 new items
    36. In the General Fund appropriate $61,865 from reserves to Community and Economic
        Development Salaries and Benefits for difference in Director Compensation and the required
        payouts to the former director.
    37. In the Water Fund appropriate from reserves $15,442 for salaries and benefits due to personnel
        change.

There will also be a Municipal Building Authority meeting to roll the remaining City Hall construction
budget forward of $898,272.

Please contact me if you would like further explanation of any of these items.
                                  ORDINANCE NO.

    AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CITY’S FISCAL YEAR 2023-2024 BUDGET

   On August 22, 2023, the Murray City Municipal Council adopted the City’s budget for
Fiscal Year 2023-2024. It has been proposed that the Fiscal Year 2023-2024 budget be
amended as follows:

      1. Appropriate the following items from General Fund reserves:

             a. Increase the budget $1,280,275 for prior year Class C Road maintenance
                and infrastructure projects in process;

             b. Increase the budget $190,578 for state alcohol funds for police
                equipment;

             c. Increase the budget $2,445 for Park Center sponsorship and donation
                money for recreation programs contributed and unspent in the previous
                year, and;

             d. Increase the budget $61,865 for salaries and benefits in the Community
                and Economic Development department.

      2. Receive and appropriate the following grants and/or reimbursements in the
         General Fund with no financial impact:

             a. Increase the budget $1,044 from the Federal Justice Department JAG
                grant for police equipment;

             b. Transfer health insurance expenditures between General                fund
                departments as necessary due to open enrollment changes.

      3. In the General Fund receive $5,000 in concession revenue and appropriate to
         concession supplies.

      4. In the Library Fund receive and appropriate $495 for the State Department of
         Cultural and Community Engagement Period Products grant.

      5. Appropriate $14,338,963 from the Capital Improvement Projects (CIP) Fund
         reserves for projects in progress from the previous year’s budget including:

             a. Increase the budget $385,900 for professional services;

             b. Increase the    budget   $4,969,523   for   building   construction   and
                improvement;
      c. Increase the budget $1,418,482 for maintenance of City buildings and
         equipment;

      d. Increase the budget $3,477,464 for vehicle and equipment replacement,
         and;

      e. Increase the budget $4,087,594 for streets infrastructure.

6. In the Capital Improvement Projects Fund receive $4,101,885 in TRCC funding
   from Salt Lake County and appropriate as follows:

      a. Increase the budget by $758,273 for the Murray Museum project;

      b. Increase the budget by $100,000 for the toddler playground, and;

      c. Increase the budget by $3,243,612 for the Murray Theater project.

7. Appropriate $1,694,340 from the Water Fund reserves for the following:

      a. Increase the budget by 89,964 for AMI metering system;

      b. Increase the budget by $15,442 for salaries and benefits;

      c. Increase the budget by $7,500 for the bobcat change out program;

      d. Increase the budget by $48,355 for professional services for a water
         master plan, and;

      e. Increase the budget by $1,533,079 for well and pipeline replacement
         projects in progress from the previous year’s budget.

8. In the Water Fund receive $613,520 capital reimbursement from UDOT and
   appropriate to infrastructure for the 300 W water line move.

9. Appropriate $900,000 from the Wastewater Fund reserves for maintenance and
   infrastructure.

10. Appropriate $1,682,026 from the Power Fund reserves for the following:

      a. Increase the budget by $9,557 for employee health insurance changes;

      b. Increase the budget by $1,500,000 for infrastructure improvements, and;

      c. Increase the budget by $172,469 for truck and equipment replacement.

11. Appropriate $45,307 from the Murray Parkway Fund reserves for the following:
             a. Increase the budget by $307 for additional health insurance benefits;

             b. Increase the budget by $25,000 for possible residence hazard mitigation,
                and;

             c. Increase the budget by $20,000 to slurry seal the maintenance area
                parking lot.

      12. Appropriate $75,000 from the Solid Waste Fund reserves for a 1-ton service
         truck.

      13. Appropriate $1,159,326 from the Stormwater Fund reserves for the following:

             a. Increase the budget by $1,153,155 for infrastructure, and;

             b. Increase the budget by $6,171 for insurance benefits.

      14. Appropriate $44,000 from Central Garage Fund reserves for fuel station repairs.


   Section 10-6-128 of the Utah Code states that the budget for the City may be amended
by the Murray City Municipal Council following a duly noticed public hearing. Pursuant to
proper notice, the Murray City Municipal Council held a public hearing on September 19,
2023, to consider proposed amendments to the Fiscal Year 2022-2023 budget. After
considering public comment, the Murray City Municipal Council wants to amend the Fiscal
Year 2023-2024 budget.

 Section 1. Enactment. The City’s Fiscal Year 2023-2024 budget shall be amended as
follows:

      1. Appropriate the following items from General Fund reserves:

             a. Increase the budget $1,280,275 for prior year Class C Road maintenance
                and infrastructure projects in process;

             b. Increase the budget $190,578 for state alcohol funds for police
                equipment;

             c. Increase the budget $2,445 for Park Center sponsorship and donation
                money for recreation programs contributed and unspent in the previous
                year, and;

             d. Increase the budget $61,865 for salaries and benefits in the Community
                and Economic Development department.
2. Receive and appropriate the following grants and/or reimbursements in the
   General Fund with no financial impact:

      a. Increase the budget $1,044 from the Federal Justice Department JAG
         grant for police equipment;

      b. Transfer health insurance expenditures between General                  fund
         departments as necessary due to open enrollment changes.

3. In the General Fund receive $5,000 in concession revenue and appropriate to
   concession supplies.

4. In the Library Fund receive and appropriate $495 for the State Department of
   Cultural and Community Engagement Period Products grant.

5. Appropriate $14,338,963 from the Capital Improvement Projects (CIP) Fund
   reserves for projects in progress from the previous year’s budget including:

      a. Increase the budget $385,900 for professional services;

      b. Increase the     budget   $4,969,523    for   building   construction   and
         improvement;

      c. Increase the budget $1,418,482 for maintenance of City buildings and
         equipment;

      d. Increase the budget $3,477,464 for vehicle and equipment replacement,
         and;

      e. Increase the budget $4,087,594 for streets infrastructure.

6. In the Capital Improvement Projects Fund receive $4,101,885 in TRCC funding
   from Salt Lake County and appropriate as follows:

      a. Increase the budget by $758,273 for the Murray Museum project;

      b. Increase the budget by $100,000 for the toddler playground, and;

      c. Increase the budget by $3,243,612 for the Murray Theater project.

7. Appropriate $1,694,340 from the Water Fund reserves for the following:

      a. Increase the budget by 89,964 for AMI metering system;

      b. Increase the budget by $15,442 for salaries and benefits;
       c. Increase the budget by $7,500 for the bobcat change out program;

       d. Increase the budget by $48,355 for professional services for a water
          master plan, and;

       e. Increase the budget by $1,533,079 for well and pipeline replacement
          projects in progress from the previous year’s budget.

8. In the Water Fund receive $613,520 capital reimbursement from UDOT and
   appropriate to infrastructure for the 300 W water line move.

9. Appropriate $900,000 from the Wastewater Fund reserves for maintenance and
   infrastructure.

10. Appropriate $1,682,026 from the Power Fund reserves for the following:

       a. Increase the budget by $9,557 for employee health insurance changes;

       b. Increase the budget by $1,500,000 for infrastructure improvements, and;

       c. Increase the budget by $172,469 for truck and equipment replacement.

11. Appropriate $45,307 from the Murray Parkway Fund reserves for the following:

       a. Increase the budget by $307 for additional health insurance benefits;

       b. Increase the budget by $25,000 for possible residence hazard mitigation,
          and;

       c. Increase the budget by $20,000 to slurry seal the maintenance area
          parking lot.

12. Appropriate $75,000 from the Solid Waste Fund reserves for a 1-ton service
   truck.

13. Appropriate $1,159,326 from the Stormwater Fund reserves for the following:

       a. Increase the budget by $1,153,155 for infrastructure, and;

       b. Increase the budget by $6,171 for insurance benefits.

14. Appropriate $44,000 from Central Garage Fund reserves for fuel station repairs.



Section 2. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect on first publication.
       PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this ___ day of ___________, 2023.

                                        MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL


                                        _____________________________________
                                        Garry Hrechkosy, Chair
ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

      DATED this ____ day of __________, 2023.



                                        _____________________________________
                                        Brett Hales, Mayor
ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder




                           CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

       I hereby certify that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published according
to law on the ___ day of _________, 2023.


                                        ____________________________________
                                        Brooke Smith, City Recorder
                    RESOLUTION NO. R_____


      A RESOLUTION AMENDING THE BUDGET FOR THE MUNICIPAL
      BUILDING AUTHORITY OF MURRAY CITY FOR FISCAL YEAR
      2023-2024.

        WHEREAS, the Municipal Building Authority of Murray City (“Authority”) is a
nonprofit corporation created in 1986 by the Municipal Council of Murray City, Utah (the
“City”) pursuant to the Local Building Authority Act, Title 17D, Chapter 2, Utah Code
Annotated 1953, as amended (the “Building Authority Act”) and the Utah Revised
Nonprofit Corporation Act, Title 16, Chapter 6a, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as
amended; and

       WHEREAS, the Authority was created by the City for the purpose of financing
projects on behalf of the City as provided in the Building Authority Act; and

       WHEREAS, the City has a critical need for a new City Hall due to the poor
condition of the existing City Hall; and

       WHEREAS, on June 27, 2023, the Authority adopted the Authority’s budget for
Fiscal Year 2023-2024. It has been proposed that the Fiscal Year 2023-2024 budget be
amended as follows:

      Appropriate $898,272 from the Municipal Building Authority Fund reserves for the
new City Hall construction project (building construction and equipment); and

      WHEREAS, a public hearing was held on September 19, 2023, and all interested
persons were provided the opportunity to be heard at the public hearing; and

      WHEREAS the Authority’s Board of Trustees wants to approve an amendment to
the budget for fiscal year 2023-2024.

       NOW BE IT RESOLVED by the Municipal Building Authority of Murray City as
follows:

       The Municipal Building Authority Fund Budget shall be amended by appropriating
$898,272 from the Municipal Building Authority Fund reserves for the new City Hall
Project (building construction and equipment).

      PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Municipal Building Authority of
Murray City on this day of  , 2023.

                                               MUNICIPAL BUILDING AUTHORITY
                                               OF MURRAY CITY
                                    ________________________________
                                     Garry Hrechkosy, Chair - President

ATTEST:



___________________________
Diane Turner, Secretary-Treasurer
Discussion
 Item #4
                                    Community & Economic
                                    Development
                                   Parking Amendments for Beauty
                                   and Barber Services

                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗September 12, 2023


Department             Purpose of Proposal
Director                 The applicant is requesting an amendment to parking spaces
Phil Markham             required for Beauty and Barber Shops.
                       Action Requested
Phone #                  Zoning Text Amendment
801-270-2427
                       Attachments
Presenters
                         Proposed Ordinance and Staff Report
Phil Markham, Director
Zachary Smallwood,
Senior Planner         Budget Impact
                         None


                       Description of this /tem
Required Time for        Representatives of LIV Salons are requesting a text amendment
Presentation             to the parking standards in chapter 17.72.070 regarding Beauty
                         and Barber Services.
15 minutes

Is This Time             The existing parking standard is out of date compared to most
                         cities and staff is recommending to update the code to be more
Sensitive                consistent with other land uses in the city.
No
                         The Planning Commission voted 4-0 to forward a positive
Mayor’s Approval         recommendation on an amended text. Staff concurs with the
                         changes.

Date
:ĂŶƵĂƌǇϯϭ͕ϮϬϭϴ
                               Murray City Corporation
                                      NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING


        NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that on the 19th day of September, 2023, at the
hour of 6:30 p.m. of said day in the Council Chambers of Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800
South, Murray, Utah, the Murray City Municipal Council will hold and conduct a hearing
on and pertaining to a text amendment to section 17.72.070 of the Murray City
Municipal Code, relating to changing how required parking spaces are determined for
beauty and barber shops and business and professional offices based on the square
feet of net usable floor space.

      The purpose of this hearing is to receive public comment concerning the
proposed amendment as described above.


        DATED this 30th day of August 2023.

                                               MURRAY CITY CORPORATION


                                               ___________________________________
                                               Brooke Smith
                                               City Recorder



DATE OF PUBLICATION: 8/30/2023

1. Mailed to each affected entity.
2. Utah Public Notice Website
3. City’s Website.
4. In at least one public location.
                              ORDINANCE NO. _______


      AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 17.72.070 OF THE MURRAY CITY
      MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR BEAUTY
      AND BARBER SHOPS AND BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL OFFICES.

      BE IT ENACTED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:

      Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to amend Section
17.72.070 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to Parking Requirements for
Beauty and Barber Shops and Business and Professional Offices.

       Section 2. Amendment to Section 17.72.070 of the Murray City Municipal Code.
Sections 17.72.070 of the Murray City Municipal Code shall be amended to read as
follows:


17.72.070: PARKING SPACES REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the number of off street parking spaces for
various uses will be as follows:

….


 Beauty and barber shops                    3 spaces for each chair.1 parking space
                                            per 200 square feet of net usable floor
                                            area.
 Bowling alleys                             4 spaces for each alley.
 Business offices or professional offices   4 parking spaces for each 1,000 square
 (excluding medical and dental offices)     feet of net floor area.1 parking space for
                                            250 square feet of net usable floor area.

….

      Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first publication.


       PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this ______ day of ______________________________, 2023.
                                        MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                        _____________________________________
                                        Garry Hrechkosy, Chair

ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith
City Recorder




     Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this ____ day of
___________, 2023.


MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

      DATED this ____ day of _______________, 2023




                                        _____________________________________
                                        Brett A. Hales, Mayor


ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith
City Recorder

                                          2
                          CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

       I hereby certify that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published according
to law on the ___ day of _________, 2023.



                                        _____________________________________
                                        Brooke Smith
                                        City Recorder




                                           3
Minutes of the Planning Commission meeting held on Thursday, June 1, 2023, at 6:32 p.m. in
the Murray City Municipal Council Chambers, 5025 South State Street, Murray, Utah.

The public was able to view the meeting via the live stream at http://www.murraycitylive.com or
https://www.facebook.com/Murraycityutah/. Individuals wishing to make comments on an
agenda item may submit comments via email at planningcommission@murray.utah.gov.

Present:       Jake Pehrson, Chair
               Lisa Milkavich, Vice-Chair
               Ned Hacker
               Michael Richards
               Jared Hall, CED Director
               Susan Nixon, Senior Planner
               Zachary Smallwood, Senior Planner
               Mustafa Al Janabi, Planner 1

Excused:       Travis Nay
               Maren Patterson
               Jeremy Lowry

The Staff Review meeting was held from 6:00 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. The Planning Commission
members briefly reviewed the applications on the agenda. An audio recording is available at the
Murray City Community and Economic Development Department Office.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES

Mr. Nay moved to approve the minutes from the April 6, 2023 Planning Commission meeting.
Seconded by Mr. Hacker. A voice vote was made, motion passed 4-0.

CONFLICT OF INTEREST

There were no conflicts of interest for this meeting.

APPROVAL OF FINDINGS OF FACT

There were no Findings of Fact for this meeting.

LAND USE TEXT AMENDMENT - Sections 17.16.010(A) and (D) - Modifications to the minimum
number of Hearing Officers and number of consecutive terms allowed – Project #23-047

Ms. Nixon presented the application for Murray City, Community & Economic Development
Department. This proposed modification to section 17.16.010, which references the appeal
authority or hearing officer. The city has many boards and commissions appointed by the mayor,
one of which are the hearing officers. They are residents of Murray City who volunteer their time.
The code has a minimum of three officers. This amendment proposes to have a minimum of two
officers. The current maximum number of terms is three, with each term being three years, for a
total of nine years. The requested amendment proposes to increase up to five terms, with each
term remaining three years, for a total of fifteen years. The hearing officer serves in a quasi-
judicial capacity. The requirements for qualifications are geared towards former planning
commissioners, attorneys, or someone with some land use background. It is more difficult to fill.
Planning Commission
June 1, 2023
Page 2

Murray does prefer to have its residents serve in this role. One reason is that they have a more
vested interested and the other reason is that they are more familiar with the city. They need
enough training and experience to qualify them to conduct administrative or quasi-judicial
hearings regarding land use, land development and regulatory codes related to land use.
Hearing officers review request for variances, and expansions for nonconforming uses and
structures, as well as being the appeal authority for the planning commission and administrative
decisions. Ms. Nixon welcomed questions.

Ms. Milkavich asked what happens if we are out of compliance with the number of officers and
what if the number of officers and term length wording is more suggestive rather than mandative.
Ms. Nixon said we do need to specify in the code. The Planning Commission would need to at
least state that there is no minimum or maximum amount of terms. Ms. Milkavich stated that
she supports term limits.

Mr. Hacker asked if decreasing the number of required hearing officers would put the city in a
predicament. Ms. Nixon said that it has not been an issue in the past. Mr. Hacker then asked if
it precludes the mayor from having more than two. Ms. Nixon stated the request is for a
minimum of two officers.

Mr. Pehrson asked how many of these decisions are variance versus appeals. Ms. Nixon stated
that appeals are very rare.

Notices were sent to affected entities for this text amendment. As of the date of this report, no
public comments have been made. Public comment was open.

Mr. Jim Harland, one of the hearing officers, spoke. He thanked the staff for the great job they
do. He stated that the quality of their staff reports makes his job much easier. He said that the
job is challenging. He said hearing officers operate in a more refined manner, being careful what
they say and how they say it. Decisions are sometimes difficult and sometimes requires having
to ask residents or contractors to tear down structures. He stated that he is willing to serve as
long as he can. Ms. Nixon thanked him for his time and service.

Public comment was closed.

Ms. Milkavich made a motion to forward a recommendation of approval to the city council for the
proposed text amendments to section 17.16.010.A & D, as reviewed.

Mr. Richards seconded. Roll Call Vote:

 A     Pehrson
 A     Hacker
 A     Richards
 A     Milkavich

Motion passed 4-0.
Planning Commission
June 1, 2023
Page 3

LAND USE TEXT AMENDMENT - 17.72.070 - Modifications to beauty and barber shop parking
standards and renaming office and service uses - Off-Street Parking - Project #23-051
Mr. Smallwood presented Greg Griffin's request to amend the land use ordinance for parking
regulations at hair and beauty salons. The applicant’s proposed changes would amend the
current parking requirements based on the number of parking spaces per salon chair to the type
of business operating in the suite or studio. If the primary tenants engage in retail sales, the
proposal suggested one parking space per 200 square feet, and if they do not engage in retail
sales, the requirement would be one parking space per 250 square feet of total space; however,
staff found this approach to be a bit complicated and cumbersome to monitor. To address the
matter, the Planning Division looked into what other cities in the county and nearby regions had
implemented. Most cities had a general parking standard of one space for approximately every
244 square feet. Only South Jordan City stood out with a different standard, requiring three
spaces per chair.
After analyzing the data, Planning Division staff recommended a streamlined approach for
parking regulations, treating hair and beauty salons more like other office or professional uses.
The proposal involved striking the specific beauty and barbershop standard and retitling the
category as "offices and/or professional service uses," except for medical and dental businesses
that may require more parking due to their higher impact. The new recommendation was to have
four parking spaces for every 1000 square feet of net floor area.
Mr. Smallwood provided an example to illustrate the application of the original and new parking
standards for a day spa with multiple uses. Under the existing regulations, 30 parking spaces
were required for ten chairs, one office space, and a reception area with retail display. This
calculation was based on excluding certain areas like restrooms and hallways not primarily used
for working. However, the revised proposal would require ten parking spaces based on the one
space per 250 square feet calculation, or approximately twelve to thirteen spaces based on the
one space per 200 net square feet calculation.
Ms. Milkavich stated that she conducted extensive research, and visited multiple salons to look
at how they operate. Initially, she felt that the three spaces per chair was not necessary, but
getting into the specifics of layouts of salons she felt it deserved a more robust conversation.
Mr. Smallwood stated that for example a 3,000 square foot salon, would require 12-13 parking
spaces using a standard of 1 per 200 sq ft. He noted he could also provide the numbers for a 1
per 150 sq ft standard, which would equate to around 17 spaces.
Mr. Richards asked about the math because using 1 per 200 sq ft for the 3600 sq ft spa should
result in 16 spaces. Mr. Smallwood explained they use the net usable square footage, not the
total gross square footage, to calculate parking requirements. They typically reduce the gross
square footage by 15-20% to account for spaces like hallways that don't require parking. The net
usable square footage is lower than the gross. Mr. Pehrson pointed out that using the gross
square footage of 3600 sq ft and 1 per 200 sq ft would result in 16 required spaces, quite
different from the 12-13 spaces using the net square footage. Mr. Smallwood agreed it was a
significant difference of 3 parking spaces between calculations based on net versus gross
square footage for this example salon. Going from net to gross increased the required parking
by around 20%. Mr. Pehrson did a quick math check and stated that for the 3600 sq ft salon,
using 1 per 200 sq ft of the gross square footage would equate to 16 spaces. He asked if other
cities use gross or net square footage for their parking calculations. Mr. Smallwood responded
Planning Commission
June 1, 2023
Page 4

that it's a mix - some cities use gross, some use net. Mr. Pehrson concluded that if other cities
are using gross square footage, then their requirements would tend to be closer to 1 per 200 sq
ft rather than 1 per 250 sq ft. Mr. Smallwood confirmed it's reasonable to assume other cities
calculating based on gross square footage would end up with parking requirements closer to 1
per 200 sq ft once you account for that 15-20% difference between gross and net. Mr. Pehrson
reiterated that the choice of using gross vs. net square footage makes a big difference in the
required number of parking stalls, as illustrated in their example salon. Mr. Smallwood agreed
there was a significant difference of 3 parking spaces between net and gross calculations for
their sample salon - about a 20% increase going from net to gross. Mr. Pehrson asked whether
the parking space numbers Mr. Smallwood compiled from other cities were specifically
requirements for professional service and office uses, or if any were designated specifically for
salons. Mr. Smallwood said no other city had special parking standards for salons except South
Jordan. For the other cities, he used whichever was greater between their retail and office
parking requirements.
The applicant, Mr. Griffin, provided some background information to explain their executive suite
business model renting individual spaces to independent stylists, doctors, coaches, etc. He said
they are never 100% occupied since operators set their own hours. He supported simplifying to
professional office standards since the uses are similar, but based on gross square footage. Mr.
Richards asked about the parking math for their building. Mr. Griffin said the gross square
footage should equate to 40 spaces at 1/200 sq ft which they have currently. Ms. Milkavich tried
to clarify that if they have 120 sq ft suites, an operator and client would need 2 parking spots, so
she still didn't understand the argument for reducing to 1/250 sq ft. Mr. Griffin explained it's
never fully occupied like law firms and they merely rent space. Even busy salons have downtime
now and then. The uses are essentially professional services. Ms. Milkavich said she agreed
that 3 stalls per chair was excessive but are just determining what's reasonably not under-
parked. She asked what the prior use of their building was. Mr. Griffin said the mortgage office
suites had similar parking as their current stylist suites at 4/1000 sq ft. Their focus is providing
adequate parking for their tenants. Ms. Milkavich reiterated they don't oppose change but want
to find the right balance. Mr. Griffin said the industry trend is toward 1/200 or 1/250 sq ft for
professional services. He suggested reverting to that if they remove the salon-specific code so
it's the same as other offices. Mr. Nay said he viewed it as simply getting to an average
occupancy number. Mr. Griffin confirmed they average around 40% occupied. Mr. Pehrson said
his concern is setting a global standard not just based on their unique model, since it would also
apply to denser salon layouts. Mr. Griffin acknowledged that's tricky but said they'd self-regulate
to not abuse parking allotments since it hurts their business if insufficient for clients. The
developers establishing standards already studied appropriate ratios for these mixed uses. Mr.
Griffin agreed and said if they replaced all the salons with lawyers, it would be the same office
use, density, and parking needs. That's why reverting to a professional services standard
seemed reasonable. Mr. Nay added the proposal aligns with averages for cities across the
county.
Mr. Griffin reiterated in final comments that since most salons locate in retail zones with higher
parking requirements anyway, 1/200 sq ft would provide enough parking for their building and be
comparable to retail rather than office ratios. Mr. Richards suggested keeping the 3/chair
standard but modifying it to 1/200 sq ft. He also supported keeping the separate professional
services standard of 1/250 sq ft. Ms. Milkavich said that approach would be okay, but asked for
Planning Commission
June 1, 2023
Page 5

clarification on the math. Mr. Richards clarified he preferred simplifying the barber/salon
standard to 1 per 250 sq ft rather than the 4 per 1000 sq ft. Ms. Milkavich pointed out the wiggle
room with calculations using the 4 per 1000 standard. Mr. Smallwood asked for an example of
how that could be manipulated or miscalculated. Commissioner Jake Pearson shared a
hypothetical scenario from another city's codes where a slightly smaller building size, like 1001
sq ft, would change the parking requirements significantly because of the rounding thresholds in
the 4 per 1000 math. Mr. Smallwood said their code rounds down fractional requirements and
offered to demonstrate how that avoids the issue raised. Mr. Richards stated the 1 per 250 sq ft
calculation is clearer and simpler. Ms. Milkavich agreed and asked Mr. Smallwood to restate the
recommendation for consistency. Mr. Smallwood recommended adding "per 200 sq ft of net
usable area" to the standards for consistency with their typical code language. The
commissioners agreed this provides clarity. Mr. Pehrson felt it was a good compromise providing
sufficient parking and flexibility for applicants. Mr. Smallwood said it still accomplishes
streamlining the requirements even if not combined into one standard.
Mr. Hacker made a motion that the planning commission forward a recommendation of approval
to the city council for the proposed text amendment to section 17.72.070 with the following
changes, being to keep the Beauty and Barber Shop use, change the required parking spaces
from three spaces per chair to one space per 200 square feet of net usable, and to maintain the
current language for business offices or professional offices and change the parking space
requirements from four spaces per 1,000 to one space for 250 square feet of net usable.
Seconded by Mr. Richards
_A_    Hacker
_A_    Richards
_A_    Milkavich
_A_    Pehrson

Motion passes 4-0


ANNOUNCEMENTS AND QUESTIONS

The next scheduled meeting will be held on Thursday, June 15, 2023, at 6:30 p.m. in the new
Murray City Council Chambers, 10 East 4800 South, Murray, Utah.

Mr. Smallwood said there is ULI training on June 23rd from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Hunt Electric
Building. This will fulfill the planning commissioner training requirement. Commissioners can
reach out to Ms. Nixon to get registered.
Planning Commission
June 1, 2023
Page 6


ADJOURNMENT

Ms. Milkavich moved to adjourn tonight’s meeting at 7:38 p.m. Seconded by Mr. Hacker. A voice
vote was made, motion passed 4-0.




_______________________________________
Philip J. Markham, Director
Community & Economic Development Department
           MURRAY CITY CORPORATION
           COMMUNITY & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT                                          Planning Division   801-270-2420




                                   AGENDA ITEM #05
                             Parking Standard Amendment
ITEM TYPE:          Text Amendment

ADDRESS:            Citywide                              MEETING DATE:           June 1, 2023
                                                                                  Zachary Smallwood,
APPLICANT:          Graig Griffin; LIV Salons             STAFF:
                                                                                  Senior Planner
PARCEL ID:          N/A                                   PROJECT NUMBER: 23-051
AFFECTED
                    17.72.070
CHAPTERS:

                    The applicant is requesting an amendment to parking spaces required for
REQUEST:
                    Beauty and Barber Shops.



 I.    STAFF REVIEW & ANALYSIS
       Background
       The applicant is affiliated with LIV Salons located at 1966 East 6200 South. Beauty and Barber
       Services (LU# 6230) is a permitted use in the C-N, Commercial Neighborhood District. LIV
       Salons operates under a room rental business model. This means that each “booth renter” is
       required to obtain their own business license and be responsible for their own booths. This
       helps to eliminate additional overhead costs for small business owners that operate as
       cosmetology businesses. Because of the current parking requirements, the applicant has been
       limited on the number “booth renters” they are able to lease to. The applicant has stated that
       if the parking requirements are changed they would be able to increase their number of booth
       renters and more easily operate as a successful business.

       The applicant has petitioned to modify the parking standards for beauty and barber salons.
       Their proposed text change is evaluated in the following sections of this report and attached
       as an attachment for the Planning Commission’s review.

       Code Comparison

       Planning staff reviewed parking standards across multiple municipalities. The table of findings
       is provided below.




              Murray City Public Works Building   4646 South 500 West   Murray, Utah 84123
                                               PARKING STANDARDS
                 Midvale                       1 space per 200 sq. feet
                 Taylorsville                  1 space per 200 sq. feet
                 South Salt Lake               1 space per 250 sq. feet
                 Holladay                      1 space per 200 sq. feet
                 Millcreek                     1 space per 300 sq. feet
                 Sandy                         1 space per 200 sq. feet
                 West Jordan                   1 space per 200 sq. feet
                 West Valley                   1 space per 250 sq. feet
                 Vineyard                      1 space per 150 sq. feet
                 Draper                        1 space per 200 sq. feet
                 Farmington                    1 space per 250 sq. feet
                 Salt Lake City                1 space per 500 sq. feet
                 South Jordan City             3 spaces per chair
                 Cottonwood Heights            1 space per 250 sq. feet
                 Herriman                      1 space per 200 sq. feet
                 Bluffdale                     1 space per 200 sq. feet
                 Park City                     1 space per 250 sq. feet
                 Roy                           1 space per 350 sq. feet

Of the cities surveyed the parking ratio averages one (1) space per 244 square feet. One (1)
space per two hundred (200) square feet is the most common ratio though one city uses one
space per one hundred-fifty (150) square feet. Only one city surveyed used the number of
workstations to determine parking requirements.

Institute of Transportation Engineers

Planning Division staff looked through both the 4th and 5th Generations of the Institute of
Traffic Engineer’s (ITE) “Parking Generation Manual” and found that there is not a specific
standard listed for beauty and barber shops. There are many types of uses that are called out
with specific standards but not salon type uses. Because this specific use is not called out,
staff assumes that it is considered in other retail and office uses generally.

Proposed Amendments

The applicant has provided the following text change for consideration to be placed in Section
17.156.090 of the Land Use Ordinance:

       For all businesses that rent space to other businesses using a “suite”
       or “studio” model the following parking ratios shall apply:

       For businesses whose primary suite or studio tenants engage in retail




                                                                                                2
              sales or personal services as typically found in a salon (hair, nails, lash,
              etc.) the parking ratio shall be one parking space per every 200 square
              feet of total space.

              For businesses whose primary suite or studio tenants engage in
              professional services (without retail or salon uses), medical, or general
              office activities, the parking ration shall be one space per every 250
              square feet of total space.

      Planning staff does not oppose the requested change, but feels that it is overly complicated.
      Staff recommends that a simpler solution may be achieved by removing the specific parking
      standard for beauty and barber salons located in Section 17.72.070: parking spaces required.
      In the figure below, staff recommends removing the beauty and barber shop standard and
      modifying the “Business offices or professional offices (excluding medical and dental offices)”
      to fully encompass Office and Professional Service uses.




      Figure 1: Staff's Proposed Changes


      Modifying these two parts of the Land Use Ordinance achieves the same result that the
      applicant is requesting while keeping the parking requirements more streamlined. Based on
      the review of parking requirements in the surrounding cities and a lack of professionally
      recorded data, Staff is confident that the request to eliminate the specific parking standard for
      beauty and barber services would not negatively impact surrounding businesses or
      neighborhoods.

II.   PUBLIC INPUT




                                                                                                     3
       Notices were sent to Affected Entities for this text amendment. As of the date of this report, no
       public comments have been made.

III.   FINDINGS
       Based on the analysis of the proposed text amendment planning staff concludes the
       following:

       1.      The proposed text amendment, as amended by staff, has been carefully considered
               and will align with existing parking standards both in and out of the city.
        2.     The proposed text amendment is consistent with the purpose of the Murray City Land
               Use Ordinance Code for promoting the health, safety, and general welfare of its
               citizens.
        3.     The proposed text amendment is not contrary to the 2017 General Plan.


IV.    CONCLUSION/RECOMMENDATION
       Planning Division staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a
       recommendation of APPROVAL to the City Council for the proposed text amendment to
       Section 17.72.070 as reviewed in the Staff Report.




                                                                                                      4
          MURRAY CITY CORPORATION
          COMMUNITY & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT                                                     Planning Division   801-270-2430




                                     NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
                                           June 1, 2023, 6:30 PM


The Murray City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing in the Murray City Municipal Council
Chambers, located at 5025 S. State Street to receive public comment on the following application:


A request to amend Murray City Code Section 17.72.070, to modify the number of parking spaces
required for beauty and barber shops.


The meeting is open, and the public is welcome to attend in person or you may submit comments via
email at planningcommission@murray.utah.gov. If you would like to view the meeting online, you may
watch via livestream at www.murraycitylive.com or www.facebook.com/MurrayCityUtah/.

Comments are limited to 3 minutes or less, written comments will be read into the meeting record.


If you have questions or comments concerning this proposal, please contact the Murray City Planning
Division at 801-270-2430, or e-mail planning@murray.utah.gov.




                                        Public Notice Dated | May 18, 2022

                  Murray City Public Works Building | 4646 South 500 West | Murray | Utah | 84123
                                      CURRENT PARKING STANDARDS



17.72.070: PARKING SPACES REQUIRED:

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the number of off street parking spaces for various uses
will be as follows:

 Use                                                   Required Parking Spaces
 Automobile service and repair center                  3 exterior parking spaces for each stall, service
                                                       bay or workstation. All vehicles using this off
                                                       street parking must comply with state of Utah
                                                       motor vehicle registration requirements, i.e.,
                                                       current state license plates and a valid safety
                                                       inspection sticker.
 Beauty and barber shops                               3 spaces for each chair
 Bowling Alleys                                        4 spaces for each alley.
 Business offices or professional offices (excluding   4 parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of net
 medical and dental offices)                           floor area.
 Car wash                                              3 spaces in approach lane to each wash bay.
 Churches                                              1 parking space for each 31/2 seats, 1 parking
                                                       space for each 7 feet of linear pew, or 1 space for
                                                       every 25 square feet of floor space area where
                                                       temporary seating can be located.
 Dance halls and assembly halls without fixed          3 spaces for each 100 square feet of floor area
 seats                                                 used by assembly or dancing.
 Daycare center                                        1 space for each staff member and 1 space for
                                                       each 5 students.
 Disable parking/site accessibility
          A. Disabled parking spaces shall be
          located on the shortest possible access
          route of travel to an accessible building
          entry. In facilities with multiple
          accessible building entries with adjacent
          parking, disabled parking spaces shall be
          dispersed and located near the
          accessible entries. Wherever practical,
          the accessible route of travel shall not
          cross lanes of vehicular traffic. Where
          crossing traffic lanes is necessary, the
          route of travel shall be designated and
          marked as a crosswalk.
          B. When more than 1 building or
          facility is located on a site, accessible
          routes of travel shall be provided
          between buildings and disabled
          accessible site facilities. The accessible
          route of travel shall be the most
          practical direct route between building
          entries, site facilities and entry of the
          site.
C. Disabled parking spaces shall not be
less than 8 feet in width and shall have
an access aisle not less than 5 feet in
width. Where 2 adjacent spaces are
provided, the access aisle may be shared
between the 2 spaces. Boundaries of
access aisles shall be marked so that the
aisles will not be used as parking space.
D. Van accessible parking spaces shall
have an adjacent access aisle not less
than 8 feet in width. 1 in every 8
disabled parking spaces, but in no case
less than 1, shall comply with the van
parking space requirements.
E. Vertical clearance and slope for
disabled parking stalls shall meet
international building code regulations.
Surfaces of parking spaces and access
aisles shall be firm, stable, smooth and
slip resistant.
F. Every disabled parking space shall be
identified by a sign at the head of the
parking space. The sign shall include the
international symbol of accessibility.
Such signs shall be 60 inches minimum
above the floor or ground surface of the
parking space, measured to the bottom
of the sign.
G. Where provided, passenger drop off
and loading zones shall be located on an
accessible route of travel. All drop off
and loading zone spaces must comply
with international building code
dimensions, slope and vertical
clearance.
H. The minimum number of assigned
parking spaces for the disabled shall be
provided as listed in the following table:
  ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES

   Minimum Required
 Total Parking Spaces Number Of
 In Lot Or Garage Accessible Spaces

 1 – 25 1
 26 – 50 2 51 – 75 3
 76 – 100 4
            101 – 150 5
            151 – 200 6
            201 – 300 7
            301 – 400 8
            401 – 500 9
            501 – 1,000 2% of total
            More than 1,000 20 plus 1 for each
             100 over 1,000

Dwellings, multiple-family                           2 1/2 spaces for each dwelling unit. 2 parking
                                                     spaces shall be designated parking stalls for each
                                                     dwelling unit. The additional 1/2 parking space
                                                     requirement shall be combined for all units and
                                                     used for visitor parking. Visitor parking shall be
                                                     clearly marked.
                                                     At least 1 of the parking spaces required above
                                                     shall be a designated covered parking stall for
                                                     each dwelling unit.
         The planning commission may require
         more off street parking to accommodate
         parking for recreational vehicles. This
         additional requirement must be based
         upon, but not limited to, the following
         criteria:
         A. Size of development;
         B. Size of individual units;
         C. Number of individual units;
         D. Market value of individual units;
         E. Occupancy mix of individual units.
Fast food restaurants, taverns, clubs, lodges,       1 parking space for each 2 seats or 1 parking
fraternal organizations and all other similar        space for each 100 square feet of floor area when
dining and/or drinking establishments                the number of seats is unknown.
Funeral homes, mortuaries                            1 parking space for each 40 square feet of floor
                                                     area located in the assembly chapel and viewing
                                                     room(s).
Furniture and appliance store or other similar       1 parking space for each 400 square feet of net
uses which require large display area but            floor area.
generate light traffic demands
General business/retail not specifically described   1 parking space for each 200 square feet of net
(retail stores, except as otherwise specified)       floor area.
Hospitals                                            2 parking spaces for each bed plus parking spaces
                                                     for all accessory uses as herein defined.
Hotels, motels, motor hotels, bed and breakfast      1 parking space for each living or sleeping unit,
                                                     plus parking space for all accessory uses as herein
                                                     defined.
Libraries                                            1 parking space for each 250 square feet of net
                                                     floor area.
Manufacturing/industrial uses, research and      4 parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of net
testing laboratories, bottling plants            office space plus 1 parking space for each 750
                                                 square feet of net floor area, or 1 space for each
                                                 person employed on the highest employment
                                                 shift, whichever is greater.
Medical/dental clinics                           1 parking space for each 200 square feet of net
                                                 floor area.
Nursing, convalescent and other similar type     1 parking space for every 5 persons the home is
homes                                            licensed or designed to care for, plus 1 additional
                                                 space for each car used by the operators in
                                                 conducting the home, plus 1 space for every 2
                                                 employees working on the highest employment
                                                 shift.
Restaurants                                      1 space for each 3 seats.
Retirement facility                              Off street parking shall be provided at the rate of
                                                 0.60 parking stalls per living unit. Common use
                                                 facility areas will not be used in calculating
                                                 parking. At least half of the off street parking
                                                 stalls must be covered.
Room and boarding homes                          1 parking space for each tenant.
Schools                                          1 parking space for each employee, 1 space for
                                                 each 2 classrooms (elementary schools), 1 space
                                                 for each 3 students of driving age, and 1 space for
                                                 each 10 seats for school auditoriums, arenas or
                                                 stadiums (nonelementary schools).
Shopping centers:
         Greater than 100,000 square feet but    As determined by conditional use permit or
         less than 700,000 square feet           planned unit development procedure, if
                                                 applicable, or by the planning commission, but
                                                 not less than 5 spaces per 1,000 square feet net
                                                 floor area.
          700,000 square feet or greater         Not less than 41/2 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                                 net floor area.
Shopping centers, regional                       5 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet of net
                                                 floor area or as determined by the planning
                                                 commission.
Single-family residential                        2 parking spaces for each single-family dwelling
                                                 unit.
Sports arenas, auditoriums, theaters and other   1 parking space for each 4 seats of maximum
similar places of public assembly                seating capacity.
Wholesale establishments and warehouses          4 parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of net
                                                 office space plus 1 parking space for each 750
                                                 square feet of net floor area, or 1 space for each
                                                 person employed on the highest employment
                                                 shift, whichever is highest.
All other uses not listed above                  As determined by the planning commission based
                                                 on the nearest comparable use standards.
                             PROPOSED PARKING STANDARDS (REDLINE)


17.72.070: PARKING SPACES REQUIRED:

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the number of off street parking spaces for various uses
will be as follows:

 Use                                                   Required Parking Spaces
 Automobile service and repair center                  3 exterior parking spaces for each stall, service
                                                       bay or workstation. All vehicles using this off
                                                       street parking must comply with state of Utah
                                                       motor vehicle registration requirements, i.e.,
                                                       current state license plates and a valid safety
                                                       inspection sticker.
 Beauty and barber shops                               3 spaces for each chair
 Bowling Alleys                                        4 spaces for each alley.
 Business oOffices and/or professional                 4 parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of net
 serviceoffices uses (excluding medical and dental     floor area.
 offices)
 Car wash                                              3 spaces in approach lane to each wash bay.
 Churches                                              1 parking space for each 31/2 seats, 1 parking
                                                       space for each 7 feet of linear pew, or 1 space for
                                                       every 25 square feet of floor space area where
                                                       temporary seating can be located.
 Dance halls and assembly halls without fixed          3 spaces for each 100 square feet of floor area
 seats                                                 used by assembly or dancing.
 Daycare center                                        1 space for each staff member and 1 space for
                                                       each 5 students.
 Disable parking/site accessibility
          A. Disabled parking spaces shall be
          located on the shortest possible access
          route of travel to an accessible building
          entry. In facilities with multiple
          accessible building entries with adjacent
          parking, disabled parking spaces shall be
          dispersed and located near the
          accessible entries. Wherever practical,
          the accessible route of travel shall not
          cross lanes of vehicular traffic. Where
          crossing traffic lanes is necessary, the
          route of travel shall be designated and
          marked as a crosswalk.
          B. When more than 1 building or
          facility is located on a site, accessible
          routes of travel shall be provided
          between buildings and disabled
          accessible site facilities. The accessible
          route of travel shall be the most
          practical direct route between building
entries, site facilities and entry of the
site.
C. Disabled parking spaces shall not be
less than 8 feet in width and shall have
an access aisle not less than 5 feet in
width. Where 2 adjacent spaces are
provided, the access aisle may be shared
between the 2 spaces. Boundaries of
access aisles shall be marked so that the
aisles will not be used as parking space.
D. Van accessible parking spaces shall
have an adjacent access aisle not less
than 8 feet in width. 1 in every 8
disabled parking spaces, but in no case
less than 1, shall comply with the van
parking space requirements.
E. Vertical clearance and slope for
disabled parking stalls shall meet
international building code regulations.
Surfaces of parking spaces and access
aisles shall be firm, stable, smooth and
slip resistant.
F. Every disabled parking space shall be
identified by a sign at the head of the
parking space. The sign shall include the
international symbol of accessibility.
Such signs shall be 60 inches minimum
above the floor or ground surface of the
parking space, measured to the bottom
of the sign.
G. Where provided, passenger drop off
and loading zones shall be located on an
accessible route of travel. All drop off
and loading zone spaces must comply
with international building code
dimensions, slope and vertical
clearance.
H. The minimum number of assigned
parking spaces for the disabled shall be
provided as listed in the following table:
  ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES

   Minimum Required
 Total Parking Spaces Number Of
 In Lot Or Garage Accessible Spaces

 1 – 25 1
          26 – 50 2 51 – 75 3
          76 – 100 4
          101 – 150 5
          151 – 200 6
          201 – 300 7
          301 – 400 8
          401 – 500 9
          501 – 1,000 2% of total
          More than 1,000 20 plus 1 for each
           100 over 1,000

Dwellings, multiple-family                           2 1/2 spaces for each dwelling unit. 2 parking
                                                     spaces shall be designated parking stalls for each
                                                     dwelling unit. The additional 1/2 parking space
                                                     requirement shall be combined for all units and
                                                     used for visitor parking. Visitor parking shall be
                                                     clearly marked.
                                                     At least 1 of the parking spaces required above
                                                     shall be a designated covered parking stall for
                                                     each dwelling unit.
         The planning commission may require
         more off street parking to accommodate
         parking for recreational vehicles. This
         additional requirement must be based
         upon, but not limited to, the following
         criteria:
         A. Size of development;
         B. Size of individual units;
         C. Number of individual units;
         D. Market value of individual units;
         E. Occupancy mix of individual units.
Fast food restaurants, taverns, clubs, lodges,       1 parking space for each 2 seats or 1 parking
fraternal organizations and all other similar        space for each 100 square feet of floor area when
dining and/or drinking establishments                the number of seats is unknown.
Funeral homes, mortuaries                            1 parking space for each 40 square feet of floor
                                                     area located in the assembly chapel and viewing
                                                     room(s).
Furniture and appliance store or other similar       1 parking space for each 400 square feet of net
uses which require large display area but            floor area.
generate light traffic demands
General business/retail not specifically described   1 parking space for each 200 square feet of net
(retail stores, except as otherwise specified)       floor area.
Hospitals                                            2 parking spaces for each bed plus parking spaces
                                                     for all accessory uses as herein defined.
Hotels, motels, motor hotels, bed and breakfast      1 parking space for each living or sleeping unit,
                                                     plus parking space for all accessory uses as herein
                                                     defined.
Libraries                                        1 parking space for each 250 square feet of net
                                                 floor area.
Manufacturing/industrial uses, research and      4 parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of net
testing laboratories, bottling plants            office space plus 1 parking space for each 750
                                                 square feet of net floor area, or 1 space for each
                                                 person employed on the highest employment
                                                 shift, whichever is greater.
Medical/dental clinics                           1 parking space for each 200 square feet of net
                                                 floor area.
Nursing, convalescent and other similar type     1 parking space for every 5 persons the home is
homes                                            licensed or designed to care for, plus 1 additional
                                                 space for each car used by the operators in
                                                 conducting the home, plus 1 space for every 2
                                                 employees working on the highest employment
                                                 shift.
Restaurants                                      1 space for each 3 seats.
Retirement facility                              Off street parking shall be provided at the rate of
                                                 0.60 parking stalls per living unit. Common use
                                                 facility areas will not be used in calculating
                                                 parking. At least half of the off street parking
                                                 stalls must be covered.
Room and boarding homes                          1 parking space for each tenant.
Schools                                          1 parking space for each employee, 1 space for
                                                 each 2 classrooms (elementary schools), 1 space
                                                 for each 3 students of driving age, and 1 space for
                                                 each 10 seats for school auditoriums, arenas or
                                                 stadiums (nonelementary schools).
Shopping centers:
         Greater than 100,000 square feet but    As determined by conditional use permit or
         less than 700,000 square feet           planned unit development procedure, if
                                                 applicable, or by the planning commission, but
                                                 not less than 5 spaces per 1,000 square feet net
                                                 floor area.
            700,000 square feet or greater       Not less than 41/2 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                                 net floor area.
Shopping centers, regional                       5 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet of net
                                                 floor area or as determined by the planning
                                                 commission.
Single-family residential                        2 parking spaces for each single-family dwelling
                                                 unit.
Sports arenas, auditoriums, theaters and other   1 parking space for each 4 seats of maximum
similar places of public assembly                seating capacity.
Wholesale establishments and warehouses          4 parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of net
                                                 office space plus 1 parking space for each 750
                                                 square feet of net floor area, or 1 space for each
                                                 person employed on the highest employment
                                                 shift, whichever is highest.
All other uses not listed above   As determined by the planning commission based
                                  on the nearest comparable use standards.
                                PROPOSED PARKING STANDARDS (CLEAN)


17.72.070: PARKING SPACES REQUIRED:

Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the number of off street parking spaces for various uses
will be as follows:

 Use                                                   Required Parking Spaces
 Automobile service and repair center                  3 exterior parking spaces for each stall, service
                                                       bay or workstation. All vehicles using this off
                                                       street parking must comply with state of Utah
                                                       motor vehicle registration requirements, i.e.,
                                                       current state license plates and a valid safety
                                                       inspection sticker.
 Bowling Alleys                                        4 spaces for each alley.
 Offices and/or professional service uses              4 parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of net
 (excluding medical and dental)                        floor area.
 Car wash                                              3 spaces in approach lane to each wash bay.
 Churches                                              1 parking space for each 31/2 seats, 1 parking
                                                       space for each 7 feet of linear pew, or 1 space for
                                                       every 25 square feet of floor space area where
                                                       temporary seating can be located.
 Dance halls and assembly halls without fixed          3 spaces for each 100 square feet of floor area
 seats                                                 used by assembly or dancing.
 Daycare center                                        1 space for each staff member and 1 space for
                                                       each 5 students.
 Disable parking/site accessibility
          A. Disabled parking spaces shall be
          located on the shortest possible access
          route of travel to an accessible building
          entry. In facilities with multiple
          accessible building entries with adjacent
          parking, disabled parking spaces shall be
          dispersed and located near the
          accessible entries. Wherever practical,
          the accessible route of travel shall not
          cross lanes of vehicular traffic. Where
          crossing traffic lanes is necessary, the
          route of travel shall be designated and
          marked as a crosswalk.
          B. When more than 1 building or
          facility is located on a site, accessible
          routes of travel shall be provided
          between buildings and disabled
          accessible site facilities. The accessible
          route of travel shall be the most
          practical direct route between building
          entries, site facilities and entry of the
          site.
C. Disabled parking spaces shall not be
less than 8 feet in width and shall have
an access aisle not less than 5 feet in
width. Where 2 adjacent spaces are
provided, the access aisle may be shared
between the 2 spaces. Boundaries of
access aisles shall be marked so that the
aisles will not be used as parking space.
D. Van accessible parking spaces shall
have an adjacent access aisle not less
than 8 feet in width. 1 in every 8
disabled parking spaces, but in no case
less than 1, shall comply with the van
parking space requirements.
E. Vertical clearance and slope for
disabled parking stalls shall meet
international building code regulations.
Surfaces of parking spaces and access
aisles shall be firm, stable, smooth and
slip resistant.
F. Every disabled parking space shall be
identified by a sign at the head of the
parking space. The sign shall include the
international symbol of accessibility.
Such signs shall be 60 inches minimum
above the floor or ground surface of the
parking space, measured to the bottom
of the sign.
G. Where provided, passenger drop off
and loading zones shall be located on an
accessible route of travel. All drop off
and loading zone spaces must comply
with international building code
dimensions, slope and vertical
clearance.
H. The minimum number of assigned
parking spaces for the disabled shall be
provided as listed in the following table:
  ACCESSIBLE PARKING SPACES

   Minimum Required
 Total Parking Spaces Number Of
 In Lot Or Garage Accessible Spaces

 1 – 25 1
 26 – 50 2 51 – 75 3
 76 – 100 4
            101 – 150 5
            151 – 200 6
            201 – 300 7
            301 – 400 8
            401 – 500 9
            501 – 1,000 2% of total
            More than 1,000 20 plus 1 for each
             100 over 1,000

Dwellings, multiple-family                           2 1/2 spaces for each dwelling unit. 2 parking
                                                     spaces shall be designated parking stalls for each
                                                     dwelling unit. The additional 1/2 parking space
                                                     requirement shall be combined for all units and
                                                     used for visitor parking. Visitor parking shall be
                                                     clearly marked.
                                                     At least 1 of the parking spaces required above
                                                     shall be a designated covered parking stall for
                                                     each dwelling unit.
         The planning commission may require
         more off street parking to accommodate
         parking for recreational vehicles. This
         additional requirement must be based
         upon, but not limited to, the following
         criteria:
         A. Size of development;
         B. Size of individual units;
         C. Number of individual units;
         D. Market value of individual units;
         E. Occupancy mix of individual units.
Fast food restaurants, taverns, clubs, lodges,       1 parking space for each 2 seats or 1 parking
fraternal organizations and all other similar        space for each 100 square feet of floor area when
dining and/or drinking establishments                the number of seats is unknown.
Funeral homes, mortuaries                            1 parking space for each 40 square feet of floor
                                                     area located in the assembly chapel and viewing
                                                     room(s).
Furniture and appliance store or other similar       1 parking space for each 400 square feet of net
uses which require large display area but            floor area.
generate light traffic demands
General business/retail not specifically described   1 parking space for each 200 square feet of net
(retail stores, except as otherwise specified)       floor area.
Hospitals                                            2 parking spaces for each bed plus parking spaces
                                                     for all accessory uses as herein defined.
Hotels, motels, motor hotels, bed and breakfast      1 parking space for each living or sleeping unit,
                                                     plus parking space for all accessory uses as herein
                                                     defined.
Libraries                                            1 parking space for each 250 square feet of net
                                                     floor area.
Manufacturing/industrial uses, research and      4 parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of net
testing laboratories, bottling plants            office space plus 1 parking space for each 750
                                                 square feet of net floor area, or 1 space for each
                                                 person employed on the highest employment
                                                 shift, whichever is greater.
Medical/dental clinics                           1 parking space for each 200 square feet of net
                                                 floor area.
Nursing, convalescent and other similar type     1 parking space for every 5 persons the home is
homes                                            licensed or designed to care for, plus 1 additional
                                                 space for each car used by the operators in
                                                 conducting the home, plus 1 space for every 2
                                                 employees working on the highest employment
                                                 shift.
Restaurants                                      1 space for each 3 seats.
Retirement facility                              Off street parking shall be provided at the rate of
                                                 0.60 parking stalls per living unit. Common use
                                                 facility areas will not be used in calculating
                                                 parking. At least half of the off street parking
                                                 stalls must be covered.
Room and boarding homes                          1 parking space for each tenant.
Schools                                          1 parking space for each employee, 1 space for
                                                 each 2 classrooms (elementary schools), 1 space
                                                 for each 3 students of driving age, and 1 space for
                                                 each 10 seats for school auditoriums, arenas or
                                                 stadiums (nonelementary schools).
Shopping centers:
         Greater than 100,000 square feet but    As determined by conditional use permit or
         less than 700,000 square feet           planned unit development procedure, if
                                                 applicable, or by the planning commission, but
                                                 not less than 5 spaces per 1,000 square feet net
                                                 floor area.
          700,000 square feet or greater         Not less than 41/2 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                                 net floor area.
Shopping centers, regional                       5 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet of net
                                                 floor area or as determined by the planning
                                                 commission.
Single-family residential                        2 parking spaces for each single-family dwelling
                                                 unit.
Sports arenas, auditoriums, theaters and other   1 parking space for each 4 seats of maximum
similar places of public assembly                seating capacity.
Wholesale establishments and warehouses          4 parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of net
                                                 office space plus 1 parking space for each 750
                                                 square feet of net floor area, or 1 space for each
                                                 person employed on the highest employment
                                                 shift, whichever is highest.
All other uses not listed above                  As determined by the planning commission based
                                                 on the nearest comparable use standards.
Discussion
 Item #5
Adjournment
