Council Meeting
 April 18, 2023
                        Murray City Municipal Council
                             Notice of Meeting
                                        April 18, 2023
                                      Murray City Center
                          5025 South State Street, Murray, Utah 84107


Meeting Agenda

4:30 p.m.      Committee of the Whole – Conference Room #107
               Garry Hrechkosy conducting

Approval of Minutes - Committee of the Whole – March 21, 2023

Discussion Items
    1. Presentation from the Murray Chamber of Commerce. Loran Pasalich presenting. (15
       minutes)
    2. 2023 Legislative Summary. G.L. Critchfield, Dave Stewart and Kory Holdaway presenting.
       (30 minutes)
    3. Discussion on grass removal rebate program. Pam Cotter presenting. (15 minutes)

Adjournment

Break for Redevelopment Agency Meeting (Separate Agenda)

The public may view the Council Meeting via the live stream at www.murraycitylive.com or
https://www.facebook.com/Murraycityutah/. Those wishing to have their comments read into the record
may send an email by 5:00 p.m. the day prior to the meeting date to city.council@murray.utah.gov.
Comments are limited to less than three minutes (approximately 300 words for emails) and must include
your name and address.

6:30 p.m.      Council Meeting – Council Chambers
               Garry Hrechkosy conducting.
Opening Ceremonies
   Call to Order
   Pledge of Allegiance

Approval of Minutes
   Council Meeting – March 21, 2023.

Special Recognition
   1. Murray City Employee of the Month, Bruce Holyoak, Parks Superintendent. Garry
       Hrechkosy and Kim Sorensen presenting.

Special Presentations
   1. Fiscal Year 2023-2024 Budget Address. Brenda Moore presenting.
   2. Consider a resolution acknowledging receipt of the Fiscal Year 2023-2024 tentative
       budget from the Mayor and the Budget Officer and referring the Mayor’s tentative
       budget for review and consideration to the Budget and Finance Committee of the
       Murray City Municipal Council. Brenda Moore presenting.
Murray City Council Agenda
April 18, 2023                                                                                                                 2




Citizen Comments
    Comments will be limited to three minutes, step to the microphone, state your name and city
    of residence, and fill out the required form.

Consent Agenda
   None Scheduled.

Public Hearings
   None Scheduled.

Business Items
   1. Consider an ordinance repealing paragraph (B) of sections 7.04.020, 13.48.060 and
       amending section 15.20.260 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to operational
       transfers of the Solid Waste and Recycling Fund, the Stormwater Fund, and the Power
       Fund. Brenda Moore presenting.
   2. Consider a resolution approving an interlocal cooperation agreement between the City
       and Granite School District relating to music education and instruction. Jennifer Kennedy
       presenting.

Mayor’s Report and Questions

Adjournment
NOTICE

Supporting materials are available for inspection on the Murray City website at www.murray.utah.gov.

Special accommodations for the hearing or visually impaired will be made upon a request to the office of the Murray City Recorder
(801-264-2663). We would appreciate notification two working days prior to the meeting. TTY is Relay Utah at #711.

Council Members may participate in the meeting via telephonic communication. If a Council Member does participate via
telephonic communication, the Council Member will be on speaker phone. The speaker phone will be amplified so that the other
Council Members and all other persons present in the Council Chambers will be able to hear all discussions.

On Friday, April 14, 2023, at 9:00 a.m., a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of the
Murray City Center, Murray, Utah. Copies of this notice were provided for the news media in the Office of the City Recorder. A
copy of this notice was posted on Murray City’s internet website www.murray.utah.gov. and the state noticing website at
http://pmn.utah.gov .




                                                                     Jennifer Kennedy
                                                                     Council Executive Director
                                                                     Murray City Municipal Council
 Committee
of the Whole
 Committee
of the Whole
   Minutes
                                    MURRAY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                     COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
                                            Meeting Minutes
                                        Tuesday, March 21, 2023
           Murray City Center - 5025 South State Street, Conference Room, Murray, Utah 84107
Attendance:
  Council Members and others:
  Phil Markham – Vice Chair   District #1
  Diane Turner                District #4
  Pam Cotter                  District #2
  Rosalba Dominguez           District #3 - Excused
  Garry Hrechkosy – Chair     District #5

  Brett Hales         Mayor                           Pattie Johnson     Council Administration
  Crystal Brown      Council Administration           Greg Bellon        Power Department
  Doug Hill          Chief Administrative Officer     Tammy Kikuchi      Chief Communications Officer
  Matt Youngs        Power Department                 Joey Mittelman     Fire Chief
  G.L. Critchfield    City Attorney                   Craig Burnett      Police Chief
  Brenda Moore        Finance Director                Bruce Turner       Power Department
  Rob White          IT Director                      Jared Hall         CED Director
  Kim Sorensen        Parks and Recreation Director   Brooke Smith       City Recorder
  Ben Gray            IT                              Caren Lopez       FFinance Department

Conducting: Council Member Hrechkosy called the meeting to order at 4:15 pm.

Approval of Minutes: City Council Initiatives Workshop – February 15, 2023
                     Committee of the Whole – February 21, 2023
 Council Member Markham moved to approve both sets of minutes, and Council Member Cotter
 seconded the motion. All in favor 4-0.

Discussion Items:
  • An ordinance amending the City's Fiscal Year 2022-2023 budget. – Ms. Moore gave a complete
      review about all items that were included in the requested budget opening. Transactions involved
      funding various capital improvement projects, the Capital Projects Fund, receiving Tourism
      Recreation Culture and Convention Funding and other grant funding, as well as various allocations
      to and from the GF (General Fund). In addition, the proposed ordinance included language allowing
      Ms. Moore to make all the necessary transfers and ensure that transfers could be made to keep
      reserves at 25%. It was noted that she would continue to monitor overtime budgets affected by
      ongoing record snowfall this year.

 •    Code related to storm water and solid waste transfers. – Ms. Moore explained that transfers from
      the Solid Waste and Storm Water Funds to the GF were discontinued two years ago so the ordinance
      should be changed. Two purposes for the proposed ordinance were reviewed. The first was to
      repeal a section of City Code that required the City to transfer funds from the Solid Waste Fund and
      from the Storm Water Fund to the GF. The second purpose was to add language allowing the City
      Council to change the Power Fund transfer by making it optional; and clean up language making the
      ordinance more consistent with other current enterprise fund transfers.

  •   An ordinance updating power rates. – Mr. Bellon said Active Power Engineering and Bowen Collins
      are working on a master plan for the Power Department. He suggested that going forward, the
      master plan be reevaluated every five years.
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of March 21, 2023                           DRAFT                                               Page 2




       Mr. Bellon spoke about unprecedented power costs over the past few months. He said that the
       preliminary February 2023 UAMPS (Utah Associated Municipal Power Systems) power bill was $1.1
       million higher than it was in February of 2022. He introduced Rate Consultant Mr. Dave Berg, with
       DBC (Dave Berg Consulting) LLC, who joined the meeting via telecom to discuss the City’s current
       power rate situation. Mr. Berg said although he is located in Minnesota, he has assisted the Murray
       City Power Department with electrical utility analysis for the past seven years and has also worked
       with about 15 other municipalities in the State of Utah.

       Mr. Berg began by discussing the City’s 2023 FY (Fiscal Year) operating budget that ends June 30,
       2023. He said that on an operating basis, the budget reflected a $4.2-million operating loss. In
       addition to that, there was $2.9 million in a proposed transfer to the GF and $9 million allocated to
       capital improvements.

       This meant that there would be a $16 million loss relative to the budget, with a beginning of year
       cash balance of just under $30 million. Had the budget come to fruition, that would have negatively
       consumed half of the utility’s operating cash. Mr. Berg noted that he had just become aware of the
       budget in the last couple of months.

       Mr. Bellon said looking back at the operating loss of $4.2 million, a rate increase should have been
       implemented a year ago. This was the first time in 15 years that the power department had a
       negative operating balance. He explained how cash reserves were built up year after year and said
       once they reached the point of going into a negative operating revenue, they decided to use cash
       reserves instead of implementing a rate increase. Mr. Berg agreed with Mr. Bellon.

       Mr. Berg discussed the budget as of the end of December 2022. He said at that time net operating
       revenue was slightly positive and only 1% of capital improvements had been expended as projects
       were postponed. As a result, by the end of December the budget was breaking even because for
       the first 5 months of the fiscal year, power costs were slightly less than expected. Following this,
       power costs became progressively worse.

       Mr. Hrechkosy asked now that we know where energy costs were trending, was there a revised
       budget for considering future projections. Ms. Moore said the budget has not been revised. Mr.
       Hrechkosy thought it would be helpful to provide future projections and asked what capital
       improvement projects were postponed.

       Mr. Bellon said the AMI (advanced metering infrastructure) project budgeted for $4.5 million this
       year was postponed until next year due to supply chain issues. Mr. Hrechkosy asked if that project
       was critical. Mr. Bellon said no; but the condition of two sinking substations located on 4800 South
       are considered critical. He said the estimated cost for two substations is $3 million, but first survey
       work of the entire area must be finished, that is currently underway. The survey would determine
       where exactly to relocate and rebuild both substations. Once the survey is done, they would get a
       geotechnical study done, and then order two new transformers which are currently on a two-year
       backorder.

       Mr. Markham discussed recent activation of the emergency SCA (supply cost adjustment)
       authorized by the administration and asked how long it was in place. Mr. Bellon said six months.
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of March 21, 2023                         DRAFT                                             Page 3




       Mr. Markham wondered if that revenue was included in the operating budget, even though
       $170,000 per month was not a substantial amount of money to help the problem. Mr. Bellon said
       no it was not. Ms. Moore confirmed the total amount would be approximately $1 million. Mr.
       Markham requested they ensure the amount was well accounted for.

       Mr. Berg described a perfect storm in the western region that attributed to the uncertain market.
       Coal transportation issues related to railroad and trucking problems impacted the market; and coal
       plants not being allowed to run at full output. In addition, the drought impacted hydro plants due
       to lack of water, resulting in significantly reduced generated electricity. Because natural gas is
       generally the fuel used for marginal needed resources, other transportation and storage issues
       made for bad impact also.

       He said that natural gas pricing in our region was significantly higher than areas like Texas and
       Louisiana. Normal pricing for wholesale power is usually around $30 per megawatt hour, but last
       September there were days when the price exceeded $1,600 per megawatt hour. In December, the
       price exceeded over $600 per megawatt hour and was consistently above $200 per megawatt hour.
       In February of 2023, it was still in the hundred-dollar per megawatt hour range. Mr. Berg said
       considering all of the issues impacting market pricing, the cost for energy was driven to elevated
       levels that could not have been predicted.

       He confirmed that Murray Power essentially gets its power from two places; the majority from
       UAMPS, and a certain amount from the federal hydro power plant, which is WAPA (Western Area
       Power Administration). To review the FY 2023 purchased power costs he reported on average the
       power department budgeted $2 million per month for buying wholesale power; but from July 2022
       through November of 2022 costs were below that amount; in December 2022 the total cost for
       power soared to over $4 million per month, and in January of 2023 just over $3 million per month
       that continued into February.

       Mr. Berg said that as far as revising the budget to reflect what happened, or projecting what could
       happen in the future, it was hard to determine because every month the cost for wholesale power
       fluctuates. The swing in pricing is the biggest budget challenge related to uncertain wholesale
       power costs. In a good market some money can be gained, but in a bad market a lot of money is
       lost, which is essentially what occurred.

       Mr. Hrechkosy said prebuying energy, especially natural gas, helps mitigate some of the market
       uncertainty. Mr. Bellon agreed and explained that in November of 2022 when the Hunter Coal plant
       was curtailed at the same time of natural gas prices soaring to $60 per megawatt hour it was like
       two worlds colliding. Energy was purchased at $400 per megawatt hour, when normally it was $45
       per megawatt hour. He said the situation was uncontrollable and unforeseen. There was no way to
       eliminate the challenge and they tried to purchase power from UAMPS when the cost was soaring
       on a daily basis.

       Mr. Bellon said they mitigated soaring costs the best way they could, and they have pre-purchased
       natural gas through February 2024. Before the Hunter Coal plant shut down, coal purchases were
       prepaid from the Hunter Coal plant for the coming summer loads, which is not completely certain.
       The Hunter Coal Plant is scheduled to be back up and generating high load hours this June for
       Murray power.
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of March 21, 2023                         DRAFT                                             Page 4




       Mr. Hrechkosy asked what the locked-in price for pre-purchasing natural gas until February 2024
       was. Mr. Bellon said it was $4 per megawatt hour through the summer months, and for December
       and January it was $7. He did not think the price would escalate again to $60.

       Mr. Berg discussed the impact of purchased power, when over a five-month period there was a 15%
       increase of $2.5 million to overall operating costs. He anticipated the average cost from January
       2023 through May of 2023 would be more than that.

       Mr. Berg said the last time the City implemented a power rate increase was 12 years ago in 2011.

       Mr. Berg confirmed even though current capital projects were delayed, they would still need to
       happen; and clarified that at the beginning of the fiscal year, before the chaos of the market
       occurred in November of 2022, the Murray Power budget was already at a significant negative
       number. If the desire was to cash flow capital improvement projects, rather than issue debt, the
       power department was already behind before there was even a big increase in operating costs.

       Mr. Berg recommended the City increase power rates 9% overall effective May 1, 2023, or as soon
       as possible. He recommended performing a full cost of service and rate design study immediately
       because the last power rate study Mr. Berg did for Murray City was completed in 2016.

       Mr. Berg stated while no promise can be made about where future energy costs will go from here,
       it is common to consider raising rates 9% now, and then look again at the situation one year later.
       However, because things are so uncertain and ultimately a 9% increase only raises $3 million per
       year, which is $250,000 per month; and because Murray power department was spending $1 million
       per month with recent high prices, there is still going to be a challenge with the budget. It all
       depends on where the market settles.

       Mr. Berg reiterated Murray Power’s FY 2023 negativity of $4 million in operating revenue existed
       before the GF enterprise fund transfer was allocated. A proposed 9% rate increase only raises $3
       million, which means that another rate increase may be necessary again later this year. Mr. Berg
       recommended that a new power rate study should be conducted soon.

       He said many other utility companies borrow funds to rebuild substations, rather than use cash to
       pay for those projects. He felt there were other things that could be done over the next several
       months to improve the situation of the budget that will also help to determine future power rates
       and increases.

       Mr. Berg discussed details about the proposed 9% rate increase for residential customers that would
       increase the customer charge from $3.35 per month to $8.00. He noted this was a 138.8% increase,
       which was equal to $4.65. He suggested raising the second summer rate tier system so that
       residential customers will only see an increase if they use more than 600 kilowatt hours per month.

       Mr. Berg said that in 2016 he recommended that Murray Power raise the customer charge to $6,
       but it remained at $3.35.

       Ms. Cotter understood how the proposed increase would affect her own utility bill and discussed it
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of March 21, 2023                            DRAFT                                                Page 5




       in terms of money. Her bill would increase from $39.38 to $44.12, and a 9% increase was on the
       base rate, not kilowatt hours or the entire utility bill. She said paying for the basic service, to bring
       power into the home from the meter was similar to paying a basic fee for a land line phone service.
       Mr. Bellon agreed. Ms. Cotter thought citizens would understand the increase better if money
       language was used in the ordinance to explain the increase instead of a percentage. In addition a
       9% increase on a past summer bill would raise her amount up to $3.12.

       Ms. Cotter said because of this reasoning she can accept the proposed power rate increase more
       easily. Mr. Berg agreed Murray power rates are still very low comparatively and that when the
       increase was announced publicly, he would suggest telling citizens that the increase per month
       would be less than $5.

       Mr. Berg said in conclusion there is a cost to having a connection to the City’s power system, even
       if energy is not used in the home, because a transformer had to be placed in neighborhoods, power
       lines had to be connected to homes, meters had to be installed on houses and the meter needs to
       read effectively to produce a utility bill.

       Mr. Hill said the plan was for the City attorney’s office to draft an ordinance incorporating all the
       recommendations into the rate. If Council Members proposed something different between now
       and the next meeting, he would ask them to communicate with Mr. Bellon, Mayor Hales, or Mr.
       Critchfield. He said changes could also be made during a council meeting.

       Mr. Markham did not agree with raising rates now and then having to return with another increase
       in four months. He wanted to ensure it was done professionally and accurately the first time. Mayor
       Hales noted a past rate increase of another kind, and citizens felt a large increase of 45% was
       horrible. Mr. Markham asked since the City had not raised rates from 2011 until now, were citizens
       paying too much for energy all those years. Mr. Berg said no, the financials did not reflect that.

Adjournment: 5:19 p.m.
                                                                   Pattie Johnson
                                                                   Council Office Administrator III
Discussion
   Items
Discussion
 Item #1
                                   City Council

                                   Murray Area Chamber of
                                   Commerce

                                   Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                   DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗April 18, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Presentation from the Murray Area Chamber of Commerce
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ <ĞŶŶĞĚǇ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Information
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
Loren Pasalich

                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for
Presentation             The Murray Area Chamber of Commerce will present information
                         on their organization to the council.
15 Minutes

Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
April 5, 2023
Discussion
 Item #2
                                       City Attorney

                                       2023 Legislative Summary


                                       Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                       DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗April 18, 2023


Department                Purpose of Proposal
Director                    Provide an update of the 2023 Legislative Session
G.L. Critchfield
                          Action Requested
Phone #                     Informational only.
801-801-2640
                          Attachments
Presenters
                            2023 Legislative Summary
G.L. Critchfield, David
Stewart (Lobbyist) and
Kory Holdaway             Budget Impact
(Lobbyist)                  N/A



                          Description of this /tem
                            The City Attorney and our contracted lobbyists will
Required Time for
                            provide an update of the 2023 legislative session
Presentation
30 Minutes

Is This Time
Sensitive
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
April 5, 2023
                         2023 LEGISLATIVE SUMMARY

                          LEGISLATIVE BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS

                                 • 929 Introduced     • 575 Passed

                          UNDERSTANDING THE SUMMARY
                                               Legend

 Bill       Title                                                    Sponsor

                                            Bill Summary

        ULCT                CITY                                     VOTE


        Each box represents one bill that passed may impact Murray City. Some will have
greater impact than others.

        The green row (moving left to right) has the bill’s number, title and sponsor. The second
row (white row) summarizes the bill. And the bottom, or gray, row, shows the positions taken
for each bill by the Utah League of Cities and Towns (“ULCT”), the City and how each of the
state legislators representing Murray voted. The City positions are based upon input from
department heads or other employees as well as an educated guess at whether the legislation may
have a positive or negative affect on the City.

       The ULCT and City positions may be compared to the votes by those legislators who
represent Murray City as part of their district. Those legislators include:

               House of Representatives                 Senate
               34 – Carol Spackman-Moss                 13 - Nate Blouin
               35 – Mark Wheatley                       14 - Stephanie Pitcher
               39 – Ken Ivory
               40 - Andrew Stoddard
               41 – Gay Lynn Bennion

       Positions taken by the ULCT and City are identified by “Support”, “Oppose”, “Neutral,”
or “NP” (“No Position”). Votes taken by our legislators will appear as “Unanimous” except
where a legislator voted against the bill which will be identified as “Oppose.” As with many
summaries, we have not included every bill that may have at least some impact on the City. We
have included those that seem of greatest importance.

        The last section that is entitled “For Your Information” are bills that may not have a
direct impact on the City but show the direction of the legislature in different areas of legislation.

                                                                                                    1
This summary is divided into 12 sections:


1.     LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT . . . . . 03
2.     TRANSPORTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 06
3.     ELECTIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
4.     WATER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
5.     TAXATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
6.     GENERAL GOVERNMENT . . . . . . . . . . .16
7.     PUBLIC SAFETY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
8.     CRIMINAL JUSTICE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19
9.     JUSTICE COURT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
10.    CYBERSECURITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
11.    GRAMA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24
12.    PUBLIC MEETINGS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
13.    FOR YOUR INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . .26




                                                                         2
LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT

      Housing


HB 364     Housing Affordability Amendments                     Whyte

Since the mid 1990’s the State Legislature has identified the development of moderate-income
housing to be a statewide concern. As part of the city’s general plan, we were required to
incorporate a moderate income housing element. This element includes an analysis of how the
City will provide opportunities for developing moderate income housing. The Legislature has
in essence placed on cities the responsibility to prepare the way for the private sector
(developers) to solve the housing needs of Utah. Affordable housing is a top priority for the
Legislature.
Moderate income housing is defined by state law as “housing occupied or reserved for
occupancy by households with a gross household income equal to or less than 80% of the
median gross income for households of the same size in the county in which the city is
located.”
Planning for moderate income housing includes choosing from the Legislature’s “menu” of
strategies and demonstrating how the City will implement them within the general plan.
Reports must be submitted for state review. Preparing and submitting reports with state
overview apparently is designed to ensure the City regularly reviews its progress and makes
updates and changes as needed.
This bill continues to provide timelines for reports to be submitted. It makes reports an
administrative function. Reports are submitted for review to the Department of Workforce
Services (DWS). If the report does not meet the requirements set by the legislature, DWS
informs a city and an appeal may be taken by the city. SB0174 from this session imposes a fee
for noncompliance in the reporting process.
The Legislatures mandate is simple: Plan. Implement. Report.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                CITY                                  VOTE
    Support             Neutral                        Unanimous except Ivory




                                                                                                3
HB         LUDMA Modifications                                     Whyte
406S05

The Land Use Task Force is made up of the Utah League of Cities and Towns, Utah
Association of Counties, Property Rights Coalition (developers, landlords), and the Home
Builders Association. Input is also received from local districts, the Utah Land Use Institute,
other local government entities. This group meets between legislative sessions to formulate
land use policy and to provide legislation on land use best practices. HB0406 is the task
force’s latest bill. Given the wide variety of land use issues, task force bills end up as a hodge-
podge of changes, many to clarify existing laws.

HB0406 addresses annexation (allows a city to reconsider a decision to deny an annexation
petition), “residential roads” (roads primarily serving neighborhood traffic and not next to
high traffic volume lots may not be required in excess of 32 feet wide), lot line adjustments
(cannot be considered subdivision amendments), future development agreements (identify
any rights an applicant may waive by signing the agreement), temporary land use
regulations (moratoriums cannot be imposed to apply new temporary land use regulations on
applications restrained by a prior temporary land use regulation) and landscape bonding
(cannot require bond on private landscaping, public landscaping bond limited to 110% of
estimated cost).

Effective May 3, 2023.

     ULCT                CITY                                     VOTE
      NP                 Neutral                          Unanimous except Ivory
                                                          Moss absent or not voting


SB 174     Local Land Use and Development Revisions                Fillmore

Amends provisions of LUDMA. Adds a $250/day penalty for moderate income housing
noncompliance (see HB 364); Expands Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) to include a garage
that shares a wall with the primary residence; Makes the subdivision process administrative
only (Murray’s process is already administrative) and imposes a (very challenging) shot clock
for approval subdivision plats.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                 CITY                                    VOTE
    Support              Oppose                    Unanimous except Ivory and Wheatley




                                                                                                  4
SB 199     Local Land Use Amendments                              McKell

The Utah Constitution includes the clause that “All political power is inherent in the people.”
This sentence forms the basis for a referendum. Not long ago the Utah Supreme Court
declared that a zoning change is a legislative function and therefore, referable. This bill
attempts to limit land use referendums. Specifically, SB 199 prohibits a referendum of a land
use law passed by a unanimous vote. It should not be surprising if this law is challenged in
court.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                 CITY                                     VOTE
    Neutral          Neutral/Oppose     For: Ivory, Stoddard, Blouin, Pitcher
                                        Against: Bennion, Moss, Wheatley




SB 271     Home Ownership Requirements                            McKell

Prohibits the Council from passing and the administration from enforcing a land use regulation
that treats co-owned homes differently than other residential units.

Effective: May 3, 2023

    ULCT                 CITY                                     VOTE
    Oppose               Oppose         For: Ivory, Stoddard, Blouin, Pitcher
                                        Against: Bennion, Moss, Wheatley




                                                                                                  5
      Homelessness

HB 499     Homeless Services Amendments                            Eliason

In 2018 the State established the “shelter city mitigation fund” recognizing that homelessness
is a statewide issue. Every city may either host a qualifying shelter or contribute to the fund.
Murray has contributed annually to the fund. There is a shortfall in the fund making it
impossible to reimburse all public safety impacts on host cities. HB 499 increases both the
state and local contributions into the mitigation fund to better cover the expenses of shelter
cities. Murray will contribute 2.55% of the population distribution of its sales tax with a
maximum cap of $275,000 per year.

HB 499 also requires Salt Lake County to submit a winter response plan for homelessness.
Input is received from all cities within the county. If the plan is not submitted or found to be
inadequate, the State may step in and initiate its own response.

Provides that when the temperature is predicted to be 15 degrees or lower, shelters may
expand their capacities and comply with other requirements. Cities, during such an event,
must assist in street outreach to distribute resources for survival in cold weather. Cities may
not enforce ordinances prohibiting camping, abate camps, seize personal items or impose
restrictions on shelters, indoor facilities, including enforcing zoning ordinances for the
duration of the event.

Effective May 3, 2023; Mitigation Fund Increases Effective January 1, 2024

    ULCT                  CITY                                    VOTE
    Support              Support                                Unanimous
                                                         Ivory absent or not voting




                                                                                                   6
TRANSPORTATION
SB                                                                 .
27S04      Transportation Revisions                                Harper

Requires cities to send comprehensive general plan updates to their respective association of
governments within 45 days after adoption.

It is now an infraction to pass a snowplow on the side where the plow blade is deployed if the
snowplow is displaying flashing yellow lights or to pass snowplows in “echelon formation.”

Requires drivers, if practical and with due regard to safety, when approaching a vehicle
adjacent to the highway not parked in a legal parking area that has its hazard lights flashing to
reduce speed, provide as much space as possible, and where traveling in a lane adjacent to the
stationary vehicle to change lanes. Allows one traveling in an HOV lane and approaching a
stationary vehicle near the HOV lane to make a lane change out of the HOV lane.

Authorizes an interlocal agency, political subdivision or state agency to contract with a vendor
who provides technology that increases efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency in
dispatching vehicle towing providers and management of towing rotations.

Clarifies that for station area plans, areas must have five continuous acres that are at least 51%
inside the station area radius. Cities must also now notify their metropolitan planning
organization within 45 days of receiving a land use petition that involves land within a station
area plan and satisfies other criteria.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                  CITY                                   VOTE
    Support               Neutral                               Unanimous


SB
185S04     Transportation Amendments                               Harper

Establishes the Actie Transportation Investment Fund to develop paved pedestrian and non-
motorized trails as part of an approved active transportation plan.

Authorizes revenue from the Road Usage Charge (RUC) program to be divided in the same
manner as the motor fuel tax (70% to UDOT, and 30% to cities and counties.)
(2) Extends the deadline from 2023 t0 2026 to impose the .20% ("5th 5th") local option
transportation sales tax.

Effective March 8, 2023

    ULCT                   CITY                                  VOTE
    Support               Support                               Unanimous

                                                                                                     7
SB
260S02     Transportation Funding Requirements                    Cullimore

Authorizes any county to impose the 0.20% local option sales tax (“5th 5th”) by removing the
deadline to impose the tax. Counties with transit may impose the tax and divide the funds
between transit, cites, and counties. Revenue would be distributed according to an entity’s
compliance with the moderate-income housing plan required by the state. For the levy to take
effect, the county must impose the tax.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                  CITY                                  VOTE
    Support              Support                         Unanimous except Ivory




SB
24S01      Advanced Air Mobility Amendments                       Harper

This bill (and SB 161) looks to the (near?) future of aviation and how people and goods may
be moved.

Grants the division of Aeronautics the authority of oversight of “vertiports” (hubs for vertical
take-off and landing aircraft, ie, air taxis and drones). Authorizes UDOT rulemaking authority
for requirements for unmanned aircraft and registration fees. All operators of advanced air
mobility systems must register with UDOT (Division of Aetonautics).

The City may require an operation to obtain a business license to operate within the city but
only if the operator does not have a valid license from another city.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                 CITY                                     VOTE
    Neutral              Neutral                               Unanimous
                                                      (Blouin did not vote or absent)




                                                                                                   8
SB
161S01     Advance Air Mobility Revisions                        Harper

Prohibits the City from granting an exclusive right to one or more vertiport owners.

Requires UDOT to study regulations relating to advanced air mobility systems: Vertiport
locations, infrastructure, and parking need; best practices of air mobility technology
implementation (ie, regulations, community engagement, weather reporting); unmanned
aircraft traffic management and infrastructure and the creation of an advanced air mobility
sandbox. UDOT must present their findings to the Transportation Interim Committee no later
than September 2023.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                 CITY                                  VOTE
    Neutral              Neutral                              Unanimous




SB
84S02      Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zone                 Harper

Makes several changes to the process for establishing a Housing and Transit Reinvestment
Zone (“HRTZ”). HRT zones are intended to make it easier to build affordable housing near
public transit. One of the provisions of this bill grants entitlement to a development within
Summit County that is connected to an existing HRTZ requirement in Summit County. This
provision has no apparent application to any other jurisdiction.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                 CITY                                  VOTE
    Neutral              Oppose                               Unanimous




                                                                                                9
HB
301S03      Transportation Tax Amendments                              Schultz

Increases vehicle registration by $7 for annual registration; Establishes the Electric Vehicle
Charging Tax to be levied on retail charging stations at 12.5%; and temporarily reduces the
motor fuel tax – decreases the rate to 14.2% and then gradually increases over time.

Effective January 1, 2024

     ULCT                  CITY                                        VOTE
     Support               Neutral          In Favor: Ivory
                                            Opposed: Bennion, Blouin, Pitcher, Spackman-Moss,
                                            Stoddard, Wheatley



HB
51S04       Railroad Right of Way Amendments                           Snider

Allows a government entity to assess a railroad for any portion of the cost of a public
infrastructure improvement that are at least partially in the railroad's right of way if the
improvement benefits the railroad and the assessment is proportionate to the railroad's benefit.
Improvements may include water, electrical, sewer, telecommunications, signage, signaling, or
other transportation infrastructure.

Effective March 31, 2024

     ULCT                   CITY                                     VOTE
     Support               Support                                  Unanimous




ELECTIONS

HB162S01 Voter Accessibility Amendments                                 M. Gwynn

Requires an election officer to provide an accessible voting option for a voter with a disability and to
provide notice of how to access this option. Provides rules for verifying the identity of individuals who
are not able to sign their name consistently due to a disability.

Effective May 3, 2023

      ULCT                   CITY                                     VOTE
     Support                Support                                Unanimous
                                                          (Wheatley, absent or not voting)



                                                                                                       10
HB
69S03      Election Modifications                                  Musselman

Clarifies what an election officer must do when a municipal candidate is disqualified for
failing to file a campaign finance statement, after notifying the disqualified candidate:

                    1. notify every opposing candidate of the disqualification,
                    2. send an email to each voter who is eligible to vote for the candidate
                         that votes for the candidate will not be counted,
                    3. post the information on a public website, and if practicable,
                    4. remove or black out the candidates name on ballots.

Also clarifies the information that should go on the ballot for a municipal initiative or
referendum.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                   CITY                                  VOTE
    Support               Support                               Unanimous



HB
73S01      Municipal Office Modifications                          Welton

Filling midterm vacancies in a city council.

City Council Member: if a midterm vacancy occurs the city council member leaving the city
council may interview and vote for their replacement.

Mayor’s Role: the mayor may not vote, veto the city council decision or vote in the case of a
tie. . .

unless, due to her/his election or appointment as mayor, she/he is resigning from the city
council, then the mayor may, in the case of a tie, may cast a vote.

Tie votes trigger a coin toss.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                  CITY                                  VOTE
     Neutral              Support                               Unanimous




                                                                                                11
SB
17S01      Voting and Voter Residency Amendments                    Thatcher

Allows an individual to challenge a voter’s residency. Authorizes an individual to request
help from an election official to determine the individual’s residency. If election official
receives or has “reasonable, articulable grounds” to question a voter’s residency, authorizes
the election official to require the voter to provide more information. Determining a person’s
principal place of residence takes into account “(i) the intent expressed by the individual; and
(ii) acts of the individual that are consistent or inconsistent with the intent expressed by
the individual.” This bill provides additional factors (acts of the individual) to the existing list
to help an election official determine an individual’s principal place of residence. New factors
include, where an individual’s motor vehicles are registered, the address for which utilities are
paid, any address associated with a hunting or fishing license, and the address associated with
a professional license.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                   CITY                                   VOTE
    Support               Support                                Unanimous



HB 347     Ballot Drop Box Amendments                               Petersen

Increases the criminal penalty for tampering with a ballot drop box or its contents from a class
A misdemeanor to a third-degree felony.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                 CITY                                    VOTE
      NP                  Neutral                     Unanimously Against except Ivory



HB         Election Audit Requirements                              Schultz
269S02

Requires Utah’s primary and general elections to be audited every other year to ensure election
integrity.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                 CITY                                    VOTE
      NP                  Neutral                                Unanimous




                                                                                                  12
WATER


SB
76S03      Water Amendments                                        Sandall

Among other things, requires the planning commission to consult with the Division of Water
Resources regarding regional water conservation goals when drafting the water use and
preservation element of the general plan. The Division is to assist the planning commission to
determine how implementing the land use and water use elements of the general plans may
affect the Great Salt Lake.

Also requires the Division to study how greater efficiencies can be found through improved
coordination, consolidation, and regionalization of public water systems.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                 CITY                                    VOTE
    Neutral         Oppose (regional                            Unanimous
                       planning)




SB 119     Per Capita Consumptive Use                              McKell

Establishes how “per capita” water use is calculated. Frequently, Utah’s water use is
compared to other western states water use but states do not all calculate water use the same
way. Consequently, this bill defines “per capita consumptive use” as “a valid representation of
total water consumed divided by the total population for a given area.

Authorizes certain water districts to implement the codified calculation. This bill prohibits a
political subdivision (the City) from calculating, publishing, or disseminating a statewide per
capita consumptive use number; or per capita consumptive use number for a first class or
second class county that is different from a number reported by a reporting district.

    ULCT                 CITY                                      VOTE
    Neutral              Neutral         For: Ivory, Moss, Stoddard, Wheatley, Blouin, Pitcher
                                         Against: Bennion




                                                                                                  13
HB
307S03      Utah Water Ways                                             Mussleman

Establishes a nonprofit partnership to address water conservation. The nonprofit will sponsor
policy discussions, involve the private sector to support conservation efforts, promote grants,
sponsorships, and rebate programs that support responsible water use, provide education and
public awareness campaigns.

Effective July 1, 2023

     ULCT                   CITY                                      VOTE
     Neutral               Support                                 Unanimous
                                                           Wheatley, absent or not voting




SB118S05 Water Efficient Landscaping Incentives                          Sandall

Allocates $3 million to water conservancy districts for local turf-replacement programs. Money used
for the program is to be used as an incentive for households to remove grass and replace it with water-
efficient landscaping. In order to qualify for funds, the property must be located in a municipality that
has implemented water use efficiency standards established by the Division of Water Resources. .

Effective March 14, 2023

     ULCT                   CITY                                       VOTE
     Neutral                Neutral          For: Bennion, Blouin, Pitcher, Moss, Stoddard, Wheatley
                                             Against: Ivory

TAXATION

       Property Tax

HB
345S01      Local District Property Tax Amendments                      Peterson

Requires unelected districts to report (through a member of the board) proposed property tax
increases or bond issuances to the legislative body. Allows the legislative body to give its
opinion on the tax increase or bond issuance. The belief is that this makes these actions more
transparent.

Effective Date: May 3, 2023

     ULCT                   CITY                                      VOTE
     Neutral               Support                                   Unanimous




                                                                                                        14
SB81S02     Property Tax Deferral Revisions                        Fillmore

SB 22 (2022) created a property tax deferment program for seniors to provide relief from
rising property taxes. Under SB 22, eligible homeowners can defer paying property taxes until
a title transfer. Upon transfer, the taxes would be due with interest. All taxing entities, under a
deferral, would still be able to collect the revenue. SB 22 allocated $8 million of state funding
to keep local governmental entities harmless while the program began operation.
SB 81 extends the deferment program to a surviving spouse. Property tax deferment may
continue even when property is transferred (title to the property) to a surviving spouse.

Effective January 1, 2023

    ULCT                  CITY                                    VOTE
    Neutral               Neutral                                Unanimous




        Sales Tax

SB
75S02       Sand and Gravel Sales Tax Amendments                   Sandall

Changes the point of sale for gravel and ready-mix concrete sales to the weigh station. The
intent was to provide more money to cities with gravel pits to help mitigate gravel pit impacts.
However, since the 1980’s, when an agreement was reached between cities, this would be the
first time that sales tax has been reallocated outside the agreement.

ULCT opposed the bill and when it passed sent a request for the governor to veto SB 75. The
governor did not veto the bill.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                  CITY                                       VOTE
    Oppose                Oppose          For: Ivory, Blouin, Pitcher
                                          Against: Bennion, Moss, Stoddard, Wheatley.




                                                                                                 15
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
       First Responders

HB59S03 First Responder Mental Health Amendments                        Wilcox

Adds spouses of retired first responders to the list of those who qualify for mental health services and
requires that mental health services be provided on a regular and continuing basis.

Effective March 1, 2023

     ULCT                  CITY                                       VOTE
     Neutral               Neutral                                   Unanimous

       Vaccine Passports

HB0131      Vaccine Passport Prohibition                                .Brooks

Prohibits a place of accommodation from discriminating (e.g. a restaurant from refusing entry)
due to one’s immunity status. Prohibits City from requiring proof of immunity status and from
requiring employee to receive a vaccine.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                  CITY                                         VOTE
     Oppose                Oppose            Against: Blouin, Pitcher, Bennion, Moss, Wheatley
                                             For: Ivory, Stoddard

       Reciprocal Business Licensing

HB 408      Mobile Business Licensing Amendments                        Spendlove

Reciprocal licensing. Currently, we accept and honor business licenses issued by other cities
or counties to businesses whose only activity is the delivery of property sold at a regular place
of business licensed and maintained outside the City so long as the same city or county
reciprocates and accepts and honors business licenses issued by Murray.

HB 408 extends reciprocal business licensing to mobile businesses such as barbers, cell
phones, computers, cosmeticians, cycling, footwear, media archive and transfer, pet grooming,
sewing and tailoring, small engine, and tools.

Does not affect regulatory authority of health department.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                   CITY                                      VOTE
     Neutral               Support                                   Unanimous

                                                                                                           16
        Work Force

HB555S01 Talent Ready Utah Program Modifications                         J. Moss

Talent Ready Utah is an initiative of the Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity that
seeks to build a highly-skilled workforce by creating partnerships between education and
industry. This bill creates an appointed apprenticeship intermediary position to bring together
the Utah Ready Utah Program, industry leaders and local education agencies.

Provides that an intern participating through an institution of higher education or public school
is considered a volunteer government worker for purposes of workers’ compensation and
liability.

Effective May 3, 2023

        ULCT                 CITY                                      VOTE
         NP                   NP                                      Unanimous


        SLAPP Suits

SB 18       Public Expression Protection Act                            Bramble

Enacts the Uniform Public Expression Protection Act (UPEPA). Designed to deter “SLAPP” suits,
(strategic lawsuits against public participation) that are filed to suppress free speech by alleging
meritless claims of defamation, privacy, or nuisance.

UPEPA does not include lawsuits against government employees acting in their official capacities or
lawsuits brought by the government to enforce public health or safety measures.

If person sued files a motion to dismiss and convinces the judge that their speech is protected under
UPEPA, the judge can dismiss the SLAPP. The judge then must award the person sued their court
costs, attorney’s fees, and litigation expenses (related to the motion to dismiss). However, if the judge
finds the motion to dismiss to be frivolous, then the plaintiff may recover the same fees from the
defendant.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                   CITY                                      VOTE
     Support               Support                                   Unanimous




                                                                                                        17
      Procurement

SB97S02     Public Contract Requirements                               Wilson

Public entities are prohibited from entering into a contract with a company who boycotts the state of
Israel. This bill adds companies that engage in certain environmental boycott actions.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                  CITY                                     VOTE
      NP                Oppose (local                   Unanimously against, except Ivory
                          control)



PUBLIC SAFETY

        Domestic Violence

SB117S04 Domestic Violence Amendments                                  Weiler

Requires law enforcement officer to conduct a lethality assessment when responding to a
report of domestic violence and describes the protocol for a lethality assessment. The results of
the assessment must be included in the incident report and within the probable cause. The
results must be submitted to the Department of Public Safety.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                   CITY                                      VOTE
     Neutral               Support                                  Unanimous




HB
43S02       Domestic Violence Modifications                            Pierucci

Creates a task force to compile lethality assessment data collected by officers and to provide
the data throughout the state to agencies and courts.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                  CITY                                      VOTE
     Neutral               Neutral                                  Unanimous



                                                                                                        18
HB509S01 Criminal Protective Order Amendments                          Stoddard

Allows a victim to request a hearing regarding a continuous protective order for domestic violence.

Effective May 3, 2023

      ULCT                   CITY                                     VOTE
       NP                   Support                                 Unanimous

        School Safety

HB
61S04       School Safety Requirements                                Wilcox

Creates a security chief position in the Department of Public Safety. The security chief ensures
that a new school has proper security in place. Requires a county to select a position within a
sheriff’s office to coordinate with the police chief, county sheriff, and security chief.

Also creates a School Security Task Force to establish the security chief’s responsibilities and
minimum safety design standards for schools.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                  CITY                                       VOTE
     Neutral               Neutral                                 Unanimous
                                                        (Moss, Ivory: absent or not voting)

CRIMINAL JUSTICE


HB
146S04      Sex Offender Restricted Area Amendments                   Maloy

Currently a registered sex offender may not access public pools and parks. This bill prohibits
access to swimming pools, recreation rooms, and park facilities in apartment complexes,
condominium projects and home owner associations.

Effective February 27, 2023

     ULCT                  CITY                                     VOTE
      NP                  Support                                  Unanimous




                                                                                                      19
HB
143S01     Parental Kidnapping Amendments                          Hawkins

It is a third degree felony and considered parental kidnapping for a parent to

 (a) takes, entices, conceals, detains, or withholds the child from an individual entitled
     to custody of the child;
 (b) intends to interfere with the custody of the child; and
 (c) (i) has never had a right to physical custody of the child;
   (ii) has never been granted parent-time with the child;
   (iii) has had all rights to physical custody of the child terminated by a court; or
   (iv) at the time of the parent's action under Subsection (2)(a), had parent-time with the
         child terminated or suspended by a court.

The penalty increases to a second degree felony if during the kidnapping the child is removed
from the state.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                 CITY                                   VOTE
      NP                 Support                                Unanimous




SB         Investigative Genetic Genealogy Modifications
156S03     (“Sherry Black bill”)                                   Weiler

Bill named after Sherry Black, a bookstore owner murdered in South Salt Lake in 2010. The
case was solved through genealogy DNA testing.

Currently police may search genetic testing databases that allow their users to opt-in. This bill
limits warrantless searches of such databases to investigations for violent crimes. It excludes
customers who don't agree to make their genetic information searchable by law enforcement. It
allows genetic test customers’ to voluntarily allow their test results to be searchable and it
prohibits an arrest based only on data obtained from such databases.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                 CITY                                    VOTE
      NP                 Support                           Unanimous except Ivory




                                                                                                20
SB0049     Juvenile Custodial Interrogation Amendments              Riebe

Creates Miranda rights for kids:

    Before the custodial interrogation of a child by a peace officer or a juvenile probation
officer, the peace officer or juvenile probation officer shall disclose the following to the child:

      (a) You have the right to remain silent.
      (b) If you do not want to talk to me, you do not have to talk to me.
      (c) If you decide to talk to me, you have the right to stop answering my questions or
          talking to me at any time.
     (d) Anything you say can and will be used against you in court.
      (e) If you talk to me, I can tell a judge and everyone else in court everything that you
          tell me.
      (f) You have the right to have a parent or guardian, or a friendly adult if applicable,
          with you while I ask you questions.
      (g) You have the right to a lawyer.
      (h) You can talk to a lawyer before I ask you any questions and you can have that
           lawyer with you while I ask you questions.
      (i) If you want to talk to a lawyer, a lawyer will be provided to you for free.
      (j) These are your rights.
      (k) Do you understand the rights that I have just told you?
      (l) Do you want to talk to me?

Increases allowable detention time from 2 hours to 4 (it was difficult getting parents off work
and to the interview within 2 hours).

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                 CITY                                    VOTE
     Neutral              Neutral                                Unanimous




HB                                                                  .
192S01     Traffic Violation Amendments                             Teuscher

Expands the availability of a deferred prosecution for certain traffic infractions to certain
individuals if the individual completes a traffic school course as part of the deferred
prosecution agreement.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                  CITY                                   VOTE
    Support               Oppose                         Unanimous except Stoddard



                                                                                                  21
HB0236     Driving Under the Influence Testing                      Burton

Provides immunity from civil and criminal liability to a law enforcement agency arising out of
a blood draw so long as the officer has reason to believe the suspect is driving under the
influence and the blood drawn is at a law enforcement facility in a secure area not accessible
by the public.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                 CITY                                    VOTE
      NP                  Neutral                                Unanimous




SB148S03 Invisible Condition Information Amendments                 .Anderegg

Attempts to integrate awareness of invisible conditions into public safety. Invisible conditions are
conditions that are not visible to the outside and include conditions such as physical or mental
condition that may interfere with an individual's ability to communicate with a first responder,
including a communication impediment, hearing loss, blindness or a visual impairment, autism
spectrum disorder, a drug allergy, Alzheimer's disease or dementia, post-traumatic stress
disorder, traumatic brain injury, schizophrenia, epilepsy, a developmental disability, Down
syndrome, diabetes, a heart condition, or any other condition approved by the department.

Allows an individual with an invisible condition to register their condition with the state and
affix a decal to their car or add notification to their state-issued ID. When a police officer or
dispatch enters the person’s name or address into the dispatch system, authorities will be
notified of the condition.

Effective July 1, 2023

     ULCT                  CITY                                     VOTE
      NP                  Support                                 Unanimous




                                                                                                    22
JUSTICE COURT


HB
201S04     Justice Court Changes                                   Hawkins

Creates the Justice Court Reform Task Force to review the structure of the court system and
justice courts role in that system, appeals from justice courts, qualifications of justice court
judges. Task Force is set to be repealed July 1, 2025.

Requires that all justice court judges appointed after May 3, 2023 have a law degree. Current
justice court judge who do not have a law degree may continue in office until the judge
resigns, retires, is not retained, or is removed.

Increases the bottom range of a salary for a justice court judge from between 50% to 70% of a
district court judge’s salary making the range (70% to 90%).

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                  CITY                                    VOTE
    Neutral           Neutral/Oppose                             Unanimous




CYBERSECURITY


SB127S01 Cybersecurity Amendments                                   Harper

Creates the Utah Cyber Center. Requires a governmental entity to contact the Center as soon
as practicable after a breach of the entity’s system security. Requires the Center to provide the
governmental entity with assistance including: :(a) conducting all or part of the investigation ,
(b) assisting law enforcement with the law enforcement investigation if needed, (c)
determining the scope of the breach of system security, (d) assisting the governmental entity in
restoring the reasonable integrity of the system or (e) providing any other assistance in
response to the reported breach of system security.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                 CITY                                     VOTE
     Neutral              Neutral                                Unanimous




                                                                                                   23
HB
470S01     Government Digital Verifiable Record Amendments         Cutler

Requires the state’s Division of Technology Services to provide recommendations to
governmental entities regarding the following:

    (a) appropriate digital record schemas that allow a government to issue a digital
        verifiable credential or record;
    (b) policies and procedures to protect the privacy of personal identifying information
     maintained within distributed ledger programs;
     (c) the manner and format in which an issuer may certify a document through
   blockchain; and
     (d) processes and procedures for the preservation, auditability, integrity, security, and
   confidentiality of digital verifiable credentials and records;

Requires the Division to create a pilot program for the implementation of digital verifiable
credentials by governmental entities; and

Requires the Division to report to Public Utilities, Energy, and Technology Interim Committee
by October 31, 2023, on the recommendations and pilot program.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                 CITY                                    VOTE
    Neutral              Neutral                          Unanimous except Ivory




GRAMA


SB 231     Government Records Access and Management Act
S04        Amendments                                              Bramble

Enacts a new section of GRAMA to create a process to deal with “vexatious” requesters.

Prior to this bill, a business the City is dealing with could claim that information provided to
the city was confidential and not subject to GRAMA disclosure – this is known as the
“business confidentiality claim. This bill requires that those claiming business confidentiality
to indemnify the City in an action arising out of the City’s refusal to disclose the record
subject to the confidentiality claim.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                  CITY                                    VOTE
    Support              Support                                 Unanimous

                                                                                                 24
HB                                                                .
255S01     Vehicle Accident Reports Amendments                    Stoddard

Prior to this bill, we considered information from individuals involved in an accident different
from witnesses to the accident. HB 255S01 requires the City to provide an unredacted
accident report to those authorized to receive an accident report. Report must include cause of
accident, existing conditions, and name, address, and phone number of everyone involved,
including witnesses. If a witness requests to exclude the witness’ address and phone number,
the investigating officer may exclude this information from the accident report but must create
a separate record with the name, address and phone number so that parties to a lawsuit can
discover who witnessed the accident.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                 CITY                                   VOTE
      NP                 Support                                Unanimous




PUBLIC MEETINGS
SB
43S03      Public Notice Requirements                             Pitcher

This bill is 380 pages in length in order to cover every notice requirement. This bill creates a
new classification system for public notices: Class A and Class B.
In summary, Class A notices require posting notice on the Utah Public Notice Website, the
City’s website, and posting within an area most affected in a manner that is “reasonably
likely” to be seen by those affected. Class B notices require complying with the Class A
requirements with the addition of mailing or delivering notice to residents in an affected
geographic area.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                  CITY                                   VOTE
    Support              Support                                Unanimous




                                                                                                   25
SB 245     Closed Public Meeting Amendments                      Bramble

Adds consideration of a loan application to the list of reasons a public meeting may be closed
if public discussion of the loan application would disclose:
     (a) nonpublic personal financial information; or
     (b) a nonpublic trade secret or nonpublic business financial information the disclosure
            of which would reasonably be expected to result in unfair competitive injury to the
            person submitting the information; or

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                  CITY                                  VOTE
    Support              Support                               Unanimous




FOR YOUR INFORMATION


HB 278     First Responder Mental Health Services Grant          Wilcox

Creates the First Responder Mental Health Services Grant Program to be administered by the
Utah Board of Higher Education. The Board will provide grants to an applicant who to
become a mental health therapist who:
  (a) is a full-time employee or a retiree, as that term is defined in Section 49-11-102,
who is an active member of or has qualified for an allowance under the requirements of:
       (i) Public Safety Contributory Retirement Act;
       (ii) Public Safety Noncontributory Retirement Act;
       (iii) Firefighters' Retirement Act; or
       (iv) New Public Safety and Firefighter Tier II Contributory Retirement Act; and
   (b) is seeking a post-secondary degree or certification to become a mental health therapist,
within the state system of higher education.

Effective July1, 2023

    ULCT                  CITY                                  VOTE
    Support              Support                               Unanimous




                                                                                                  26
SB
128S05     Public Safety Officer Scholarship Program              Ipson

Creates the Karen Mayne Public Safety Officer Scholarship Program for high school graduates
to be administered by the Utah Board of Higher Education. A scholarship may be awarded to
a qualified applicant who is a high school graduate; applies with a copy of the student’s
diploma; enrolls in an approved program; commits to working as a peace officer for at least fie
years after the day the individual is Post-certified. The Board determines the eligible
programs including criminal justice, police administration, criminology, social sciences, and
other disciplines.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                   CITY                                 VOTE
    Support               Support                              Unanimous




SB
136S03     Legislative Office Amendments                          Bramble

The Utah Constitution provides:

Article VI, Section 33 [Legislative auditor appointed.] The Legislature shall appoint a
legislative auditor to serve at its pleasure. The legislative auditor shall have authority to
conduct audits of any funds, functions, and accounts in any branch, department, agency or
political subdivision of this state and shall perform such other related duties as may be
prescribed by the Legislature. The legislative auditor shall report to and be answerable only to
the Legislature.

Among other things this bill requires the entity audited to provide immediate access to
information the office of the legislative auditor deems necessary to conduct the audit.

Effective March 3, 2023

    ULCT                  CITY                                  VOTE
    Neutral               Neutral                              Unanimous




                                                                                               27
HB 512     Elected Official Education                               Wilson

Requires the state legislature to hold an annual “summit” to train (educate) local elected
officials. Topics covered: taxation, revenue, professional development, legal requirements for
elected officials, and budgeting and the interface between state and local jurisdiction.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                 CITY                                    VOTE
     Neutral              Neutral                                Unanimous



HB 506     Government Entity Compliance Amendments                  Wilcox

ULCT and the City opposed this bill believing that it was an example of State
micromanagement.

Requires a webpage (maintained by the Office of Legislative Research and General Counsel)
that annually lists:

All reports that a government employee, official, or entity is required to submit to a committee
of the state legislature. There will be a link to the report with the following information: (1)
submission deadline; (2) citation to the law requiring he report; (3) whether the report was
submitted on time; and (4) whether the report contained the information required by law.

Also, for each new law that requires a government employee, official, or entity to adopt a
policy, there will be posted online (1) bill information; (2) citation to the law requiring the
policy; (3) brief description of the policy; and a list of those required to adopt the policy.

Effective July 1, 2023

    ULCT                  CITY                                    VOTE
    Oppose                Oppose                            Unanimous (in favor)




SB 125     Transportation Infrastructure Amendments                 Wilson

Designates USU (ASPIRE Engineering Research Center) as a research center for planning the
electrification of transportation infrastructure in Utah.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                  CITY                                     VOTE

                                                                                                  28
       NP                   NP                                  Unanimous




HB
374S02      County Sheriff Amendments                             Teuscher

Dissolves the Unified Police Department of Greater Salt Lake in 2025.

Effective May 3, 2023

     ULCT                 CITY                                     VOTE
      NP                  Neutral        For: Bennion, Ivory
                                         Against: Blouin, Pitcher, Moss, Stoddard, Wheatley

SCR 002     Concurrent Resolution Regarding the Environmental
            Impact of Vehicle Idling                              Fillmore

The state legislature resolves that:

The Legislature of the state of Utah, the Governor concurring therein, encourages all Utahns to
"Turn Your Key, Be Idle Free" and turn off their engine when idling for more than ten seconds
at the drive-through, school pickup, airports, and any areas where sensitive populations
congregate, to improve air quality and save on fuel. This resolution encourages Utahns,
businesses, and other entities to take steps to reduce idling.

Businesses along with chambers of commerce, schools, hospitals, and airports are encouraged
to place signs educating the public on how ten seconds of idling wastes more gas than
restarting the engine and spread awareness of the "Turn Your Key, Be Idle Free" campaign.

Effective February 27, 2023

     ULCT                  CITY                                  VOTE
     Neutral              Support                         Unanimous except Ivory

HB
409S01      State Construction and Fire Code Amendments           Peterson

 Repeals Tall Wood Buildings of Mass Timber Construction Incorporated as Part of State
Construction Code; adopts the 2021 edition of the International Fire Code, with amendments;
and adopts and amends certain National Fire Protection Association codes and standards.

Effective May 3, 2023

    ULCT                   CITY                                  VOTE
    Support               Support                               Unanimous


                                                                                              29
30
Discussion
 Item #3
                                    City Council

                                    Grass Removal Rebate Program


                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗April 18, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 To receive information on the State's grass removal rebate
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ <ĞŶŶĞĚǇ         program.
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Information
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Overview of the State's grass removal rebate program, Tree and
Pam Cotter               Lawn article, Conservation Garden Park information
                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        During the 2022 legislative session, the Division of Water
Presentation             Resources received $5 million to implement a statewide grass
                         removal rebate program.
15 Minutes

Is This Time             Murray City is currently not part of the state's program. Pam
                         would like to discuss the probability of Murray City implementing
Sensitive                our own rebate program to encourage citizens to utilize
Yes                      waterwise landscaping.
Mayor’s Approval



Date
April 5, 2023
LANDSCAPE REBATES




During the 2022 legislative session, the Division of Water Resources received $5 million to
implement a statewide grass removal rebate program. The program encourages waterwise
landscaping, including having lawns only where they’re actively used.

The statewide program will launch through Utah Water Savers in spring 2023.

The division has partnered with Central Utah, Jordan Valley, Washington County, and Weber
Basin Water Conservancy Districts to increase program awareness and funding and develop
program requirements. These requirements include waterwise landscape standards for new
residential developments. Residents in areas that have adopted qualifying landscape
standards are eligible for state rebate funding.

A list of eligible cities, information for communities interested in adopting water-efficient
landscape policy, and information about rebate applications are found below.
Eligible Locations
The following cities have adopted qualifying water-efficient landscape ordinances for new
residential developments. Residents in these areas are eligible for rebates. Cities will be added as
landscape ordinances are updated to meet state requirements.


  Bluffdale                            Kearns Metro Township                    South Jordan


  Cedar Hills                          La Verkin                                St. George


  Clearfield                           Lehi                                     Syracuse


  Cottonwood Heights                   North Salt Lake                          Washington


  Farr West                            Ogden                                    West Haven


  Fruit Heights                        Riverdale                                West Jordan


  Heber City                           Riverton                                 West Valley City


  Herriman                             Roy                                      Woods Cross


  Hyde Park                            Sandy City




  Ivins                                Santa Clara




Program funding is available statewide. If your community does not currently qualify for rebates,
contact your elected municipal representative and encourage them to adopt qualifying landscape
standards.
Landscape Policy
Communities can work with either a partner water district or the division to adopt landscape
standards that qualify for the statewide program. Communities are welcome and encouraged to
add additional standards based on local need.

Partner water districts include:

        •   Central Utah Water Conservancy District.
        •   Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District.
        •   Washington County Water Conservancy District.
        •   Weber Basin Water Conservancy District.
Communities within these districts’ service areas should work with their district to adopt
qualifying landscape standards.

Communities outside of a partner water district’s service area, including unincorporated areas,
should work with the division. At minimum, the following water-efficient landscape ordinances
for new construction are required:

        •   No lawn on parking strips or areas less than eight feet in width in new residential
            development.
        •   No more than 50% of front and side yard landscaped area in new residential
            developments is lawn. Lawn limitations do not apply to small residential lots with
            less than 250 square feet of landscaped area.
        •   In new commercial, industrial, institutional, and multi-family development common
            area landscapes, lawn areas shall not exceed 20% of the total landscaped area,
            outside of active recreation areas.
Apply
Except for Washington County, the statewide landscape rebate program is facilitated
through Utah Water Savers. Expect more information in spring 2023.

Rebate information for Washington County residents is available on the Washington County
Water Conservancy District site.

Through state and district partnerships, eligible participants may receive up to $3 per square foot
of lawn replaced with waterwise landscaping. Rebate amount varies by location. Once your
application has been approved, you have up to one year to complete your landscaping project.
          ÿ,/45ÿ268ÿ(%(%
78   9 9 : ÿ< =>   ÿ? <  @=:     ÿA  9< BÿB  C9  ÿC9  <  B
7ÿ34 56ÿ3916ÿ 7967ÿ345467ÿ5 7ÿ16 7ÿ56 6 5 678ÿ1167ÿ 75ÿ136ÿ454541ÿ965ÿ1ÿ67641ÿ 56ÿ67 367
           ,04.,4ÿ350458ÿ.0#45 0DÿEÿFÿ,GG.0,0.


01ÿ3454678ÿ9 17ÿ636ÿ596ÿ15 ÿ 1ÿ36ÿ459ÿ78ÿ6 615ÿ1ÿ596ÿ54434ÿ 5647ÿ595ÿ6ÿ4 64 7ÿ5ÿ 56ÿ9676ÿ7 367
74144315ÿ3916ÿ9ÿ596ÿ1ÿ77ÿ1ÿ66767ÿ616ÿ1ÿ3 76ÿ596ÿ 1ÿ965ÿ471ÿ66358ÿÿ961 611ÿ966ÿ666ÿ67ÿ65
9556ÿ591ÿ16 ÿ ÿ67ÿ7ÿ34 56ÿ3916ÿ 7967ÿ 1ÿ345467ÿ5 7ÿ16 7ÿ56 6 5 678ÿ1167ÿ6ÿ73 41ÿ5ÿ45456
6367746ÿ965
16ÿ75 56ÿ47ÿ5ÿ636ÿ54434ÿ7 367ÿ459ÿ665541ÿ36ÿ01ÿ 564 456ÿ6417ÿ739ÿ7ÿ598ÿÿ7556ÿ459ÿ16ÿÿ596ÿ675ÿ11 ÿ41
  567ÿ41ÿ596ÿ1456ÿ55678ÿ 143445467ÿ96ÿ5ÿ136ÿ596ÿ61645ÿÿ36ÿ56 6 5 67ÿ459ÿ741ÿ634 7ÿ 56ÿÿ44541
ÿ16ÿ146745ÿÿ59ÿ75ÿ4ÿ !6ÿ5976ÿ6347417ÿ6746ÿÿ596ÿ76 4 4ÿ 5ÿ"!6ÿ#68ÿ596ÿ 675ÿ65451ÿ6ÿ41ÿ59ÿ356ÿ41ÿ596
15961ÿ 5ÿÿ596ÿ7556ÿ96ÿ676 3967ÿ76ÿ$%ÿ76177ÿ5ÿ1&6ÿ596ÿ4334 56ÿ41ÿ46ÿ35417ÿ59 9 5ÿ596ÿ6ÿ96ÿ 1ÿ595
164997ÿ 4156ÿÿ4 64 7ÿ7 367ÿ66ÿ 6ÿ1ÿ46ÿ591ÿ596ÿ 1ÿ !7' ÿ5ÿ(ÿ6667ÿ 6ÿ41ÿ59ÿ596ÿ54 6ÿ1
149554 6
)05*7ÿ4154546'6*6ÿÿ75ÿ41ÿÿ !41ÿ5ÿ1ÿÿ95ÿ7 6ÿ8ÿ1ÿ ÿ66ÿ596ÿ965ÿ ÿ596ÿ 1ÿ1ÿ961ÿ *6ÿ75141ÿ1ÿÿ18ÿ45*7
368+ÿ74ÿ6ÿ 59ÿ, 41ÿ- 6&.  8ÿÿ7535 ÿ676 396ÿ5ÿ596ÿÿ)/ 5ÿ6ÿ166ÿ5ÿ3!ÿÿ4154541ÿ459ÿ5ÿ5ÿ656 416ÿ596
675ÿ75 56ÿÿ ÿ76 4 4ÿ345467+
- 6&.  ÿ1ÿ596ÿ56 ÿ67 6ÿ596ÿ56 6 5 6ÿ1ÿ9 445ÿ41746ÿ46ÿ !7ÿ1ÿ41ÿ5964ÿ03615ÿ6746154ÿ67ÿ ÿ116ÿ59 9
 75ÿ41ÿ(%2$ÿ96ÿ7ÿ1&6ÿ9ÿ596ÿ7  141ÿ1736ÿ4 356ÿ4ÿ56 6 5 6ÿ 47418ÿ596ÿ 1ÿ595ÿ17ÿ6 36ÿ54 6
 1ÿ149554 6ÿ56 6 5 67ÿ661ÿ6ÿ591ÿ5667ÿ4ÿ3946ÿ5667ÿ46ÿ7968ÿ17ÿ1ÿ5  77ÿ35ÿ4!6ÿÿ7 ÿ36' 56ÿ67ÿ59 9
596ÿ158ÿ6 541ÿ ÿ541ÿ967ÿ41ÿ596ÿ667ÿ1ÿ341ÿ596ÿ4
                                                                            0123ÿ56ÿ738ÿ3897ÿ7397ÿ1 ÿ1ÿ1ÿ738ÿ9ÿ978ÿ97ÿ37ÿ38ÿ58ÿ58
                                                                            738ÿ9 ÿ738ÿ8778ÿ3897ÿ29ÿ8298ÿ75ÿ738ÿ975388ÿÿ989ÿ73ÿ9ÿ788
                                                                            927ÿ8ÿ9ÿ883518ÿ79ÿ3897ÿ258ÿ75ÿ738ÿ51 ÿ38ÿ71 ÿ2521 8ÿ7397
                                                                            9ÿ 718ÿ56ÿ88ÿ788ÿ9 ÿ9ÿÿ738ÿ57ÿ88278ÿ9ÿ75ÿ255ÿ7889718
                                                                             ÿ738ÿ97ÿ98ÿ98
                                                                            !" 879 ÿ35ÿ51 ÿ258ÿ927ÿ7889718ÿÿ2129ÿ65ÿ27ÿ98ÿ75
                                                                            83ÿ738ÿ8867ÿ9 ÿ257ÿ56ÿ7ÿ9 298ÿ8#ÿ9 ÿ$58%&'995ÿ!3
                                                                             9 ÿ18ÿ75ÿ8ÿ9ÿ98ÿ56ÿ138ÿ9 ÿ98ÿ5ÿÿ887975ÿ8ÿ9 ÿÿ5ÿ75
A>((ÿBDCEF=ÿ'DD(ÿCÿÿ?+,+)@ÿ$DFB""Dÿ'Eÿ.(DC                   88ÿ57ÿ56ÿ975ÿ9 ÿ5 6ÿ738ÿ9 298ÿÿ9ÿ9#
0CC(D(($L
                                                                            38ÿ98ÿ9ÿ1 38ÿ5ÿ(27ÿ)*ÿ+,+,ÿÿ738ÿ-519ÿ21719ÿ9 ÿ.587
ÿ9ÿ56ÿ738ÿ9ÿ9 ÿ8 879ÿ78ÿÿ738ÿ97ÿ98ÿ98
                                                                            0878555
                                                                            /0ÿ234ÿ56700ÿ7897:0ÿ5644;46<
$58%&'995ÿ65218ÿ5ÿ68ÿ9ÿ9 ÿ738ÿ9-9287ÿ83 5355 ÿ73513517ÿ738ÿ97ÿ98ÿ98=ÿ>178ÿ?57387@ÿ58ÿA89ÿ?5173897@
0 98ÿB7ÿ?5173&2879@ÿ5173 8ÿ?57387@ÿ9 ÿ19ÿ>518ÿ?573897@ÿC923ÿ52975ÿ39ÿ)+ÿ85ÿ7397ÿ8918ÿ7889718ÿ9
31 7=ÿÿ73ÿ738ÿ9ÿ9 ÿÿÿ738ÿ8 879ÿ989ÿ$58%&'995ÿ99%8ÿ51 ÿ258ÿÿ9ÿ),&878ÿ9878ÿ951 ÿ8923ÿ85ÿ1
978 78ÿ98ÿ75ÿ87978ÿ738ÿ828798ÿ56ÿ738ÿ556ÿ9887ÿ788ÿ5ÿ7169ÿ38ÿ651 ÿ7397ÿ738ÿ58ÿ7169ÿÿ9ÿ8ÿ989ÿ738ÿ58ÿ738
7889718




  A>((ÿBDCEF=ÿBD(F'ÿ$(0CG&'DD(
  38ÿ6388ÿ98ÿ56ÿ738ÿÿ958ÿ9ÿ9ÿ?37@ÿ9 ÿ9ÿ8 879ÿ989ÿ?8H@ÿ951 ÿ58ÿA89ÿ9ÿ398ÿ887ÿ295ÿ25898I738ÿ9ÿ39ÿ9ÿ58ÿ58ÿÿ739ÿÿ738ÿ8 879
  989ÿ38ÿ2958ÿ61828ÿ738ÿ887ÿ51 ÿ16928ÿ7889718


38ÿ99%8ÿ295ÿ258ÿÿ79ÿ3575ÿ56ÿ738ÿÿ958ÿ8923ÿ85ÿ73ÿ9ÿ6388ÿ8ÿ38ÿ18ÿ5H98ÿ7397ÿ2921978ÿ738ÿ989ÿ7397ÿ788
5 71278ÿ738ÿÿ38ÿ651 ÿ7397ÿ738ÿ58ÿ58ÿ738ÿ9 298ÿ738ÿ35778ÿ738ÿ978ÿ7889718ÿ38ÿ58ÿ295ÿ258ÿ738ÿ58ÿ398
8128ÿ7889718
38ÿ91735ÿ88278ÿ7388ÿ75ÿ8ÿ7889718ÿ9 ÿ31 7ÿ8828ÿ8788ÿ738ÿ9ÿ9 ÿ83 5355 ÿ38ÿ88ÿ18ÿ3588ÿ7397
7169ÿ39ÿ89ÿ738ÿ98ÿ927ÿ5ÿ9ÿ7889718ÿ9ÿ788ÿF7ÿ88ÿ251787178ÿ82918ÿ56ÿ738ÿ8828ÿ8788ÿ9ÿ7889718ÿ9
8288ÿ7889718ÿA8288ÿ7889718ÿÿ35ÿ319ÿ688ÿ738ÿ8587ÿJ ÿ9ÿ7889718ÿ31 7ÿ9 ÿ59ÿ9 975ÿ9ÿ69275
 75ÿ35ÿ256579 8ÿ8ÿ98
!J8ÿ K7ÿ8918ÿ319ÿ25657ÿÿ73ÿ71 ÿ17ÿ8ÿ5ÿ7397ÿ738ÿ9517ÿ56ÿ59ÿ9 975ÿ5ÿ51ÿÿ39ÿ9ÿÿ927ÿ5ÿ738ÿ8288
7889718#ÿ9 ÿ$58%&'995ÿ!C8ÿ6ÿ738ÿ9ÿ7889718ÿÿ738ÿ98ÿ8ÿ688ÿ123ÿ2558ÿ1 8ÿ738ÿ398ÿ56ÿ9ÿ788ÿ82918ÿ7ÿ52ÿ58ÿ56
738ÿ9 975#
                              01232ÿ567893ÿ5 62 9 ÿ27 662
                              3ÿÿÿÿ!"ÿ#ÿ$ÿÿÿ% ÿ1 ÿ#&ÿ'



()*+,ÿ./,0ÿ12*33/34
  56ÿ7$ÿÿ89ÿÿ8:ÿ8"#ÿ8"9ÿ:"ÿÿ ÿ!ÿ"!;ÿÿÿ$6ÿ8ÿÿ#ÿ"$
9#ÿ:"ÿÿÿ'
<9=ÿÿÿ&#ÿÿÿ8ÿ#&ÿ"ÿ;ÿÿ!ÿ!ÿÿ'ÿ> ÿ5"9ÿÿ9ÿ8ÿ"ÿ9ÿ"ÿÿ?ÿ8ÿÿ 8ÿ
#ÿÿ57ÿÿ"?@ÿ8ÿ"ÿ8ÿ0&6ÿ#!ÿ!ÿ;9ÿÿÿA'ÿ<9=ÿÿÿ8ÿ"#ÿÿÿ#
ÿ$ÿ#&ÿ8ÿ;86ÿ8ÿ=ÿÿÿ8ÿÿ!ÿÿ&ÿ8ÿ8"ÿ; ÿ!ÿ#&ÿ8'@
7"ÿ089B&ÿ!ÿÿA=ÿ8#ÿ!ÿ""ÿ7ÿ8ÿ8$8ÿ>ÿ!ÿÿA=ÿ%"ÿ!ÿ>"ÿ%""ÿÿÿ!ÿ
##'ÿ3ÿ"ÿÿ##8ÿ;9ÿÿ%Cÿ70%56ÿ"#$ÿÿ99DEFGHIEÿ8ÿ68ÿ> ÿ8ÿÿÿA'



                                                             JKLMNKOÿMJNPQLK(




      R*S/T,*3/ÿU3/VW+T/,0ÿ1+WT/XW3,T                       MXV/TZ+ÿZ^ÿ,[Wÿ_Z3,[`                                     QW2Wb+*,/34ÿ,[WÿcdceÿQ*+WW+
      V/T/,ÿYÿMT/*ÿQ*)1UTÿ/3ÿ(ZU,[                          (,W1[*3/WÿaW4*0W                                          P)1*.,ÿMf*+Xÿ+W./1/W3,T
      \Z+W*                                                 ; ÿDIÿ ÿ                                        ; ÿDIÿ ÿ
      ; ÿDIÿ ÿ                                    68ÿ ]                                               68ÿ ]
      68ÿ ]
Adjournment
Council Meeting
  6:30 p.m.
     Call to Order
  Pledge of Allegiance
Council Meeting
   Minutes
OPENING CEREMONIES
 DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT

 Council in Attendance:

 Philip Markham, District #1
 Pamela Cotter, District #2
 Rosalba Dominguez, District #3 (Excused)
 Diane Turner, District #4 (Conducting)
 Garry Hrechkosy, District #5
 Jennifer Kennedy, Council Director (Excused)
 Pattie Johnson, Council Office Administrator III
 Crystal Brown, Officer Administrator

 Administrative Staff in Attendance:

 Brett A. Hales, Mayor
 Doug Hill, Chief Administrative Office
 Tammy Kikuchi, Chief Communication Officer
 G.L. Critchfield, City Attorney
 Brooke Smith, City Recorder
 Brenda Moore, Finance and Administration Director
 Craig Burnett, Police Chief
 Joey Mittelman, Fire Chief
 Greg Bellon, Interim General Manager of Power
 Bruce Turner, Power Operations Manager
 Matt Youngs, Power Energy Services Compliance Manager
 Jared Hall, Community and Economic Development Director
 Kim Sorensen, Parks and Recreation Director
 Kim Fong, Library Director
 Robert White, IT Service Director
 Ben Gray, Sr. IT Technician
 Laura Bown, Purchasing Agent
 Wendy Saunders, Passport Agent

 Others in Attendance:
 Charles Turner, Lawrence Horman, Clark Bullen, Sheri Van Bibber, Jay Van Bibber, Dave Carr, Harold
 Saunders,
 Opening Ceremonies

 Call to Order – Councilmember Turner called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.

 The audience was invited to recite the Pledge of Allegiance led by Sheri Van Bibber.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
 1. Council Meeting - March 7, 2023
       MOTION

       Councilmember Cotter moved to approve the Council Meeting on March 7, 2023. The
       motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Hrechkosy.

       Roll Call:
       Ayes: Councilmember Markham, Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Turner,
       Councilmember Hrechkosy
       Excused: Councilmember Dominguez

       Motion passes 4-0
SPECIAL RECOGNITION
 1. Employee of the Month - Wendy Saunders, Diane Turner and Mayor Hales presenting.
       Councilmember Turner introduced Wendy Saunders, as the March recipient of Employee of the
       Month. Wendy Saunders is the AM Passport Agent for Murray City who consistently went
       above and beyond her duties to ensure that clients received the best customer service
       possible. She received a certificate; a $50 gift card; and her name will appear on the plaque
       located in the Council Chambers.

       Mayor Hales shared a personal story about the first time he met Wendy and expressed
       gratitude and appreciation for the kindness she showed to him.

       Brooke Smith, City Recorder is Wendy Saunders' supervisor. She said Wendy Saunders showed
       exceptional dedication and commitment to her work. Wendy was very reliable and treated
       everyone with respect and kindness when they came to City Hall. She also demonstrated great
       patience when helping applicants fill out difficult forms. During her time on the team, Wendy
       processed approximately 3000 new applications and photos, assisted over 500 people with
       renewing their passports, and helped over 500 walk-in clients. Her positive attitude and fun
       energy created an enjoyable work environment for her colleagues. Wendy was a valuable asset
       to the organization, and her contributions were greatly appreciated.

       Wendy Saunders introduced her spouse and thanked the council and Mayor for the special
       recognition. Wendy loves to travel, and she recalled when she applied for the job online she
       had the desire to help people get their passports, so they could travel and explore.

       Councilmembers thanked Wendy Saunders for her service and stated they appreciate her
       being a part of Murray City.
 2. Consideration of a Joint Resolution for Child Abuse Prevention., Mayor Hales and Sheri Van Bibber
    presenting.
       Sheri Van Bibber was invited to the podium by Mayor Hales. Mayor Hales read into the record
       the proposed Joint Resolution.

       The resolution acknowledged the importance of investing in the welfare, safety, and
       livelihood of children in the city. It also recognized the responsibility of all Murray citizens to
       protect children and strengthen families, as child abuse is a serious problem that affects the
       entire community. The resolution highlighted the Murray Exchange Club's positive
       contributions to the city, and called upon citizens to become more aware of child abuse and
       actively support parents in raising their children in a safe and nurturing environment. In
       support of the Murray
       Exchange Club's efforts, the city of Murray agreed to fly the Child Abuse Prevention Flag in
       front of City Hall from April 1st through April 30th. The resolution commended the Murray
       Exchange Club for their continued efforts to help families break free from the vicious cycle of
       child abuse and emphasized that all children deserve to grow up in a safe and nurturing
       environment to reach their full potential.

       MOTION
       Councilmember Hrechkosy moved to adopt the Joint Resolution for Child Abuse Prevention.
       The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Markham.

       Roll Call:
       Ayes: Councilmember Markham, Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Turner,
       Councilmember Hrechkosy
       Excused: Councilmember Dominguez

       Motion passes 4-0

       Mayor Hales thanked Sheri Van Bibber for her dedication to the youth program and child abuse
       prevention. He expressed gratitude for her contributions to the city and praised her
       involvement in various areas beyond child abuse prevention.

       During the meeting, Sheri Van Bibber expressed her gratitude towards Murray city and the
       council for their support of the youth program. The Murray Exchange Club, which has been
       active since 2001, focuses on city service and Americanism. They give out American flags
       during the parade, organize events like the childhood abuse prevention campaign, and support
       various groups such as the YWCA. They also host the Haunted Woods in Murray City, whose
       proceeds go towards preventing child abuse. Last year, the event attracted about 12,000
       people and raised $26,000 which was donated to programs that support the prevention of
       child abuse. The speaker discussed statistics related to child abuse and neglect and
       mentioned that the Exchange Club works with hospitals to provide services to families that are
       deemed to be at risk.

       Councilmembers expressed gratitude and praised the efforts of Sheri Van Bibber who
       spearheaded the events every year.

       Councilmember Hrechkosy emphasized the importance of paying attention and listening in
       order to identify potential cases of abuse and make a positive impact.
CITIZEN COMMENT(S)
Those wishing to have their comments read into the record may send an email by 5:00 p.m. the day prior to
the meeting date to city.council@murray.utah.gov. Comments are limited to three minutes or less
(approximately 300 words for emails) and must include your name and address.
 The meeting was open for public comment.

 Lawrence Horman

    Lawrence Horman introduced himself and advocated for the homeless during a presentation. He
    mentioned his personal connection to the issue and noted that child abuse often leads to
    homelessness. He hoped that someday there would be a similar effort to address homelessness as
    there is for child abuse. He suggested getting acknowledgment from state and national legislatures
    during the time when they are in session and advocating for funding to help find solutions. He also
    emphasized the importance of taking a housing-first approach to provide stability and help homeless
    people get back on their feet.

 Clark Bullen

    Clark Bullen from District Three spoke about the great things Murray city has to offer, including the
    Exchange Club, Murray Youth Community Council, and the Murray Power Department. He also
    mentioned the proposed power rate increase of 9% and his concerns about its impact on citizens who
    are already feeling the effects of increased costs for necessities like water, sewer, groceries, and
    gasoline. He suggested reevaluating the increase to a smaller percentage and implementing yearly
    increases of 1%. He encouraged the council to consider this option and also to re-look at the Supply
    Cost Adjustment (SCA) as referred to in section 15.20.240 of the city code to fill the gap and go up to a
    higher rate cap so that rates don't have to be permanently increased.

 No additional citizen comments were given, and the open citizen comment period was closed.
CONSENT AGENDA
None scheduled.
PUBLIC HEARING(S)
Staff, sponsor presentations, and public comments will be given prior to Council action on the following
matter. The Council Meeting Agenda Packet can be found HERE.
 1. Consider a resolution approving the donation of city services and/or nonmonetary assistance to the
    Navajo Tribal Utility Authority's ''Light Up Navajo'' initiative project., Bruce Turner presenting.
       PRESENTATION

       Bruce Turner presented the proposed resolution requesting the donation of city services and/
       or non-monetary assistance to the Navajo Tribal Utility Authority's ''Light Up Navajo'' initiative
       project.

       The purpose of this city service trip initiative was launched to expedite electrification projects
       within the Navajo Nation and to train the apprentices and one foreman in building power lines
       from scratch, which is something they do not get to do in their regular work. The crew would
       build power lines in Tuba City, which would help the people there immensely. Bruce Turner had
       gone on a previous trip in 2021 and witnessed how happy the people were to have power for
       the first time in their life. He believed that despite the cost, the benefits of the trip were tenfold.

       CITIZEN COMMENTS

       The Public Hearing was open for citizen comment.

       No citizen comments were given, and the open public comment period was closed.

       MOTION
       Councilmember Markham moved to adopt the resolution approving the donation of city
       services and/or non-monetary assistance to the Navajo Tribal Utility Authority's ''Light Up
       Navajo'' initiative project. The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Cotter.

       Roll Call:
       Ayes: Councilmember Markham, Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Turner,
       Councilmember Hrechkosy
       Excused: Councilmember Dominguez

       Motion passes 4-0

       The mayor thanked Bruce Turner for enlightening them about the trainee program and the
       benefits it provides to city staff.

       Councilmembers express their appreciation for the program and note the added benefit of
       blessing other people's lives.
BUSINESS ITEM(S)
 1. Consider a resolution authorizing the execution of an interlocal cooperation agreement between the
    City and the Board of Education of the Murray City School District regarding the conveyance by the
    City of real property of which the City will continue to own, operate, and maintain the Murray City
    Library. G.L. Critchfield presenting.


       City Attorney, G.L. Critchfield discussed the history of a ground lease between the city and
       school district for a library building. The lease was initially for 50 years and renewed for
       another 50 years, with an expiration date of December 4, 2091.

       The school district transferred the land to the city to build the library and financed the building's
       construction with bonds. When the bonds were paid off in 2013, the city notified the school
       district that they could exercise their option to take back the property. The land is owned by the
       school district, but the building is owned by the city.

       The first item on the agenda was to convey the land back to the school district, which required
       signing an agreement and sending it to the title company.

       The second agreement was the ground lease, which began in 1991 and has an expiration date
       of December 4, 2041, and included provisions for notice and payment if either party wanted to
       vacate or keep the building.

       The district needs to give five years' notice to take back the building after the first 50 years. If
       they don't give notice, the city can stay there for another 50 years. If the city gives notice, they
       can vacate at the same time. If the district gives notice, they pay the market value for the
       building at that time.

       Councilmember Markham asked if there was any exchange of monetary value for the ground
       lease. Attorney Critchfield replied there is an agreement in place for one dollar per year.

       MOTION

       Councilmember Cotter moved to adopt the resolution authorizing the execution of an interlocal
       cooperation agreement between the City and the Board of Education of the Murray City School
       District regarding the conveyance by the City of real property which the City will continue to
       own, operate, and maintain the Murray City Library. The motion was SECONDED by
       Councilmember Hrechkosy.

       Roll Call:
       Ayes: Councilmember Markham, Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Turner,
       Councilmember Hrechkosy
       Excused: Councilmember Dominguez

       Motion passes 4-0
 2. Consider a resolution authorizing the execution of an interlocal cooperation agreement between the
    City and the Board of Education of the Murray City School District to provide for a ground lease of
    property owned by the board of education of the Murray City School District Located at 166 East
    5300 South Street. G.L. Critchfield presenting.


       MOTION

       Councilmember Hrechkosy moved to adopt the resolution authorizing the execution of an
       interlocal cooperation agreement between the City and the Board of Education of the Murray
       City School District to provide for a ground lease of property owned by the board of education
       of the Murray City School District Located at 166 East 5300 South Street. The motion was
       SECONDED by Councilmember Markham.

       Roll Call:
       Ayes: Councilmember Markham, Councilmember Cotter, Councilmember Turner,
       Councilmember Hrechkosy
       Excused: Councilmember Dominguez

       Motion passes 4-0
MAYOR'S REPORT AND QUESTIONS
 Mayor Hales thanked the council for making tough decisions and asking questions throughout the
meeting. He also reported that the power supply for the new city hall was coming from Taiwan but was
delayed, and the furniture for City Hall is being delivered. He praised the public works department for
being ready with sandbags and reported that rain barrels were available for purchase through public
works. He also announced that the golf course superintendent, Dave Carruth, was retiring after 27 years of
service and a new superintendent, Jason Lundberg, had been selected. A retirement party for Dave
Carruth is scheduled for March 31 at City Hall.

ADJOURNMENT
The meeting was adjourned at 7:18 p.m.
 Special
Recognition
                                   City Council/Mayor

                                   Employee of the Month - Bruce
                                   Holyoak

                                   ŽƵŶĐŝů DĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                   DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗April 18, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 ŵƉůŽǇĞĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ DŽŶƚŚ ƌĞĐŽŐŶŝƚŝŽŶ
Jennifer Kennedy
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  /ŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶĂů ŽŶůǇ
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         ZĞĐŽŐŶŝƚŝŽŶ &Žƌŵ
Garry Hrechkosy
Brett Hales
Kim Sorensen        Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        See Employee of the Month Recognition Form
Presentation


Is This Time
Sensitive
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
April 4, 2023
                             EMPLOYEE OF THE MONTH RECOGNITION



 DEPARTMENT:                                          DATE:

Parks and Recreation                                          3/29/2023


 NAME of person to be recognized:                        Submitted by:

Bruce Holyoak                                                   Kim Sorensen


 DIVISION AND JOB TITLE:

Parks, Park Superintendent
 YEARS OF SERVICE:
26 years


 REASON FOR RECOGNITION:

Bruce Holyoak currently serves as the Park Superintendent. He has been the
Superintendent for five years. The Park Superintendent has a large area of
responsiblity. Bruce takes pride in his work and always represents Murray with pride.
Most of the work he does is never highlighted, or understood, but if not completed many
are impacted

This winter has been a difficult one with snow removal. Bruce has worked hard and
many hours to coordinate and make sure park facilities, recreation builidings, senior rec
center, trails, etc are clear of snow and safe for public use. This is a small example of
the behind the scenes service he oversees.

Employee of the Month award is well deserving to Mr. Holyoak.




 COUNCIL USE:

 MONTH/YEAR HONORED
   Special
Presentations
    Special
Presentation #1
                                   DĂǇŽƌ

                                   ϮϬϮ4ƵĚŐĞƚ


                                   ŽƵŶĐŝůDĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                   DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗Ɖƌŝůϭ8͕ϮϬϮ3


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 WƌĞƐĞŶƚƚŚĞDĂǇŽƌΖƐƉƌŽƉŽƐĞĚďƵĚŐĞƚĨŽƌĨŝƐĐĂůǇĞĂƌϮϬϮ4͘
ƌĞƚƚ,ĂůĞƐ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  ĐĐĞƉƚƚŚĞDĂǇŽƌΖƐďƵĚŐĞƚĨŽƌĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ͘
801-264-2600
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         WƌŽƉŽƐĞĚĨŝƐĐĂůǇĞĂƌϮϬϮ4ďƵĚŐĞƚ
Brenda Moore

                    Budget Impact



                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        After consultations with department heads, the Budget Officer,
Presentation             Brenda Moore has created the budget for Murray City.
                         Budget Officer, Brenda Moore, will present the budget proposal
                         to the Council, who will deliberate before approval.
Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
Ɖƌŝů4͕ϮϬϮ3
    Special
Presentation #2
                                    Mayor's Office

                                    Mayor and Budget Officer Fiscal
                                    Year 2023-2024 Tentative Budget

                                    Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗April 18, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Acknowledge receipt of the Fiscal Year 2023-2024 tentative
Mayor Brett Hales        budget from the mayor and budget officer.
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Consider approval of Resolution
801-264-2600
                    Attachments
Presenters
                        Resolution
Brenda Moore, Finance
and Administration
Director              Budget Impact
                        n/a


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        Mayor Brett Hales and budget officer Brenda Moore are
Presentation             submitting their fiscal year 2023-2024 tentative budget to the
                         budget and finance committee of the Murray City Council for
20 minutes               their review and consideration.
Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
April 4, 2023
                           RESOLUTION NO. ____________


      A RESOLUTION ACKNOWLEDGING RECEIPT OF THE FISCAL YEAR
      2023-2024 TENTATIVE BUDGET FROM THE MAYOR AND THE
      BUDGET OFFICER, AND REFERRING THE MAYOR’S TENTATIVE
      BUDGET FOR REVIEW AND CONSIDERATION TO THE BUDGET AND
      FINANCE COMMITTEE OF THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL.


        WHEREAS, Section 10-6-111 of the Utah Code requires that on or before the
first regularly scheduled meeting of the governing body in May of the current fiscal year,
the Mayor and the City’s Budget Officer shall prepare the Mayor’s tentative budget for
each fund for which a budget is required for the ensuing fiscal year; and

      WHEREAS, the Mayor and the City’s Budget Officer, Brenda Moore, submitted
the Mayor’s tentative budget for fiscal year 2023-2024 on April 18, 2023 to the Murray
City Municipal Council; and

      WHEREAS, the Murray City Municipal Council wants to acknowledge receipt of
the Mayor’s tentative budget and refer it to the Budget and Finance Committee.

       NOW, THEREFORE, be it resolved by the Murray City Municipal Council as
follows:

      1. It hereby acknowledges receipt of the fiscal year 2023-2024 Mayor’s tentative
         budget from the Mayor and the City’s Budget Officer, Brenda Moore, on April
         18, 2023.

      2. The submitted Mayor’s tentative budget is hereby referred to the Budget and
         Finance Committee of the Murray City Municipal Council for review and
         consideration.

      DATED this _____ day of ________, 2023.

                                         MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                         _____________________________________
                                         Garry Hrechkosy, Chair
ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
          Citizen
         Comments
Limited to three minutes, unless otherwise approved by Council
Business Items
Business Item #1
                                     ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŐĞŶĐǇ
                                     &ŝŶĂŶĐĞ Θ ĚŵŝŶŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶ
                                     ŶƚĞƌƉƌŝƐĞ &ƵŶĚƐ dƌĂŶƐĨĞƌ ZĞƉĞĂů
                                     ĨŽƌ ^ŽůŝĚ tĂƐƚĞ ĂŶĚ ^ƚŽƌŵ tĂƚĞƌ

                                     ŽƵŶĐŝů DĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                     DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗April 18, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Repeal Section B of ordinance 7.04.020, and 13.48.060
ƌĞŶĚĂ DŽŽƌĞ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  consideration
801-264-2513
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         KƌĚŝŶĂŶĐĞ
ƌĞŶĚĂ DŽŽƌĞ

                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        The purpose of this request is to repeal the section 7.04.020 and
Presentation             13.48.060 which as written requires the City to do an operational
                         transfer from the Solid Waste and Storm water funds to the
ϭϬ DŝŶƵƚĞƐ               General Fund. We stopped doing the transfer from the Storm
Is This Time             water fund in FY2019, and from the Solid Waste Fund in FY2021.
                         It recently came to my attention that the ordinance required the
Sensitive                transfers, so I would like to change the code to match our
No                       current practice.
Mayor’s Approval



Date
April 10, 2023
                             ORDINANCE NO. 23-__


      AN ORDINANCE REPEALING PARAGRAPH (B) OF SECTIONS
      7.04.020 AND 13.48.060 OF THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL CODE
      RELATING TO OPERATIONAL TRANSFERS OF THE SOLID WASTE
      AND RECYCLING FUND AND THE STORMWATER FUND.

      BE IT ENACTED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:

        Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to repeal paragraph
(B) of sections 7.04.020 and 13.48.060 of the Murray City Municipal Code
relating to operational transfers of the solid waste and recycling fund and the
stormwater fund.

      Section 2. Repeal Paragraph (B) of Sections 7.04.020. Paragraph (B) of
Sections 7.04.020 and 13.48.060 of the Murray City Municipal Code shall be
repealed as follows:

                            Chapter 7.04
              SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING MANAGEMENT
...

7.04.020: FUND:

...

B. Annual Transfer: Beginning fiscal year 2014, there shall be, each fiscal year,
an operational transfer from the City's Solid Waste and Recycling Management
Fund to the City's General Fund of eight percent (8.00%) of total operating
revenue as used and defined in the Utah Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act. Such
transfer shall not prohibit acts and other services being rendered to other
departments of the City.

CB. Investments, Cash And Cash Equivalents Reserves (Reserve): The reserve
level for the Solid Waste and Recycling Management Fund (the "fund") is twenty
five percent (25%) of operating revenue ("reserve level"). This reserve level is to
provide cash liquidity and operational stability in case of situations such as
natural disasters, equipment failure, economic uncertainty, and weather
variations. As a result of onetime expenses, the reserve level may fluctuate,
provided however that the reserve level should not be drawn upon for ongoing
operational expenses. If reserves are drawn below the reserve level, the fund will
replenish reserves to the reserve level within five (5) years. (Ord. 16-01)
                                 Chapter 13.48
                             STORM WATER UTILITY
...

13.48.060: STORMWATER FINANCIAL STANDARDS:
...

  B. Transfer For Administrative Services: Transfer for administrative services
to the General Fund shall be in an amount not to exceed the value of the actual
services rendered. Such amount shall be set not less than every five (5) years by
the City Council after the performance of an independent audit to determine the
value of the service performed.

  CB. Investments, Cash And Cash Equivalents Reserves (Reserve): The
minimum reserve level for the Stormwater Utility Enterprise Fund (the "fund") is
twenty five percent (25%) of operating revenue ("reserve level"). This level of
reserves provides the minimum cash liquidity and operational stability in case of
natural disasters, equipment failure, economic uncertainty and weather
variations. As a result of onetime expenses, the reserve level may fluctuate,
provided however that the reserve level should not be drawn upon for ongoing
operational expenses. If reserves are drawn below the minimum reserve level,
the fund will replenish reserves to the reserve level within five (5) years. (Ord. 17-
40)

   Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first
publication.


     PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal
Council on this ___ day of , 2023.


                                           MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                           ________________________________
                                           Garry Hrechkosy, Chair

ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved
                                 DATED this ____ day of __________, 2023.



                                                                  _________
                                       Brett A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:


_________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder

                      CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

      I hereby certify that this Ordinance, or a summary hereof, was published

according to law on the ___ day of _________, 2023.



                                       ____________________________
                                       Brooke Smith, City Recorder
                      CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

      I hereby certify that this Ordinance, or a summary hereof, was published

according to law on the ___ day of _________, 2023.



                                       ____________________________
                                       Brooke Smith, City Recorder
Business Item #2
                                    City Council

                                    Interlocal Agreement with Granite
                                    School District for Music Education

                                    Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗April 18, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Consider an agreement to provide matching funds to Granite
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ<ĞŶŶĞĚǇ         School District for music education
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Approve agreement for Granite School District to receive funds
801-264-2622             for music education
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Memo, FY22-23 Budget Addendum, Interlocal Agreement,
Jennifer Kennedy         Resolution
                    Budget Impact
                         $16,500


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for
Presentation             This is a request from Granite School District to receive funds for
                         music education.

Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
April 5, 2023
                                                               Phil Markham, District 1          Diane Turner, District 4
          MURRAY CITY CORPORATION                              Pam Cotter, District 2            Garry Hrechkosy, District 5
          CITY COUNCIL
                                                               Rosalba Dominguez, District 3     Jennifer Kennedy
                                                                                                 Council Executive Director


                                               MEMORANDUM

TO:                Murray City Municipal Council

FROM:              Jennifer Kennedy, Council Executive Director

DATE:              March 16, 2023

RE:                Funding Request for Music Education

The budget for Fiscal Year 2022-2023 allocated the donation of up to $40,000 of matching funds
to Murray School District (MSD) for a music specialist position. On January 17, 2023, the City
Council approved a resolution authorizing an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the City
and Murray School District which appropriated $21,577.46 to MSD to assist with the hiring and
providing a Music Specialist and a District Music Trainer.

Since that time, several councilmembers have expressed an interest in donating funds to Granite
School District (GSD) as they also have schools within Murray City. On January 24, 2023, Doug
Hill, Chief Administrative Officer, sent an email to GSD notifying them of the potential
opportunity to receive matching funds for their music education programs.

We have received an official request form GSD for you to review. Since the Council awarded
$21,577.46 to MSD, there is still $18,422.54 that could be awarded to GSD for their music
education programs if the council chooses to do so.




      Murray City Center      5025 S State Street, Suite 112      Murray, Utah 84107           801-264-2622
  Murray City Annual Budget                                                                 Fiscal Year 2022/2023

  BUDGET ADDENDUM

Public hearings are required before the City waive fees, donates services, or provide funds/property to non‐profit
entities. To avoid the need for separate hearings throughout the year, the Mayor’s budget includes the following
annual or one‐time requests:

    1. Volunteers of America Donate funds for operation expenses at the Volunteers of America Center for Women
       and Children in Murray. Value: $10,000

    2. Murray Education Foundation Waive golf cart rental fees for annual tournament at Murray Parkway Golf
       Course. Value: $1,400

    3. Utah Community Action Reduce fees for Murray City utilities for low income residents based on HEAT
       qualifications. Value: $10,000

    4. American Legion Waive park rental fees for Easter Egg Hunt. Value: $225

    5. Utah Farm Bureau Farmers Market Waive park rental fees for Farmers Market. Value: $2,000

    6. Boys and Girls Club of Greater Salt Lake Donate funds for operation expenses at the Murray Boys and Girls
       Club. Value: $100,000

    7. Miss Murray Pageant Donate funds for scholarships and Murray City float and parade expenses. Value: $6,200

    8. Murray Area Chamber of Commerce Donate funds for operations and the youth chamber. Value: $24,600

    9. Murray Area Chamber of Commerce Waive golf cart rental fees for annual tournament at Murray Parkway
       Golf Course. Value: $1,400

    10. Economic Development Corporation of Utah Donate funds for operations. Value: $7,500

    11. Murray Symphony Orchestra Donate funds for operations. Value: $2,500

    12. Murray Concert Band Donate funds for operations. Value: $2,500

    13. Murray School District Donate matching funds for the music specialist position. Value: Up to $40,000

    14. Murray School District Provide water education through the National Energy Foundation and associated
        prizes. Value: $8,350

    15. Murray Exchange Club Waive park rental fees for Haunted Trail. Value: $975

    16. American Red Cross Waive park rental fees for up to 10 blood drives. Value: $1,000

    17. Utah Community Forest Council Provide labor assistance for the annual Utah State Tree Climbing competition.
        Value: Up to $2,000.




        Adopted August 9, 2022                                                                            Page 24
                                   RESOLUTION _____


       A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN INTERLOCAL COOPERATION
       AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY AND GRANITE SCHOOL
       DISTRICT (“DISTRICT”) RELATING TO MUSIC EDUCATION AND
       INSTRUCTION.

       WHEREAS, Title 11, Chapter 13, of the Utah Code provides that two or more
public agencies may enter into an agreement with one another for joint or cooperative
actions; and

      WHEREAS, the City and the District are “public agencies” as contemplated in
Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-101, et. seq., Interlocal Cooperation Act; and

        WHEREAS, the City wants to encourage music education and instruction in the
District; and

        WHEREAS, the City, subject to appropriation of funds by the City Council, wants
to allocate up to Sixteen Thousand Five Hundred Dollars and No Cents ($16,500.00) to
provide the District with music education opportunities within the District, subject to
certain terms and conditions; and

      WHEREAS, the Parties want to specify, in an Agreement, their respective
responsibilities with regard to the funds provided by the City to the District for music
education opportunities.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED , BY THE Murray City Municipal Council
as follows:

       1.     It hereby approves the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement, in substantially
              the form attached hereto.

       2.     The Interlocal Cooperation Agreement is in the best interest of the City.

       3.     Mayor Brett A. Hales is hereby authorized to execute the Agreement on
              behalf of the City and act in accordance with its terms.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this _______ day of __________________ 2023.

                                           MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                           _____________________________________
                                           Garry Hrechkosy, Chair
ATTEST:



________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
         ATTACHMENT

(Interlocal Cooperation Agreement)
             INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
                         BETWEEN MURRAY CITY CORPORATION AND
                             THE GRANITE SCHOOL DISTIRCT
                                 For Music Education Support


       This Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (“Agreement”) is made and entered into this ____

day of ________________, 2023, by and between Murray City Corporation, a Utah municipal

corporation (the “City”) and the Granite School District, a political subdivision of the State of

Utah (the “District”).

                                           RECITALS

   1. The City and the District are “public agencies” authorized by the Utah Interlocal

       Cooperation Act, Title 11, Chapter 13 of the Utah Code, to enter into agreements with

       each other for joint and cooperative action which will enable them to make the most

       efficient use of their powers on a basis of mutual advantage.

   2. The City wants to encourage and support music education in the District.

   3. The City, subject to appropriation by the City Council, wants to allocate up to SIXTEEN

       THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS AND NO CENTS ($16,500.00) to

       provide the District assistance with music education opportunities within the District

       subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

   4. The Parties want to outline their respective responsibilities regarding the funds provided

       by the City to the District for such music education opportunities.

   NOW THEREFORE, based on the conditions herein, the Parties agree as follows:
                                     AGREEMENT

1. The City shall allocate up to SIXTEEN THOUSAND FIVE HUNDERD DOLLARS

   AND NO CENTS ($16,500.00) to the District for the remainder of the 2022-2023

   School Year and for the 2023-2024 School Year to provide assistance to the District for

   music education as further outlined below. This assistance is intended to help the District

   provide music-related instruction and equipment to students. City assistance shall be

   matched by the District at least 1:1 for verified expenses related to music education

   opportunities in the District.

2. On a semi-annual basis (July through December and January through June), the District

   shall forward to the City documentation of the actual expenses incurred by the District

   related to the music education opportunities provided for under this Agreement, and shall

   provide a written report showing that the conditions set forth in this Agreement have been

   met (the “Semi-Annual Reports”). The Semi-Annual Reports shall be submitted to the

   City by the 15th of the month following each reporting term (January 15th and July 15th,

   respectively).

3. Assistance from the City to the District is conditioned upon the funds being used

   consistent with what is listed in the Granite School District Funding Request, attached

   hereto as “Exhibit A”, and incorporated herewith.

4. Should the conditions set forth in this Agreement not be met to the reasonable satisfaction

   of the City, the City shall have no obligation to provide any financial assistance to the

   District, regardless of expenditures made by the District and regardless of whether the

   City previously approved the District’s request for assistance.
5. The District and the City are governmental entities under the Utah Governmental

   Immunity Act (“Act”). Therefore, consistent with the terms of the Act, the District and

   the City agree that each is responsible and liable for any wrongful or negligent acts which

   it commits or is committed by its agents or employees. Neither the District nor the City

   waives any defenses or limits of liability otherwise available under the Act and all other

   applicable laws and both the District and the City maintain all privileges, immunities and

   other rights granted by the Act and other applicable laws.

6. This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the

   subject matter hereof, and no statements, promises, or inducements made by either Party

   or agents for either Party that are not contained in this written contract shall be binding or

   valid; and this Agreement may not be enlarged, modified, or altered except in writing,

   and signed by the Parties.

7. The Parties mutually agree that funding will be allocated by the Parties as a part of their

   respective annual budgeting processes. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to

   bind the decision of the future legislative bodies of the City.

8. No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement.

9. The District and the City shall not subcontract, assign, or transfer any rights or duties

   under this Agreement without prior written consent of the other party.

10. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should any provision herein be

   deemed void, voidable, unenforceable, or invalid, such void, voidable, unenforceable, or

   invalid provision shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement.

11. This Agreement may be terminated early by either Party for any or no reason upon fifteen

   (15) days written notice of termination. Both Parties agree that the terminating Party's
   election to terminate this Agreement will not be deemed a termination for default nor will

   it entitle the other Party to any rights or remedies provided by law or this Agreement for

   breach of contract by the terminating Party, or any other claim or cause of action.

12. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the

   State of Utah.

                               (Signature Page to Follow)
      DATED as of the day and year first written above.



MURRAY CITY CORPORATION                          GRANITE SCHOOL DISTRICT



______________________________                   ________________________________
Brett A. Hales, Mayor                            Granite School District Superintendent

ATTEST:


______________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder

APPROVED AS TO FORM:


______________________________
G.L. Critchfield, City Attorney

APPROVED AS TO CONTENT:


______________________________
Parks and Recreation Department

APPROVED AS TO AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS:


______________________________
Finance Department
     EXHIBIT A

GRANITE SCHOOL DISTRICT
   FUNDING REQUEST
Elementary School Level Request

   •   Salary assistance for the 2023-2024 School Year for a Hired Music Assistant paid
       according to Granite School District’s pay schedule. Granite School District to match
       funds 1:1.

   •   Teaching Load for the Hired Music Assistant would be fourteen (14) class-sessions per
       week at Woodstock Elementary School and two (2) hours of prep-time each week.

   •   Funding for Standard BTS Music Kits. Each Music Kit includes an assortment of
       instruments such as recorders, drumheads, triangles, maracas, cymbals, mini drums, bell
       sets, rhythm sticks, blocks, jingle sticks, etc. Cost for a BTS Music is $3,500.00.

   •   In-Service training for the Hired Music Assistant to be provided through a professional
       learning community model in collaboration with the University of Utah.


Cottonwood High School Level Request

   •   Salary assistance for the remainder of the 2022-2023 School Year and the 2023-2024
       School Year for a Music Instructor to provide sectional and instrumental instruction with
       a focus on percussion according to Granit School District’s pay schedule. The Music
       Instructor will also support and provide assistance in other areas such as string,
       woodwinds, brass, guitar and piano accompaniment. Granite School District to match
       funds 1:1.

   •   In-Service training for the Music Instructor to be provided by the Cottonwood High
       School music faculty.
Adjournment
