Committee of the
 Whole Meeting
 June 6, 2023
                                    Murray City Municipal Council
                                   Committee of the Whole Meeting
                                               Notice
                                            June 6, 2023

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Murray City Municipal Council will hold a Committee
of the Whole meeting beginning at 4:30 p.m. on Tuesday, June 6, 2023 in the Conference Room #
107 located at Murray City Hall, 5025 South State Street, Murray, UT.

Meeting Agenda

4:30 p.m.          Committee of the Whole – Conference Room #107
                   Garry Hrechkosy conducting

Approval of Minutes
   Committee of the Whole – May 2, 2023
   Committee of the Whole – May 16, 2023

Discussion Items
    1. Attorney’s Office Report. G.L. Critchfield presenting. (30 minutes)
    2. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2022-2023 Budget Amendment. Brenda Moore presenting. (10
       minutes)
    3. Discussion on an ordinance amending Section 15.20.250 of the Murray City Municipal
       Code relating to Electrical Service Schedule 35 for Solar Rates. Greg Bellon and Matt
       Youngs presenting. (15 minutes)
    4. Discussion on an ordinance relating to the financial standards of the Solid Waste, Water,
       Wastewater, Stormwater, and Power Enterprise Funds. Phil Markham presenting. (15
       minutes)
    5. Discussion on adopting New City Hall Policies. Jennifer Kennedy presenting (5 minutes.)
    6. Discussion on City Council Travel Policy updates. Garry Hrechkosy presenting (20
       minutes)

Adjournment

NOTICE

Supporting materials are available for inspection on the Murray City website at www.murray.utah.gov.

Special accommodations for the hearing or visually impaired will be made upon a request to the office of the Murray City Recorder
(801-264-2663). We would appreciate notification two working days prior to the meeting. TTY is Relay Utah at #711.

Council Members may participate in the meeting via telephonic communication. If a Council Member does participate via
telephonic communication, the Council Member will be on speaker phone. The speaker phone will be amplified so that the other
Council Members and all other persons present in the Council Chambers will be able to hear all discussions.

On Friday, June 2, 2023, at 9:00 a.m., a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of the
Murray City Center, Murray, Utah. Copies of this notice were provided for the news media in the Office of the City Recorder. A
copy of this notice was posted on Murray City’s internet website www.murray.utah.gov. and the state noticing website at
http://pmn.utah.gov .
Murray City Council Agenda
June 6, 2023                                                 2




                             Jennifer Kennedy
                             Council Executive Director
                             Murray City Municipal Council
 Committee
of the Whole
   Minutes
                                      MURRAY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                       COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
                                             Meeting Minutes
                                          Tuesday, May 2, 2023
            Murray City Center - 5025 South State Street, Conference Room, Murray, Utah 84107

Attendance:
  Council Members and others:
  Garry Hrechkosy – Chair     District #5 – Excused
  Phil Markham – Vice Chair   District #1
  Pam Cotter                  District #2
  Rosalba Dominguez           District #3
  Diane Turner                District #4

  Brett Hales        Mayor                            Jennifer Kennedy City Council Executive Director
  Doug Hill          Chief Administrative Officer     Pattie Johnson   Council Administration
  Tammy Kikuchi      Chief Communications Officer     Joey Mittelman Fire Chief
  G.L. Critchfield   City Attorney                    Kim Fong         Library Director
  Julia Pehrson      Library Assistant Director       Brenda Moore     Finance Director
  Kim Sorensen       Parks and Recreation Director    Russ Kakala      Public Works Director
  Citizens

Conducting: Mr. Markham called the meeting to order at 4:45 pm.

Approval of Minutes: Committee of the Whole – April 4, 2023. Ms. Cotter moved to approve, and Ms.
Dominguez seconded the motion. All in favor 4-0.

Discussion Items:
  • Library Department Report. Library Director Kim Fong gave a presentation about the Murray
      Library. She shared about all programs held at the library for all ages, reviewed library events and
      activities like book clubs, art classes and wiggle time and explained others services like room use,
      public computers and circulation of all items including E-books, E-movies, and E-magazines. She
      discussed a new tablet program for children, new hotspots available for checkout and many other
      learning opportunities. She reviewed the new Murray Library app that will be launching in a couple
      of weeks and reported that a feasibility study is underway with the Murray City Senior Recreation
      Center. The results of the study would determine whether it would be possible to construct a
      combined library senior center facility on the current site of the senior center. Ms. Fong is working
      with a library architecture firm who is well acquainted with the new concept. Mr. Markham led a
      discussion about current book banning issues. Ms. Fong said the Murray library has not experience
      any of that activity as she believes the community has an understanding that the library is a place
      for everyone.

  •   Potential Enterprise Fund Code changes. Mr. Markham proposed that Code changes be made to
      the City’s Power, Water, Stormwater and Wastewater Funds. His hope was to ensure that all
      enterprise funds, most specifically the Power Fund, have the same framework in City Code. He said
      all enterprise funds should have a current master plan that is updated every five years, along with
      a required rate study that would also involve impact fees if any. This process would be similar to the
      recent proposal made when wastewater rates were increased. All pertinent information was
      brought to the City Council before any rate increase was considered. In addition, he said
      establishing criteria dealing with fund balances was also needed. He proposed that each fund be
      required to have a reserve account with at least 30% of the previous year’s revenues. Ms. Moore
      confirmed the proposed minimum amount of 30% was doable and that the Power Fund currently
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of May 2, 2023                              DRAFT                                                Page 2




       did not have these requirements in City Code. There was consensus that City attorneys would draft
       code language in an ordinance and bring it forward for consideration during a future public hearing.

  •    Rules and regulations for annexations. City Attorney G.L. Critchfield discussed State rules and
       regulations related to annexations. He explained how the process would begin with filing a notice
       of intent, then filing a petition, which is submitted to both the County and a city recorder to let them
       know that someone is requesting annexation. If required signatures are gathered for a petition to
       annex, the petition is brought to the city recorder where an initial decision to consider it is required
       within 14 days. He clarified that accepting the petition only allows analyzation of whether the
       annexation should even be considered or rejected. If a city decides to consider the annexation more
       time is given to study the details which is 30 days before a final vote takes place. In summary a
       petition for annexation can come rather quickly, but the State requires more time before a final
       decision is required. Ms. Dominguez confirmed there was currently an annexation request in its
       early stages. Mr. Critchfield agreed this specific petition would require a majority of the landowners
       involved, representing one third of the land value of an entire area. If it happens, he will inform the
       Council at a later time, but his hope was to educate the Council first about this process.

  •    Council Member compensation. Ms. Turner said the item was follow-up from the Council Initiatives
       Workshop held on February 15, 2023 when a discussion took place about whether to increase the
       pay of the Murray City Council. Currently, each member receives $17,079 per year. Ms. Turner
       would like to increase that amount to $20,000 per year, in addition to a $1,000 per term technology
       allowance. The funding would be used in lieu of the City providing Council Members with an iPad
       and would give Council Members the option to choose what technology they prefer.

       Ms. Dominguez pointed out the annual COLA (cost of living adjustment) brought the annual fiscal
       note of $14,605 up to $17,079. Ms. Moore confirmed $14,605 did not include retirement and taxes,
       so actually the pay comes to $18,986. She noted this was a 17.1% increase, but the largest increase
       City employees received to stay within a 5% average of pay was a 5.5% COLA. Ms. Turner felt city
       employees make more than Council Members and do not have the same responsibilities as the
       Council. Ms. Moore noted that most city employees work full time and that in a previous meeting
       it was shown that the Murray Council is currently paid within the average amount comparatively.

       Ms. Cotter requested that the item be tabled due to the absence of Mr. Hrechkosy. She said it was
       important to analyze his findings since he worked diligently to prepare graphic statistics that
       compared Murray’s council wages with other cities in the county. She felt the $1,798 per month
       allowance was good pay for a part time job; and with retirement benefits and health insurance
       options she could not support the wage increase. After further discussion there was consensus to
       move the item forward to a council meeting where Mr. Hrechkosy could be present to share his
       findings, then all Council Members could vote on the matter.

  •    A resolution authorizing and ratifying the execution of an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
       between the City and Salt Lake County to provide election services to assist the City in Conducting
       the City’s 2023 Municipal Election. Mr. Critchfield presented the agreement and scope of services
       that are necessary when elections are conducted in Murray with help from the County. He explained
       that the agreement came to the City in February of 2023, but due to an oversight, it was signed
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of May 2, 2023                             DRAFT                                              Page 3




       before the Council saw it. Murray has contracted with Salt Lake County Elections Division for several
       years to save money and would hold elections at City Hall for the 2023 primary and general
       municipal elections. The Council would consider the resolution to authorize and ratify the execution
       of the agreement in the council meeting.

  •    City Council Travel Policy updates. Mr. Markham proposed that in the absence of Mr. Hrechkosy
       who planned to share detailed information regarding the travel policy of the City Council, the
       discussion be postponed until the May 16, 2023 Committee of the Whole meeting. There was
       agreement to postpone the discussion.

Adjournment: 5:38 p.m.
                                                                Pattie Johnson
                                                                Council Office Administrator III
                                      MURRAY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                       COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
                                             Meeting Minutes
                                          Tuesday, May 16, 2023
            Murray City Center - 5025 South State Street, Conference Room, Murray, Utah 84107


Attendance:
  Council Members and others:
  Garry Hrechkosy – Chair     District #5
  Phil Markham – Vice Chair   District #1
  Pam Cotter                  District #2
  Rosalba Dominguez           District #3
  Diane Turner                District #4

 Brett Hales      Mayor                            Jennifer Kennedy City Council Executive Director
 Doug Hill        Chief Administrative Officer     Pattie Johnson   Council Administration
 Brooke Smith     City Recorder                    Crystal Brown    Council Administration
 Tammy Kikuchi Chief Communications Officer        Joey Mittelman Fire Chief
 G.L. Critchfield City Attorney                    Craig Burnett    Police Chief
 Anthony Semone NeighborWorks                      Brenda Moore     Finance Director
 Kim Sorensen     Parks and Recreation Director    Zac Smallwood    Public Works Director
 Loran Pasalich   Chamber of Commerce

Conducting: Mr. Hrechkosy called the meeting to order at 4:15 pm.

Approval of Minutes: Committee of the Whole – April 18, 2023. Ms. Cotter moved to approve, and Mr.
Markham seconded the motion. All in favor 5-0.

Discussion Items:
• Presentation of Public Works Needs Assessment and Master Plan.
      Public Works Director Russ Kakala and Chris Childs with Galloway and Company gave a presentation
      about future redevelopment plans for all Murray Public Works facilities. Mr. Kakala said the City
      contracted with Galloway in September of 2022 after knowing the City’s Community and Economic
      Development department would move to the new city hall. Mr. Childs discussed the Needs
      Assessment and Master Plan that is a proposal to improve the entire public works site.

     He reviewed project goals that included consolidating administrative offices, relocating a natural
     gas fueling station, increase space for Fleet and the sign shop, improve traffic flow and parking on
     the site, and constructing new buildings for the stormwater and wastewater divisions. Other facility
     buildings would be either new construction or remodeled. There was a discussion about the
     condition of all existing buildings to show that they do not meet requirements for disability access,
     seismic regulations, and other safety standards. The existing layout was compared with a proposed
     plan to show the amount of space needed for the Streets division and the equipment storage
     building. He presented Options A and B, which included steps for creating more storage, demolition,
     new construction, remodeling, relocation of facilities and parking plans. Conceptual drawings were
     displayed and floor plans for a new admin building were studied. Mr. Childs provided cost estimate
     information for both options and noted that the cost to remodel the existing administration facility
     was about the same as constructing a new and more seismic building.

     Mr. Kakala favored Option A which would cost approximately $17 million and noted money was
     already allocated in the public works budget for a design build. He said much of the necessary work
     like installing water and sewer lines, paving, excavating, and building demolition could be completed
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of May 16, 2023                              DRAFT                                                 Page 2




       by Murray staff, so hiring outside help would not be necessary for those projects. Ms. Moore said a
       sales tax revenue bond through the City’s Municipal Building Authority would be the most cost-
       effective way to fund the overall project.

•   A resolution authorizing the execution of an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between Murray City
    School District (“District”) and Murray City (“City”) for the shared use of Hillcrest Junior High facilities.
      Parks Director Kim Sorensen explained that in 2013 the City participated in the construction of the
      new Hillcrest Junior High School facility by contributing $200,000 for Murray Arts programming. In
      return for the funding, the City receives use of their culture facilities, which is the auditorium, little
      theater, and band room. Since the original 10-year agreement has expired the District requested a
      renewal of the agreement with some minor modifications. He said the proposed agreement is about
      the same with some adjustments. Highlights included a term of 5-years instead of 10, various
      textual changes and the City would now hire its own supervisory staff when using school facilities.
      Mr. Sorensen was fine with the requested changes.

•   A resolution approving and authorizing execution of an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between
    Murray City Corporation and Salt Lake County for a contribution of TRCC Funds for a new playground
    area in Murray Park.
      Mr. Sorensen reviewed a proposed agreement that would allow the City to receive $100,000 in
      TRCC (Tourism, Recreation, Culture and Convention) funding from Salt Lake County. The TRCC
      money would be used to help construct a new toddler playground in Murray Park. The hope is to
      have it completed by July 4, 2023 if the proposed resolution and agreement is approved.

•   Continue to participate in the Salt Lake Urban County CDBG (Community Development Block Grant)
    program.
      City Attorney G.L. Critchfield discussed the CDBG and proposed an interlocal agreement that would
      provide affordable housing, housing infrastructure and local development. He explained that CDBG
      is one of the longest running financial assistant programs that HUD (Housing and Urban
      Development) offers, where Murray has participated with HUD for many years through Salt Lake
      County. The current contract will expire soon so the City will need to decide whether or not to
      reapply for another three-year program. The deadline for opting out is May 26, 2023 and nothing is
      required to remain in the program. Staff recommended the City stay with the County, which would
      also save the City a significant cost in labor. There was consensus to reapply with the County.

•   City Council Travel Policy updates.
      Mr. Hrechkosy explained his intent to update the Council Travel Policy was to provide more
      transparency and create uniformity. His suggestions came after a thorough and careful review of
      the existing policy that the Council approved on July 5, 2022. This time optional conferences would
      be better outlined; all Council travel would fall under one policy and spending would not come from
      other City department travel budgets. Mr. Hrechkosy felt if the MCC (Murray City Council) was going
      to travel, proper guidelines from one policy should be followed and there should be a spending cap
      for each Council Member. He hoped to bring travel spending in line comparatively to other
      municipal councils.

       He discussed the importance of having an educated Council but believed the City’s administrative
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of May 16, 2023                            DRAFT                                               Page 3




       staff, who report information to the Council, were already well educated. He felt it is primarily City
       staff that should attend conferences. He pointed out the Council does not attend conferences for
       Murray Parks and Recreation or Murray Public Works like they do for MCP (Murray City Power). In
       summary, he hoped to ensure that the Council was being fiscally smart since they would consider
       implementing a property tax increase in the future; and to show that the Council was completely
       transparent with a reasonable amount of spend for travel. Mr. Markham noted the proposed
       updates would take effect next fiscal year if approved. Mr. Hrechkosy agreed.

       Ms. Turner thought Council travel details were transparent. She asked how the Council was not
       being transparent. Mr. Hrechkosy explained much of Council travel expenses are paid through the
       MCP and CED (Community and Economic Development) budgets for attending their conferences.
       As a result, those itemized expenses are not reflected in the Council budget. His concern was that
       as a citizen it was hard to evaluate what a Council Member actually spends on travel in a 4-year
       term. He said this was inconsistent and thought all Council travel expenses should be itemized in
       the City Council budget and not from other administrative budgets. He felt the Council did not
       always adhere to the existing policy.

       He said with no formal Power Board, Council Members could pick MCP conferences ahead of time
       within a restricted budget to ensure a determined cost and clear travel plan. He questioned whether
       Council Members need to attend all different MCP conferences every single year. He encouraged
       the Council to attend conferences for the ULCT (Utah League of Cities and Towns) and the NLC
       (National League of Cities) because they are the most relevant to city council duties.

       Ms. Turner said the MCC is the City’s Power Board. Mr. Markham clarified the Council oversees all
       city department budgets including MCP, but the Council does not direct policy for MCP. Mr.
       Hrechkosy agreed. Ms. Turner said it was the Council’s responsibility to be educated. She described
       past procedures for traveling out of state to attend power conferences paid for by MCP. A lengthy
       discussion followed about whether the MCC is the City’s Power Board and whether there was favor
       for a restricted travel budget and conference limitations. Ms. Turner felt the proposal of $7,500 per
       year was restrictive and would discourage Council Members from traveling and implies they cannot
       take responsibility for travel and learning.

       Mr. Markham thought having a set amount of money would help them prioritize what conferences
       are most important. He said the Council did not need to attend the same power conferences every
       single year and they did not need to be fully educated on the subject of power. Being a travel guest
       of a city department could create a sense of obligation that comes with certain expectations, which
       he did not favor. He agreed Council travel expenses should be allocated to just the Council budget
       which shows transparency.

       Ms. Cotter said education was limited at power conferences and agreed travel reporting was
       necessary. She said that when the MCC approves of a Mayor’s appointment for a department head
       position, it means that the Council trusts that person to thoroughly understand all aspects of
       running department operations with full responsibility. Reports from department heads would be
       efficient for education. If not, the Council should not be approving these appointments. She thought
       the Council should stop going to power conferences, and only attend ULCT and NLC conferences.
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of May 16, 2023                               DRAFT                                                 Page 4




       Mr. Markham thought one city department should not be more important than another and the
       Council should treat all departments with equal value.

       Ms. Dominguez agreed that legislatively ULCT and NLC conferences were important and CED
       conferences were helpful. She encouraged all Council Members to attend a power conference and
       discussed values which helped her make good decisions regarding power issues. She asked Mr.
       Critchfield to clarify legislative functions of the Council. Mr. Critchfield said the MCC sets policies for
       the City for the direction of the City, but day-to-day operations of the City is not part of that function.
       Mr. Markham thought attending power conferences was not necessary. The discussion continued
       regarding lack of reporting after conferences, the practice of using other Council Member travel
       allowances, and if attending more than one power conference was allowed each fiscal year.

       Mr. Hrechkosy calculated a cost of $60,000 if each Council Member attended every allowable
       conference. As a citizen he felt this was concerning compared to other municipal councils. Ms.
       Cotter shared how she could not go against the current policy she voted for. Ms. Dominguez felt
       clarification was needed to update the policy and there was confusion due to vague procedures
       from the past administration when Council travel for power conferences were funded by the power
       budget. Mayor Hales agreed the previous administration handled Council power travel expenses
       differently.

       There was consensus that the current policy was vague regarding what city budgets should pay for
       Council travel. Mr. Hrechkosy invited Council Members to submit additional ideas before the
       amended policy was finalized.

Adjournment: 5:36 p.m.
                                                                    Pattie Johnson
                                                                    Council Office Administrator III
Discussion
   Items
Discussion
 Item #1
                                    DƵƌƌĂǇ ŝƚǇ ŽƵŶĐŝů

                                    Report from the Attorney's Office


                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗June 6, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Monthly Department Report
Jennifer Kennedy
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Information only.
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
G.L. Critchfield

                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for
Presentation             The Attorney's Office will provide an update on their
                         department.
30 Minutes

Is This Time
Sensitive
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
May 25, 2023
Discussion
 Item #2
                                      Department/Agency
                                      Finance & Administration
                                      FY 2022-2023 Budget Amendment


                                      Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                      Meeting Date: June 6, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Amend the FY 2022-2023 budget
Brenda Moore
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Discussion
801-264-2513
                    Attachments
Presenters
Brenda Moore

                    Budget Impact
                         Budget Amendment Ordinance



                    Description of this Item
Required Time for                     The following items have been included in the
Presentation                              requested budget amendment:
                                      1. In the general fund transfer $17,330 from reserves
10 Minutes                                to the Capital projects fund for the Museum move
Is This Time                              to the Murray Mansion. These funds have been
                                          set aside in reserves since they were received
Sensitive                                 from the EPA as part of the cleanup of the IHC
Yes                                       smelter site and removal of the smokestacks. They
                                          were restricted to be used by the City for a
Mayor’s Approval                          museum and possible future relocation of the
                                          museum. The amount transferred includes
                                          accrued interest.
Date
May 24, 2023
Continued from Page 1:
2. In the Capital Projects Fund receive and allocate $65,500 for a pump and trailer from the State
of Utah flood mitigation grant administered by UFA emergency management.

 3. In the General Fund receive $96,500 of interest revenue and allocate to :
     A. $15,000 match for the grant received for the Murray North/Millcreek small area plan
     B. $16,500 Granite school district music donation
     C. $10,000 IT phone Internet to cover a 2020 Century Link phone charge.
     D. $55,000 for additional software costs in the IT department due to additional cyber security
software and Microsoft office cost increases.

4. In the General Fund receive $100,000 ambulance services revenue and allocate to Fire
department overtime.

5. In the General Fund Building Division transfer $80,000 of personnel budget to operations for
professional services, outside inspection services.

6. In the Solid Waste Fund receive $45,000 of interest revenue and allocate to Rolloff dumpster
fees. The tipping cost for the roll-off dumpster program increased along with utilization. City code
section 7.04.030 allows the Public works director to increase the fee associated with the roll-off
program to cover the cost. Russ has increased the fee to rent a roll-off dumpster from $200 to
$280 to cover the cost, and next years budget was adjusted accordingly.

7. In the Power Fund allocate $4,000,000 from reserves for the increased cost of purchased power.
                                   Murray City Corporation

                             NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING


       NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that on the 27th day of June 2023, at the hour of 6:30
p.m. of said day in the Council Chambers of Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800 South Room
150, Murray, Utah, the Murray City Municipal Council will hold and conduct a hearing to
receive public comment concerning amending the City’s fiscal year 2022–2023 budget.
A copy of the proposed budget amendments may be reviewed by interested persons by
contacting the Murray City Department of Finance and Administration, Room 155, Murray
City Hall, Murray, Utah, during normal business hours.


      DATED this 17th day of May 2023.


                                                MURRAY CITY CORPORATION


                                                _____________________________________
                                                Brooke Smith
                                                City Recorder



DATE OF PUBLICATION: June 19, 2023
PH23-12

1.    In at least one public location within the City;
2.    on the Utah Public Notice Website; and
3.    on the home page of the Murray City Website.
                                   ORDINANCE NO.

     AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CITY’S FISCAL YEAR 2022-2023 BUDGET

   On August 9, 2022, the Murray City Municipal Council adopted the City’s budget for
Fiscal Year 2022-2023. It has been proposed that the Fiscal Year 2022-2023 budget be
amended as follows:

      1. In the General Fund receive $96,500 of interest revenue and allocate the
         following items:

             a. $15,000 for match for a grant received for the Murray North small areas
                plan, and;

             b. $16,500 for the Granite School District music program donation, and;

             c. $10,000 for Internet and phone charges relating to FY2020 expenses,
                and;

             d. $55,000 for IT Software expense for cost increases and cyber security.

      2. In the General Fund receive $100,000 for ambulance services and allocate to
         Fire Department overtime.

      3. In the General Fund Building Division transfer $80,000 of personnel budget to
         operations professional services for inspections and reviews.

      4. In the General Fund transfer the Smelter Historical restricted funds of $17,330
         from reserves to the Capital Projects fund.

      5. In the Capital Improvement Project Fund receive $17,330 and allocate to the
         Murray Mansion renovation project.

      6. In the Capital Improvement Project Fund receive and appropriate $65,500 from
         the State of Utah flood mitigation grant for a pump and trailer.

      7. In the Solid Waste Fund receive $45,000 of interest revenue and allocate to roll-
         off dumpster expense.

      8. In the Power Fund allocate $4,000,000 for purchased power expense from
         reserves.


Section 10-6-128 of the Utah Code states that the budget for the City may be amended by
the Murray City Municipal Council following a duly noticed public hearing. Pursuant to
proper notice, the Murray City Municipal Council held a public hearing on June 27, 2023,
to consider proposed amendments to the Fiscal Year 2022-2023 budget. After considering
public comment, the Murray City Municipal Council wants to amend the Fiscal Year 2022-
2023 budget.

 Section 1. Enactment. The City’s Fiscal Year 2022-2023 budget shall be amended as
follows:
       1. In the General Fund receive $96,500 of interest revenue and allocate the
          following items:

              a. $15,000 for match for a grant received for the Murray North small areas
                 plan, and;

              b. $16,500 for the Granite School District music program donation, and;

              c. $10,000 for Internet and phone charges relating to FY2020 expenses,
                 and;

              d. $55,000 for IT Software expense for cost increases and cyber security.

       2. In the General Fund receive $100,000 for ambulance services and allocate to
          Fire Department overtime.

       3. In the General Fund Building Division transfer $80,000 of personnel budget to
          operations professional services for inspections and reviews.

       4. In the General Fund transfer the Smelter Historical restricted funds $17,330 from
          reserves to the Capital Projects fund.

       5. In the Capital Improvement Project Fund receive $17,330 and allocate to the
          Murray Mansion renovation project.

       6. In the Capital Improvement Project Fund receive and appropriate $65,500 from
          the State of Utah flood mitigation grant for a pump and trailer.

       7. In the Solid Waste Fund receive $45,000 of interest revenue and allocate to roll-
          off dumpster expense.

       8. In the Power Fund allocate $4,000,000 for purchased power expense from
          reserves.

       Section 2. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect on first publication.

       PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this    day of         , 2023.

                                          MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                        Garry Hrechkosy, Chair
ATTEST:



Brooke Smith, City Recorder

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

      DATED this        day of            _, 2023.




                                        Brett Hales, Mayor
ATTEST:



Brooke Smith, City Recorder




                           CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

       I hereby certify that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published according
to law on the    day of                , 2023.



                                        Brooke Smith, City Recorder
Discussion
 Item #3
                                    Power Department

        00
     MURRAY
                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                    Meeting Date: June 6, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Consider an amendment to existing solar rate, increasing
Greg Bellon              permitted installation size of commercial solar.

                    Action Requested
Phone#                   Consider an ordinance amendment to increase permitted
801-264-2705             commercial solar size from 10 to 500 kilowatts
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Proposed ordinance ammendment
Greg Bellon
Matt Youngs
                    Budget Impact
                         N/A


                    Description of this Item

Required Time for        The existing solar rate allows for commercial installations up to
                         10 kilowatts in size . The proposed amendment would allow
Presentation
                         installations up to 100% of a customer's annual peak demand or
15 Minutes               500 kilowatts, whichever is less. This amendment will not affect
                         the existing residential solar rate.
Is This Time
Sensitive
No

Mayor's Approval


 /)oat?t~
Date
     5/24/2028
                               ORDINANCE NO. _______

      AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 15.20.250, OF THE MURRAY CITY
      MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO ELECTRICAL SERVICE SCHEDULE 35
      FOR SOLAR RATES.

      BE IT ENACTED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:


      Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to amend Section
15.20.250 relating to Electrical Service Schedule 35 for Solar Rates.

      Section 2. Amendment to the Electric Service Schedule 35 for Solar Rates of
Section 15.20.250 of the Murray City Municipal Code. Section 15.20.250 of the Murray
City Municipal Code shall be amended to read as follows:


                                   Chapter 15.20
                             ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS

15.20.250: ELECTRIC SERVICE SCHEDULE 35; NET METERING PILOT PROGRAM
A. Applicability: The net metering pilot program is available to customers located within
the City's current electrical service territory who:
   1. Purchase electricity from the City under the provisions of another electric service
      schedule; and

   2. Own and operate a solar, wind, or hydroelectric generator located on the
      customer's premises that:

          a. Is primarily intended to offset part or all of the customer's own electrical
             requirements on the premises;

          b. For schedule 1 customers - Has has a capacity of no more than ten
             kilowatts (10 kW);

          b.c.       For schedule 3, 9 and 13 customers – has a capacity of no more
              than a net alternating current (AC) output equal to 100% of a customer’s
              annual peak demand in kilowatts or five hundred (500) kilowatts,
              whichever is less;

          c.d.      Is interconnected with Murray City's electric system; and

          d.e.      Operates in parallel with the City's distribution system.
B. Definitions: As used in this section:
NET ENERGY: The difference between the electricity supplied by the City to the
customer through the City's electric distribution system and the electricity generated on
the customer's premises which is fed back into the City's electric distribution system.
NET METERING: A method of measuring the difference between the electricity supplied
by the City to the customer through the City's electric distribution system and the
electricity generated on the customer's premises which is fed back into the City's
electric distribution system.
 C. Special Conditions:
   1. The customer shall pay for the net energy used in accordance with the following
      formula:

          a. The customer shall pay for all electric energy supplied by the City to the
             customer in any billing period in excess of the amount of electric energy
             produced by the customer on the premises which is fed back into the
             City's electric distribution system during that same billing period.

          b. The customer shall receive a credit for all electric energy produced by the
             customer on the premises which is fed back into the City's electric
             distribution system during a billing period in excess of the amount of
             electric energy supplied by the City during that billing period, with such
             credit applied to the customer's future bills, except that any electric energy
             credit balance remaining in favor of the customer under the provisions of
             this subsection C1b at the time of their April billing each year shall be
             zeroed out with no further liability to the City and no credit to the customer
             for said balance.

          c. In the event the customer terminates service under this electric service
             schedule, any electric energy credit balance in favor of the customer
             under the provisions of subsection C1b of this section shall be forfeited.
             The City will not make cash payments to customers based on their
             participation in the net metering pilot program for energy produced by the
             customer which is fed into the City's electric distribution system.

   2. The price for electric energy provided to or credited to a customer participating in
      the net metering pilot program shall be the price charged by the City under the
      provisions of the electric service schedule for which the customer receives
      service absent this electric service schedule 35.

   3. The net metering pilot program billing adjustment only applies to charges for
      energy. Participating customers are subject to all other charges, rates, terms and
      conditions of the electric service schedule under which the customer receives
      service except as expressly altered by this electric service schedule 35.
                                            2
    4. The customer shall provide, at the customer's own expense, all equipment
       necessary to meet applicable safety, power quality, and interconnection
       requirements established by the National Electrical Code (NEC), the Institute of
       Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), Underwriters Laboratories (UL), and
       any applicable local and State agencies, including any equipment deemed
       necessary by the City's Power Department expressly to accommodate the
       customer's request to qualify for this electric service schedule 35. The customer
       must first obtain written approval from the City's Power Department before the
       customer's on site generating system is energized or interconnected with the
       City's electric system.

    5. In order to participate in the City's net metering pilot program and to receive the
       benefits of this electric service schedule 35, the customer must first sign a net
       metering pilot program interconnection and service agreement with the City. The
       interconnection and service agreement allows the customer to interconnect and
       operate in parallel with the City's distribution system and allows the City to test
       and inspect the customer's system periodically to ensure the safety of electrical
       workers and integrity of the City's electric distribution system. The
       interconnection and service agreement will contain additional terms and
       conditions for service under this electric service schedule 35, including specific
       terms of interconnection and parallel operation with the City's electrical system.

    6. The net metering pilot program and this electric service schedule 35 are
       presently made available to customers on a trial basis. This electric service
       schedule 35 and the net metering pilot program may be adjusted or discontinued
       by the Murray City Municipal Council for any reason, at any time without any
       obligation to existing participants.
  D. Supply Cost Adjustment: All monthly bills resulting in a balance due from the
customer shall be adjusted in accordance with electric service schedule 30.
…

        Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect on ______________,
2023.


       PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this ___________ day of _____________________, 2023.



                                          MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL


                                             3
                                        _____________________________________
                                        Garry Hrechkosy, Chair


ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith
City Recorder


     Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this ____ day of
___________, 2023.


MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

      DATED this ____ day of _______________, 2023


                                        _____________________________________
                                        Brett A. Hales, Mayor


ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith
City Recorder

                          CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

       I hereby certify that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published according
to law on the ___ day of _________, 2023.



                                        _____________________________________
                                        Brooke Smith
                                        City Recorder



                                           4
Discussion
 Item #4
                                    City Council

                                    Financial Standards for Enterprise
                                    Funds

                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗June 6, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Discuss standards for all enterprise funds.
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ <ĞŶŶĞĚǇ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Information and discussion
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
Phil Markham

                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for
Presentation             Council Member Markham will discuss the standards of the
                         enterprise funds and propose changes to ensure all enterprise
15 Minutes               funds have the same requirements and guidelines.
Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
May 25, 2023
                            ORDINANCE NO.________

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 7.04.020 (SOLID WASTE), 13.08.010
(WATER), 13.32.130 (WASTEWATER), 13.48.060 (STORMWATER), AND 15.20.260
(POWER) OF THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO THE
FINANCIAL STANDARDS OF THE SOLID WASTE, WATER, WASTEWATER,
STORMWATER, AND POWER ENTERPRISE FUNDS

     BE IT ENACTED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

     Section 1.     Purpose. The purpose of this Ordinance is to amend sections
     7.04.020 (solid waste), 13.08.010 (water), 13.32.130 (wastewater), 13.48.060
     (stormwater), and 15.20.260 (power) of the Murray City Municipal Code relating
     to the financial standards of the solid waste, water, wastewater, stormwater, and
     power enterprise funds.

     Section 2.  Amendment to sections 7.04.020, 13.08.010, 13.32.130, 13.48.060,
     and 15.20.260 of the Murray City Municipal Code.

     Sections 7.04.020, 13.08.010, 13.32.130, 13.48.060, and 15.20.260 of the
     Murray City Municipal Code shall be amended as follows:

                                   TITLE 7
                   SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING MANAGEMENT

     ...

     7.04.020: FUND:

     A. Fund Created: There is created an Enterprise Fund known as the Solid Waste
     and Recycling Management Fund. All funds received from, or expended in
     connection with, general solid waste management services and green waste
     trailer reservations shall be accounted for in the Solid Waste and Recycling
     Management Fund separate and apart from all other City funds. The collection,
     accounting and expenditure of all such funds shall be in accordance with existing
     fiscal policies of the City.

     B. Annual Transfer: Beginning fiscal year 2014, there shall be, each fiscal year,
     an operational transfer from the City's Solid Waste and Recycling Management
     Fund to the City's General Fund of eight percent (8.00%) of total operating
     revenue as used and defined in the Utah Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act. Such
     transfer shall not prohibit acts and other services being rendered to other
     departments of the City.
C. Investments, Cash And Cash Equivalents Reserves (Reserve): The reserve
level for the Solid Waste and Recycling Management Fund (the "fund") is twenty
five thirty percent (2530%) of operating revenue the amount of revenue from the
immediately preceding fiscal year ("reserve level"). This reserve level is to
provide cash liquidity and operational stability in case of situations such as
natural disasters, equipment failure, economic uncertainty, and weather
variations. As a result of onetime expenses, the reserve level may fluctuate,
provided however that the reserve level should not be drawn upon for ongoing
operational expenses. If reserves are drawn below the reserve level, the fund will
replenish reserves to the reserve level within five (5) years. (Ord. 16-01)

D. Solid Waste and Recycling Master Plan; Updates: The Public Works
Department shall prepare, and the City Council shall adopt a solid waste and
recycling master plan (“Plan”) that includes a comprehensive evaluation of the
current solid waste and recycling system and identifies programs, facilities,
activities, and technologies that will best support sustainable solid waste
management. This Plan will serve as the guide for solid waste operations and
program development to meet the future solid waste management needs of the
City in both the short and long terms. The Plan shall also include a review of
applicable laws and regulations, planning assumptions, finances, organizational
structure, and workforce. The Plan shall be updated not less than every 5 years.

E. Rate Studies and Impact Fee Studies: Solid Waste and Recycling System rate
studies and impact fee studies shall be conducted not less than every five years
to update assumptions and ensure the long‐ term solvency and viability of the
City’s Solid Waste and Recycling System.

F. Annual Review: Utility rates and impact fees shall be reviewed annually as
part of the budget process and necessary adjustments made to avoid major rate
increases.

....

                             CHAPTER 13.08
                          WATER SERVICE SYSTEM
...

13.08.010: WATER SYSTEM FINANCIAL STANDARDS:

In order to maintain fiscal soundness of the Water Enterprise Fund, the following
financial standards are established:
A. Annual Transfer: Subject to approval of the annual final budget by the City
Council, there shall be, each fiscal year, an operational transfer to the General
Fund from the total operating revenues of the City's Water Enterprise Fund as
used and defined in the Utah Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act, to cover the costs
of City services provided to the Water Enterprise Fund. The City Council may, at
any time, modify the amount of transfer. Such transfer shall not prohibit acts and
other services being rendered to other departments of the City.

B. Transfer For Administrative Services: Transfer for administrative services to
the General Fund shall be in an amount not to exceed the value of the actual
services rendered. Such amount shall be set not less than every five (5) years by
the City Council after the performance of an independent audit to determine the
value of service performed.

C. Investments, Cash And Cash Equivalents Reserves (Reserve): A Reserve
Fund shall be established within the Water Enterprise Fund. The minimum
reserve level for the Water Enterprise Fund (the "fund") is twenty five thirty
percent (2530%) of operating revenue the amount of revenue from the
immediately preceding fiscal year ("reserve level"). This level of reserves
provides the minimum cash liquidity and operational stability in case of natural
disasters, equipment failure, economic uncertainty and weather variations. As a
result of one-time expenses, the reserve level may fluctuate, provided however
that the reserve level should not be drawn upon for ongoing operational
expenses. If reserves are drawn below the minimum reserve level, the fund will
replenish reserves to the reserve level within five (5) years. (Ord. 17-40)

D. Water System Master Plan; Updates: The Water Division shall prepare, and
the City Council shall adopt a water system master plan (“Plan”) that includes a
comprehensive study of the city's water source, storage, treatment, and delivery
systems and will be used to guide future water utility decisions. The Plan serves
to evaluate the existing water system and provide recommendations regarding
how the city should prepare for the future. The Plan shall include a review of
applicable laws and regulations, planning assumptions, water use, finances,
organizational structure, and workforce. The Plan shall be updated not less than
every 5 years.

E. Rate Studies and Impact Fee Studies: Water System rate studies and impact
fee studies shall be conducted not less than every five years to update
assumptions and ensure the long‐ term solvency and viability of the City’s Water
System.
F. Annual Review: Utility rates and impact fees shall be reviewed annually as
part of the budget process and necessary adjustments made to avoid major rate
increases.

....

                               CHAPTER 13.32
                            WASTEWATER SYSTEM

...

13.32.130: WASTEWATER FINANCIAL STANDARDS:

In order to maintain fiscal soundness of the Wastewater Enterprise Fund, the
following financial standards are established:

A. Annual Transfer: Subject to approval of the final budget by the City Council,
there shall be, each fiscal year, an operational transfer to the City's General Fund
from total operating revenue of the City Wastewater Enterprise Fund as used and
defined in the Utah Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act, but shall not include funds
dedicated for Central Valley Water Reclamation Facility. The City Council may, at
any time, modify the operational transfer. Such transfer shall not prohibit acts and
other services being rendered to other departments of the City.


B. Transfer For Administrative Services: Transfer for administrative services from
the Wastewater Enterprise Fund to the General Fund in an amount not to exceed
the value of the actual services rendered. Such amount shall be set not less than
every five (5) years by the City Council after the performance of an independent
audit to determine the value of services performed. The City Council may, at any
time, modify the amount of transfer.

C. Investments, Cash And Cash Equivalents Reserves (Reserve): A Reserve
Fund shall be established within the Wastewater Enterprise Fund (the "fund").
The minimum reserve level for the fund is twenty five thirty percent (2530%) of
operating revenue the amount of revenue from the immediately preceding fiscal
year ("reserve level"). This level of reserves provides the minimum cash liquidity
and operational stability in case of natural disasters, equipment failure, economic
uncertainty and weather variations. As a result of one-time expenses, the reserve
level may fluctuate, provided however that the reserve level should not be drawn
upon for ongoing operational expenses. If reserves are drawn below the
minimum reserve level, the fund will replenish reserves to the reserve level within
five (5) years. (Ord. 17-40)

D. Wastewater System Master Plan; Updates: The Wastewater Division shall
prepare, and the City Council shall adopt a wastewater system master plan
(“Plan”) that includes a comprehensive study of the City's collection system
storage including the capacity of the collection system, capacity issues, and
collection system operations and maintenance programs and will be used to
guide future wastewater system decisions. The Plan serves to evaluate the
existing wastewater system and provide recommendations regarding how the city
should prepare for the future. The Plan shall include a review of applicable laws
and regulations, finances, organizational structure, and workforce. The Plan
should review planning assumptions by analyzing the existing collection system
under existing and future land use conditions, identify capacity problems under
future conditions, develop and identify recommended improvement projects,
prioritize the recommended improvements and develop estimates of capital
construction cost. The Plan shall be updated not less than every 5 years.

E. Rate Studies and Impact Fee Studies: Wastewater system rate studies and
impact fee studies shall be conducted not less than every five years to update
assumptions and ensure the long‐ term solvency and viability of the City’s
wastewater system.

F. Annual Review: Utility rates and impact fees shall be reviewed annually as
part of the budget process and necessary adjustments made to avoid major rate
increases.
....

                                CHAPTER 13.48
                             STORMWATER UTILITY
...

13.48.060: STORMWATER FINANCIAL STANDARDS:

A. Annual Transfer: Subject to the approval of the final annual budget by the City
Council, there shall be, each fiscal year, an operational transfer from the City's
Stormwater Fund operating revenue to the City's General Fund as used and
defined in the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act. The City Council may, at any time,
modify the operational transfer. The operational transfers shall not prohibit acts
and other services being rendered to other departments of the City.

B. Transfer For Administrative Services: Transfer for administrative services to
the General Fund shall be in an amount not to exceed the value of the actual
services rendered. Such amount shall be set not less than every five (5) years by
the City Council after the performance of an independent audit to determine the
value of the service performed.

C. Investments, Cash And Cash Equivalents Reserves (Reserve): The minimum
reserve level for the Stormwater Utility Enterprise Fund (the "fund") is twenty five
thirty percent (2530%) of operating revenue the amount of revenue from the
immediately preceding fiscal year ("reserve level"). This level of reserves
provides the minimum cash liquidity and operational stability in case of natural
      disasters, equipment failure, economic uncertainty and weather variations. As a
      result of one-time expenses, the reserve level may fluctuate, provided however
      that the reserve level should not be drawn upon for ongoing operational
      expenses. If reserves are drawn below the minimum reserve level, the fund will
      replenish reserves to the reserve level within five (5) years. (Ord. 17-40)

      D. Stormwater Utility Master Plan; Updates: The Stormwater Division shall
      prepare, and the City Council shall adopt a stormwater utility master plan (“Plan”)
      that includes a comprehensive assessment of the City’s roads, drainage
      infrastructure, and water management features to identify improvements needed
      to address capacity and flooding issues and will be used to guide future
      stormwater utility decisions. The Plan serves to evaluate the existing stormwater
      utility and provide recommendations regarding how the city should prepare for
      the future. The Plan shall include a review of applicable laws and regulations,
      finances, planning assumptions, organizational structure, and workforce. The
      Plan should recommend design standards for new development, re-
      development, transportation, water quality, floodplain mitigation, and
      inadequacies in the storm sewer system. The Plan shall be updated not less than
      every 5 years.

      E. Rate Studies and Impact Fee Studies: Stormwater utility rate studies and
      impact fee studies shall be conducted not less than every five years to update
      assumptions and ensure the long‐ term solvency and viability of the City’s
      stormwater system.

      F. Annual Review: Utility rates and impact fees shall be reviewed annually as
      part of the budget process and necessary adjustments made to avoid major rate
      increases.
      ....

                                     CHAPTER 15.20
                                ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
      ...

15.20.260: POWER FUND FINANCIAL STANDARDS:

In order to maintain fiscal soundness of the Power Fund, the following financial
standards are established:
  A. Operational Transfers: There shall be, each fiscal year, an operational transfer
from the City's Power Enterprise Fund to the City's General Fund of eight percent
(8.00%) of total operating revenues (including wholesale power sales revenue), as used
and defined in the Utah Uniform Fiscal Procedure Act, excluding:
   1. Disbursements and/or refunds of overcollections and/or margins received from
Utah Associated Municipal Power Systems (UAMPS) and/or the Intermountain Power
Agency (IPA); and
     2. Revenues collected in accordance with electric service schedule 30, supply cost
adjustment (SCA): The in lieu of tax transfer approximates the equivalent ad valorem
taxes which would be imposed on an investor owned utility with the same or similar
facilities. This transfer does not prohibit the Power Department from assisting or
providing other services to other City departments.
  B. Transfer For Administrative Services: Transfer for administrative services to the
General Fund must be in an amount not to exceed the value of the actual services
rendered. Such amount will be set each year by the Director of Finance and
Administration and approved by the City Council through the budget approval process,
based upon established cost allocation methodologies. In the general audit for fiscal
year 1994-1995, and every fifth year thereafter, an allocation audit will be included in
the general audit performed for the City by an independent auditor, to verify and/or
recommend modification of the cost allocation methodologies. Any additional costs must
be paid out of an appropriate Power Department account.
   C. Investments, Cash And Cash Equivalents Reserves (Reserve): The reserve level
for the Power Enterprise Fund (the "fund") is twenty five thirty percent (2530%) of
operating revenue the amount of revenue from the immediately preceding fiscal year
("reserve level"). This reserve level is to provide cash liquidity and operational stability in
case of situations such as natural disasters, equipment failure, economic uncertainty,
and weather variations. As a result of onetime expenses, the reserve level may
fluctuate, provided however that the reserve level should not be drawn upon for ongoing
operational expenses. If reserves are drawn below the reserve level, the fund will
replenish reserves to the reserve level within five (5) years. (Ord. 19-05: Ord. 16-17)
D.      Power Utility Master Plan; Updates: The Power Department shall prepare, and
the City Council shall adopt a power utility master plan (“Plan”) that includes a
comprehensive a long-term outlook and ongoing reevaluation of power utility needs and
will be used to guide future power utility decisions. The Plan serves to evaluate the
existing power utility and provide recommendations regarding how the City should
prepare for the future. Components of the Plan include energy procurement,
infrastructure improvement, funding, energy conservation, and energy management.
The Plan shall also include a review of applicable laws and regulations, finances,
planning assumptions, organizational structure, and workforce. The Plan will assist the
power department to develop a framework for the infrastructure needs of development
and re-development in the City’s service area. The Plan shall be updated not less than
every 5 years.
E.     Rate Studies and Impact Fee Studies: Power utility rate studies and impact fee
studies shall be conducted not less than every five years to update assumptions and
ensure the long‐ term solvency and viability of the City’s power utility system.
F.    Annual Review: Utility rates and impact fees shall be reviewed annually as part of
the budget process and necessary adjustments made to avoid major rate increases.
....
Section 3.   Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect on first publication.

                                  MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                  ___________________________________
                                  Garry Hrechkosy, Chair

ATTEST:



____________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder



MAYORS ACTION: Approved

                                  DATED this___ day of______________, 2023



                                  _____________________________________
                                  Brett A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:



_____________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder




                       CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

      I hereby certify that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published
according to law on ___ day of _____________, 2023.
______________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
Discussion
 Item #5
                                     City Council

                                    City Hall Policies


                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                     DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗June 6, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Discuss City Hall Policies
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ <ĞŶŶĞĚǇ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Information and discussion
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
Jennifer Kennedy

                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for         The administration has implemented, via an Executive Order,
Presentation             some policies for the new city hall. The council will discuss if they
                         want to consider adopting those policies as well.
5 Minutes

Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
June 1, 2023
                                  EXECUTIVE ORDER 23-01

A. PURPOSE:

   The purpose of this Executive Order is to adopt the Murray City Hall Policies for the New
   Murray City Hall location (10 East 4800 South).

B. CITY HALL POLICIES:

   The Murray City Hall Policies, attached as an Appendix, are hereby adopted.

C. EFFECTIVE DATE:

   These Policies shall be effective as of the date of execution and shall remain in effect until
   otherwise amended or repealed by the Mayor.


Dated this 9th day of May 2023.

                                             MURRAY CITY CORPORATION


                                             _________________________________________
                                             Brett A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:


_____________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder

APPROVED AS TO FORM:


_____________________________
G.L. Critchfield, City Attorney
        APPENDIX

MURRAY CITY HALL POLICIES
Murray City Hall Policies
 1. High Performance Building Standards
        a. Employees shall not use space heaters or personal refrigerators without
            approval of facilities manager.
        b. Employees shall not modify thermostat and lighting controls without approval of
            facilities manager.
        c. All rooms shall have material recycling bins.
 2. Walls, Ceilings, and Windows
        a. Placement of art, decorations, or other material on walls, windows, and ceiling
            of public spaces (lobby, shared conference rooms, hallways) is prohibited
            without approval of facilities manager.
                  i. Exception: Department areas and personal office walls. Coordinate with
                     facilities manager on type of materials used to hang items.
        b. Departments may display materials in the lobby with approval of the facilities
            manager.
 3. Furniture
        a. Furniture cannot be purchased, installed, or modified without approval of the
            facilities manager.
 4. Plants
        a. Plants shall only be placed in department areas and personal offices.
 5. Parking
        a. Employee shall park vehicles in the following parking lots:
                  i. East of Hanauer Street
                 ii. South of 5th Avenue
                iii. The furthermost area south and west of city hall
        b. Police vehicles may park in the area west of city hall
        c. Employees may park in designated EV charging stalls only while charging vehicle
        d. City vehicles (non-police) should be parked in the lot south of 5th Avenue
 6. Mail Room
        a. Departments are responsible for picking up and dropping off mail in the
            designated mail room.
 7. Copy Machines
        a. Employees may use large copiers in limited department areas with department
            approval.
 8. Building Use
        a. City hall shall only be used for city related purposes as designated by Executive
            Order No. 20-08: Scheduling City Hall Conference Rooms.
 9. Technology




                                                                                 Adopted: DATE
Murray City Hall Policies
        a. The Information Technology department is responsible for purchasing and
            installing technology for use in city hall. Employees shall not purchase or install
            technology without IT’s approval.
         b. Messaging on lobby TVs shall be coordinated with IT and approved by the
            mayor’s office.
 10. Cleaning
        a. Facilities division shall be responsible for cleaning all areas of the building except
            tops of office furniture.
        b. Employees shall clean up after themselves when using breakroom, microwave
            ovens, refrigerators, and conference rooms.
 11. Gym
        a. May be used by employees only. (not family members or guests)
        b. Employees must sign a liability waiver prior to use of gym.
        c. Music and TV sound through earbuds only.
        d. Equipment must be sanitized after use.
 12. Maintenance Requests
        a. Requests for maintenance in the building should be entered into the Helpdesk
            on the Intranet.




                                                                                     Adopted: DATE
Discussion
 Item #6
                                    City Council

                                    City Council Travel Policy Updates


                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗June 6, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Updates to the City Council Travel Policy
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ <ĞŶŶĞĚǇ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Adopt changes to the Council's Travel Policy
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Current policy with proposed updates form Council
Garry Hrechkosy          Members
                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for
Presentation             After the travel policy discussion during the May 16, 2023 COW
                         meeting, Council Member Hrechkosy asked the council to bring
20 Minutes               forward changes they would like to see made to the travel policy
Is This Time             for the City Council.
Sensitive                Attached are proposals from Council Member Hrechkosy, Council
Yes                      Member Turner, Council Member Dominguez, and Council
                         Member Cotter.
Mayor’s Approval
                         A discussion will take place on what changes the Council would
                         like to make to the current travel policy.
Date
May 24, 2023
                                         Current Travel Policy


                               Murray City Council Travel Policy



The Murray City Municipal Council adopts, subject to the provisions below, the Murray City travel policy
put into effect by Executive Order 19-01 of July 7, 2019, a copy of which is attached.

Council Specific Provisions and Amendments

    1. Future Amendments. In the event of any future amendment by the City administration to
       Executive Order 19-01, the Council shall automatically adopt such amendments unless within 60
       days of the amendment, the Council reviews and affirmatively declines to adopt such
       amendment or to adopt the amendment with modifications.
    2. Council travel plans shall be determined and approved during the annual budget process.

        a. Travel that was not anticipated during the budget process should be presented to the
           Council for approval on a case-by-case basis to determine intent and benefit in order for
           expenditures to be covered by the City Council budget.

    3. The following conferences have traditionally been pre-approved for attendance by Council
       Members:

            •   Utah League of Cities and Towns, Annual and Mid-Year Conferences (All Council
                Members and Council Executive Director)
            •   National League of Cities: Congressional City Conference or City Summit. (All Council
                Members and Council Executive Director; one conference per fiscal year)
            •   American Public Power Association: Legislative Rally or National Conference (All Council
                Members; one conference per fiscal year. Three Council Members from the Council
                Budget; Two Council Members from Power Department budget.)
            •   UAMPS conference in August. (All Council Members; paid from the Power Department
                Budget.)

    4. Council Members may be invited to participate in travel related to City matters sponsored by
       another City Department. Travel sponsored by another Department is subject to that
       Department’s travel budget and may be rotated between Council Members.

    5. Only one City Council Member may be approved for City related business travel during the time
       of a scheduled City Council meeting.

    6. Council Members whose terms are terminating and have determined not to run for another
       term of office, shall not use Murray City funding to travel during the last six months of office,
       and those who have been defeated during elections and are leaving office in January shall not
       use Murray City funding to attend conferences unless serving as the official City representative
       on a board, committee, or other official body.

    7. Council Members are encouraged to attend training and educational seminars prior to taking
       office.
   8. Council staff will coordinate with Council Members to make travel arrangements. If a Council
      Member would like to stay extra nights before or after a conference, they will be responsible to
      make their own hotel reservations. Extra hotel nights may not be reserved or paid for with a
      City issued credit card.

   9. Family expenses, including tours, movies, mini-bar and other social events, will be the
      responsibility of each Council Member according to their usage. Council Members are
      responsible for turning in their receipts for reimbursement on all other covered expenses within
      ten (10) days of returning. These expenses include the following:
          a. Airline tickets and baggage expense
          b. Lodging expense
          c. Ground transportation (taxi, public transportation or rental car)
          d. City related phone calls
          e. Parking expense at the airport or other long-term facilities


Revised and Approved: July 5, 2022
                            EXECUTIVE ORDER            /[(}11-d/
                                      City-Wide Travel Policy


CONFLICT AND REPEAL

       This Executive Order supersedes, rescinds and replaces Executive Order #15-03 , dated
July 16, 2015; #12-01 dated April 2, 2012; and #2, dated January 14, 1982, each of which shall
be of no further force nor effect. Any and all other Executive Orders relating to City travel are
hereby rescinded and superseded by this Order.


PURPOSE

        The purpose of this order is to adopt a City-wide travel policy in order to ensure
consistent application of cost reimbursement and other matters related to employee travel for
City business.


IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY

          The attached City-Wide Travel Policy is hereby approved and adopted.


EFFECTIVE DATE

          This Travel Policy shall be effective June 7, 2019


Dated this 61h day of June, 2019.




Attest:




Approved as to form:




  .L. Critchfield, City Attorney
                                   Murray City Travel Policy
All overnight travel, whether in-state or out-of-state, is governed· by this policy. When traveling for work-
related meetings, conferences, and training programs, the city will pay reasonable amounts for expenses.
Every effort should be made to make cost effective choices for lodging, transportation, and other related
expenses. All travel is subject to review and audit. When requesting funds for travel, the employee agrees to
only use the money as intended according to this policy.


1.0     Definitions
        1.1     "Travel" means any work-related, overnight trip for the city.
        1.2     "Emp loyee" means all city personnel, city council and staff, boards and commission members,
                or others who travel using executive branch funds as approved by the department head and
                Mayor.
        1.3     "Per Diem" means the amount provided to an employee who is traveling to cover the costs of
                meals and incidental expenses without the necessity of supporting receipts. "Incidental
                expenses" include fees and tips for porters, baggage handlers, room service t ips, and other
                similar services. "I ncidental expenses" does not include ground transportation, fuel (if
                traveling in a city vehicle}, airport parking, baggage fees, or rental cars.
        1.4     "Ground Transportation" means the cost of transporting the employee to and from the Salt
                Lake City airport (if approved by the department head}, from the destination airport to the
                lodging and back to the airport, and from one place of business to another place of business.
2.0     General Provisions
        2.1     A Travel Authorization Form must be completed and approved prior to traveling. Travel
                Authorization Forms will be approved by the department head as to the availability of funds
                prior to being submitted to the Mayor. It is the responsibility of each department head to
                ensure that all forms and documentation submitted by their employees are in proper order.
        2.2     When possible, employees should pay for travel-related expenses using a city credit card. If
                not possible, a receipt of payment must be submitted for reimbursement.
        2.3     Employees may travel with guests. However, the city will only reimburse employee expenses.
                Guest expenses should not be charged on city credit cards.
        2.4     Non-exempt employees will be compensated for travel time as required by the Fair Labor
                Standards Act (FLSA}.

        2.5     Upon completion of approved travel, a Travel Reconciliation Form, along with receipts, must
                be subm itted to the department head within ten business days for final review and
                authorization of any payment due.
        2.6     Violations of this policy or making false statements on any travel forms will constitute grounds
                for disciplinary action.
3.0     Event Registration

        3.1     Registration fees for conferences and seminars will be paid by the city.
        3.2     Fees for optional social events or non-business-related activities will not be paid by the city.
                                     Murray City Travel Policy
4.0   Transportation
      4.1       Considering travel time, the least costly mode of transportation to the destination should be
                used for travel. This includes airlines, city vehicle, rental car, or mileage for personal vehicle . If
                an employee chooses another mode of transportation other than the least costly mode, the
                city will pay for the least costly method.
      4.2       When possible, employees are encouraged to use city-owned vehicles for travel.
      4.3       Employees requesting to use a personal vehicle will calculate mileage advances as stated by
                the IRS POV mileage allowance rate. (www.gsa.gov)
                4.3.1    Use of a personal vehicle requires verification of liability, personal injury and property
                         damage insurance coverage when submitting the Travel Authorization Form . If an
                         accident occurs while using a personal vehicle, all costs re lated to the accident, except
                         those covered by workers compensation, will be paid solely through the personal
                         insurance.
                4.3 .2   If more than one employee rides in the same vehicle, on ly the owner of the vehicle will
                         be reimbursed for mileage.
      4.4       A rental car may be used when work-related travel is required or is less expensive (including
                the cost of parking) than other transportation modes. The city will not pay for rental cars that
                are used for non-work-related travel.
                4.4.1    When renting a car for work-related use, a liability insurance supplement and loss
                         damage waiver must be purchased.
       4.5      The city will pay the lowest price, with fewest stops (including baggage fees), domestic coach
                class airfare when making airline reservations. Airline ticket purchases should be booked as far
                in advance as possible to get the best price. Reservations inside of 21-days require
                department head approval. Frequent flyer memberships should not influence airline ticket
                purchases.
       4.6      The city will pay for ground transportation, including ground transportation tips up to 20%, and
                airport parking.
5.0   Lodging
       5.1      The city will pay conference rates for single occupancy lodging plus tax. Upgrades, room
                service, and entertainment fees will not be paid by the city.
6.0   Per Diem
       6.1      The city will advance funds for Per Diem as stated by the IRS destination city per diem rate
                schedule. (www.gsa.gov)
       6.2      The first and last day of travel will be paid at 75% per diem.
       6.3      In lieu of per diem, an employee may pay for meals and incidental expenses and request
                reimbursement up to the per diem limit. A receipt documenting the expense is required.
                Policy changes recommended by Council Member Hrechkosy

                               Murray City Council Travel Policy



The Murray City Municipal Council adopts, subject to the provisions below, the Murray City travel policy
put into effect by Executive Order 19-01 of July 7, 2019, a copy of which is attached.

Council Specific Provisions and Amendments

    1. Future Amendments. In the event of any future amendment by the City administration to
       Executive Order 19-01, the Council shall automatically adopt such amendments unless within 60
       days of the amendment, the Council reviews and affirmatively declines to adopt such
       amendment or to adopt the amendment with modifications.

    2. Council travel plans shall be determined and approved during the annual budget process.

        a. During the budget process each year, council members will be allocated up to $7,500 per
           council member to use towards travel and may attend any pre-approved conference(s) they
           would like until their allocated money is gone.

        b. The Council Director will keep track of each council members travel budget and update
           council members regularly.

        c. A council member must have enough allocated funds to completely cover all conference
           expenses (hotel, air, per diem, car rental, ground transportation, etc.) in order to attend a
           conference.

        d. A council member will repay the city any amount that is spent over their allocated funds.

        c.e. Travel that was not anticipated during the budget process should be presented to the
             Council for approval on a case-by-case basis to determine intent and benefit in order for
             expenditures to be covered by the City Council budget.

    3. The following conferences have traditionally been pre-approved for attendance by Council
       Members:

            •    Utah League of Cities and Towns, Annual and Mid-Year Conferences (All Council
                 Members and Council Executive Director)
            •    Utah League of Cities and Towns Mid-Year Conference
            •    National League of Cities: Congressional City Conference or
            •    National League of Cities City Summit. (All Council Members and Council Executive
                 Director; one conference per fiscal year)
            •    American Public Power Association: Legislative Rally or
            •    American Public Power Association National Conference (All Council Members; one
                 conference per fiscal year. Three Council Members from the Council Budget; Two
                 Council Members from Power Department budget.)
            Policy changes recommended by Council Member Hrechkosy

        •    UAMPS conference in August. (All Council Members; paid from the Power Department
             Budget.)
        •    Utah Land Use Institute Annual Land Use Conference
        •    ULCT Elected Officials Essentials
        •    ULCT Local Officials Day
        •    American Planning Association
        •    ICSC Las Vegas
        •

4. Council Members may be invited to participate in travel related to City matters sponsored by
   another City Department. Travel sponsored by another Department is subject to that
   Department’s travel budget and may be rotated between Council Members.

5.4. Only one City Council Member may be approved for City related business travel during the time
     of a scheduled City Council meeting.

5. Upon return, Council Members will work with the Council Director to schedule time in a
   Committee of the Whole meeting to provide a follow-up report to the full Council.

6. Council Members whose terms are terminating and have determined not to run for another
   term of office, shall not use Murray City funding to travel during the last six months of office,
   and those who have been defeated during elections and are leaving office in January shall not
   use Murray City funding to attend conferences unless serving as the official City representative
   on a board, committee, or other official body.

7. Council Members are encouraged to attend training and educational seminars prior to taking
   office.

8. Council staff will coordinate with Council Members to make travel arrangements. If a Council
   Member would like to stay extra nights before or after a conference, they will be responsible to
   make their own hotel reservations. Extra hotel nights may not be reserved or paid for with a
   City issued credit card.

9. Family expenses, including tours, movies, mini-bar and other social events, will be the
   responsibility of each Council Member according to their usage. Council Members are
   responsible for turning in their receipts for reimbursement on all other covered expenses within
   ten (10) days of returning. These expenses include the following for each Council Member:
       a. Airline tickets and baggage expense
       b. Lodging expense
       c. Ground transportation (taxi, public transportation or rental car) to and from the Salt
           Lake City airport, from the destination airport to the lodging and back to the airport, and
           from the lodging to a council or conference sponsored event and back to the lodging.
       d. City related phone calls
       e. Parking expense at the airport or other long-term facilities
             Policy changes recommended by Council Member Hrechkosy

Revised and Approved: July 5, 2022
                Policy changes recommended by Council Member Turner

                               Murray City Council Travel Policy



The Murray City Municipal Council adopts, subject to the provisions below, the Murray City travel policy
put into effect by Executive Order 19-01 of July 7, 2019, a copy of which is attached.

Council Specific Provisions and Amendments

    1. Future Amendments. In the event of any future amendment by the City administration to
       Executive Order 19-01, the Council shall automatically adopt such amendments unless within 60
       days of the amendment, the Council reviews and affirmatively declines to adopt such
       amendment or to adopt the amendment with modifications.
    2. Council travel plans shall be determined and approved during the annual budget process.

        a. Travel that was not anticipated during the budget process should be presented to the
           Council for approval on a case-by-case basis to determine intent and benefit in order for
           expenditures to be covered by the City Council budget.

    3. The following conferences have traditionally been pre-approved for attendance by Council
       Members:

            •   Utah League of Cities and Towns, Annual and Mid-Year Conferences (All Council
                Members and Council Executive Director)
            •   National League of Cities: Congressional City Conference or City Summit. (All Council
                Members and Council Executive Director; one conference per fiscal year)
            •   American Public Power Association: Legislative Rally or National Conference (All Council
                Members; one conference per fiscal year. Three Council Members from the Council
                Budget; Two Council Members from Power Department budget.subject to an invitation
                from the Power Department)
            •   UAMPS conference in August. (All Council Members; paid from the Power Department
                Budget.subject to an invitation from the Power Department)

    4. Council Members may be invited to participate in travel related to City matters sponsored by
       another City Department. Travel sponsored by another Department is subject to that
       Department’s travel budget and may be rotated between Council Members.

    5. Only one City Council Member may be approved for City related business travel during the time
       of a scheduled City Council meeting.

    6. Upon return, Council Members will work with the Council Director to schedule a time in a
       Committee of the Whole meeting to provide a follow-up report of their conference to the full
       council.

    5.7. A reimbursement request that is not consistent with the council’s travel policy may need to be
         approved by a majority of the council in a council meeting before a reimbursement is paid out.
               Policy changes recommended by Council Member Turner


   6.8. Council Members whose terms are terminating and have determined not to run for another
        term of office, shall not use Murray City funding to travel during the last six months of office,
        and those who have been defeated during elections and are leaving office in January shall not
        use Murray City funding to attend conferences unless serving as the official City representative
        on a board, committee, or other official body.


   7.9. Council Members are encouraged to attend training and educational seminars prior to taking
        office.



   8.10.       Council staff will coordinate with Council Members to make travel arrangements. If a
       Council Member would like to stay extra nights before or after a conference, they will be
       responsible to make their own hotel reservations. Extra hotel nights may not be reserved or
       paid for with a City issued credit card.



   9.11.       Family expenses, including tours, movies, mini-bar and other social events, will be the
       responsibility of each Council Member according to their usage. Council Members are
       responsible for turning in their receipts for reimbursement on all other covered expenses within
       ten (10) days of returning. These expenses include the following for each Council Member:
           a. Airline tickets and baggage expense
           b. Lodging expense
           c. Ground transportation (taxi, public transportation or rental car) to and from the Salt
               Lake City airport, from the destination airport to the lodging and back to the airport, and
               from the lodging to a council or conference sponsored event and back to the lodging.
           d. City related phone calls
           e. Parking expense at the airport or other long-term facilities


Revised and Approved: July 5, 2022
             Policy changes recommended by Council Member Dominguez

                               Murray City Council Travel Policy



The Murray City Municipal Council adopts, subject to the provisions below, the Murray City travel policy
put into effect by Executive Order 19-01 of July 7, 2019, a copy of which is attached.

Council Specific Provisions and Amendments

    1. Future Amendments. In the event of any future amendment by the City administration to
       Executive Order 19-01, the Council shall automatically adopt such amendments unless within 60
       days of the amendment, the Council reviews and affirmatively declines to adopt such
       amendment or to adopt the amendment with modifications.

    2. Council travel plans shall be determined and approved during the annual budget process.

        a. During the budget process each year, council members will be allocated up to $9,500 per
           council member to use towards travel and may attend any pre-approved conference(s) they
           would like until their allocated money is gone.

        b. The Council Director will keep track of each council members travel budget and update
           council members regularly.

        c. A council member must have enough allocated funds to completely cover all conference
           expenses (hotel, air, per diem, car rental, ground transportation, etc.) in order to attend a
           conference.

        d. A council member will repay the city any amount that is spent over their allocated funds.

        c.e. Travel that was not anticipated during the budget process should be presented to the
             Council for approval on a case-by-case basis to determine intent and benefit in order for
             expenditures to be covered by the City Council budget.

    3. The following conferences have traditionally been pre-approved for attendance by Council
       MembersHistorically, Council Members have attended the following conferences:

            •   Utah League of Cities and Towns, Annual and Mid-Year Conferences (All Council
                Members and Council Executive Director)
            •   Utah League of Cities and Towns Mid-Year Conference
            •   National League of Cities: Congressional City Conference or
            •   National League of Cities City Summit. (All Council Members and Council Executive
                Director; one conference per fiscal year)
            •   American Public Power Association: Legislative Rally or (at least one Council Member
                should be sent to this conference.)
            •   American Public Power Association National Conference (All Council Members; one
                conference per fiscal year. Three Council Members from the Council Budget; Two
         Policy changes recommended by Council Member Dominguez

            Council Members from Power Department budget.)(at least one Council Member should
            have be sent to this conference.)
        •   UAMPS conference in August. (All Council Members; paid from the Power Department
            Budget.)
        •   Utah Land Use Institute Annual Land Use Conference
        •   ULCT Elected Officials Essentials
        •   ULCT Local Officials Day
        •   American Planning Association
        •   ICSC Las Vegas
        •

4. Council Members may be invited to participate in travel related to City matters sponsored by
   another City Department. Travel sponsored byinvitations from another Department is are
   subject to that Department’sthe City Council’s travel budget and may be rotated between
   Council Members.

5. Only one City Council Member may be approved for City related business travel during the time
   of a scheduled City Council meeting.

6. Upon return, Council Members will work with the Council Director to schedule time in a
   Committee of the Whole meeting to provide a follow-up report to the full Council.

6.7. Council Members whose terms are terminating and have determined not to run for another
     term of office, shall not use Murray City funding to travel during the last six months of office,
     and those who have been defeated during elections and are leaving office in January shall not
     use Murray City funding to attend conferences unless serving as the official City representative
     on a board, committee, or other official body.

7.8. Council Members are encouraged to attend training and educational seminars prior to taking
     office.

8.9. Council staff will coordinate with Council Members to make travel arrangements. If a Council
     Member would like to stay extra nights before or after a conference, they will be responsible to
     make their own hotel reservations. Extra hotel nights may not be reserved or paid for with a
     City issued credit card.

9.10.       Family expenses, including tours, movies, mini-bar and other social events, will be the
    responsibility of each Council Member according to their usage. Council Members are
    responsible for turning in their receipts for reimbursement on all other covered expenses within
    ten (10) days of returning. These expenses include the following for each Council Member:
        a. Airline tickets and baggage expense
        b. Lodging expense
        c. Ground transportation (taxi, public transportation or rental car) to and from the Salt
            Lake City airport, from the destination airport to the lodging and back to the airport, and
            from the lodging to a council or conference sponsored event and back to the lodging.
        d. City related phone calls
            Policy changes recommended by Council Member Dominguez

           e. Parking expense at the airport or other long-term facilities


Revised and Approved: July 5, 2022
                Policy changes recommended by Council Member Cotter

                               Murray City Council Travel Policy



The Murray City Municipal Council adopts, subject to the provisions below, the Murray City travel policy
put into effect by Executive Order 19-01 of July 7, 2019, a copy of which is attached.

Council Specific Provisions and Amendments

    1. Future Amendments. In the event of any future amendment by the City administration to
       Executive Order 19-01, the Council shall automatically adopt such amendments unless within 60
       days of the amendment, the Council reviews and affirmatively declines to adopt such
       amendment or to adopt the amendment with modifications.

    2. Council travel plans shall be determined and approved during the annual budget process.

        a. During the budget process each year, council members will be allocated up to $5,800 per
           council member to use towards travel and may attend any pre-approved conference(s) they
           would like until their allocated money is gone. Allocated travel funds may not be shared
           between council members.

        b. The Council Director will keep track of each council members travel budget and update
           council members regularly.

        c. A council member must have enough allocated funds to completely cover all conference
           expenses (hotel, air, per diem, car rental, ground transportation, etc.) in order to attend a
           conference.

        d. A council member will repay the city any amount that is spent over their allocated funds.

        c.e. Travel that was not anticipated during the budget process should be presented to the
             Council for approval on a case-by-case basis to determine intent and benefit in order for
             expenditures to be covered by the City Council budget.

    3. The following conferences have traditionally been pre-approved for attendance by Council
       Members:

            •   Utah League of Cities and Towns, Annual and Mid-Year Conferences (All Council
                Members and Council Executive Director)
            •   Utah League of Cities and Towns Mid-Year Conference
            •   National League of Cities: Congressional City Conference or
            •   National League of Cities City Summit. (All Council Members and Council Executive
                Director; one conference per fiscal year)
            •   American Public Power Association: Legislative Rally or
            •   American Public Power Association National Conference (All Council Members; one
                conference per fiscal year. Three Council Members from the Council Budget; Two
                Council Members from Power Department budget.)
            Policy changes recommended by Council Member Cotter

        •   UAMPS conference in August. (All Council Members; paid from the Power Department
            Budget.)
        •   Utah Land Use Institute Annual Land Use Conference
        •   ULCT Elected Officials Essentials
        •   ULCT Local Officials Day
        •   American Planning Association
        •   ICSC Las Vegas
        •

4. Council Members may be invited to participate in travel related to City matters sponsored by
   another City Department. Travel sponsored by another Department is subject to that
   Department’s travel budget and may be rotated between Council Members.

5.4. Only one City Council Member may be approved for City related business travel during the time
     of a scheduled City Council meeting.

5. Upon return, Council Members will work with the Council Director to schedule time in a
   Committee of the Whole meeting to provide a follow-up report to the full Council.

6. Council Members whose terms are terminating and have determined not to run for another
   term of office, shall not use Murray City funding to travel during the last six months of office,
   and those who have been defeated during elections and are leaving office in January shall not
   use Murray City funding to attend conferences unless serving as the official City representative
   on a board, committee, or other official body.

7. Council Members are encouraged to attend training and educational seminars prior to taking
   office.

8. Council staff will coordinate with Council Members to make travel arrangements. If a Council
   Member would like to stay extra nights before or after a conference, they will be responsible to
   make their own hotel reservations. Extra hotel nights may not be reserved or paid for with a
   City issued credit card.

9. Family expenses, including tours, movies, mini-bar and other social events, will be the
   responsibility of each Council Member according to their usage. Council Members are
   responsible for turning in their receipts for reimbursement on all other covered expenses within
   ten (10) days of returning. These expenses include the following for each Council Member:
       a. Airline tickets and baggage expense
       b. Lodging expense
       c. Ground transportation (taxi, public transportation or rental car) to and from the Salt
           Lake City airport, from the destination airport to the lodging and back to the airport, and
           from the lodging to a council or conference sponsored event and back to the lodging.
       d. City related phone calls
       e. Parking expense at the airport or other long-term facilities
               Policy changes recommended by Council Member Cotter

Revised and Approved: July 5, 2022
                                                                                FY2023 - 2024 Travel and Learning
                                                                                         (10-0101-42125)

                                     Registration Fee    Hotel      Per Diem   Mileage       Airfare         Miic     Total per Person   Mutiply by 5 or 6   Total for Council                     Notes
                                                                                                                                                                                 (1) Historically this conference has
                                                                                                                                                                                 been paid for by the Power
UAMPS Conference - Jackson Hole                                                                                                                                                  Department and is not included in
Wyoming - August 2023                      $0.00        $804.36     $266.00    $343.36        $0.00          $0.00       $1,413.72              5               $7,068.60        the council's travel budget.

ULCT Salt Lake City - October 2023        $510.00        $0.00       $0.00      $0.00         $0.00          $0.00        $510.00               6               $3,060.00        (2)

Utah Land Use Institute Land Use
Training - October 2024                   $335.00        $0.00       $0.00      $0.00         $0.00          $0.00        $335.00               5               $1,675.00

                                                                                                                                                                                 This is an estimate since no one from
NLC City Summit-November 2023                                                                                                                                                    the council has ever attended this
Atlanta, GA                               $700.00       $1,000.00   $250.00                  $500.00                     $2,450.00              5              $12,250.00        conference

                                                                                                                                                                                 This training is geared towards newly
ULCT Elected Officials Essentials          $60.00                                                                         $60.00                5                $300.00         elected officials

ULCT Local Officials Day
January 2024                              $100.00        $0.00       $0.00      $0.00         $0.00          $0.00        $100.00               6                $600.00         (3)


                                                                                                                                                                                 (4) Misc is $100 for ground
                                                                                                                                                                                 transportation and $50 for airport
                                                                                                                                                                                 parking. Airfare is an average of what
APPA Legislative Rally                                                                                                                                                           was paid per councilmember to
February 2024                             $750.00       $1,500.00   $276.50     $0.00       $1,670.00       $150.00      $4,346.50              5              $21,732.50        attend this conference in 2023

                                                                                                                                                                                 (5) Airfare is an average of what was
NLC Congressional City Conference                                                                                                                                                paid per councilmember to attend
Washtington DC - March 2024               $750.00       $1,005.00   $276.50     $0.00        $690.00         $0.00       $2,721.50              5              $13,607.50        the conference in 2023

                                                                                                                                                                                 This is a conference council members
                                                                                                                                                                                 may be interested in attending. The
                                                                                                                                                                                 cost is an estimate since no one from
American Planning Association -                                                                                                                                                  the council has ever attended this
April 2024                                                                                                               $5,000.00              5              $25,000.00        conference

ULCT Mid-Year Conference
St. Geroge - April 2024                   $355.00       $404.00     $177.00    $327.00        $0.00          $0.00       $1,263.00              6               $7,578.00

                                                                                                                                                                                 (6)
ICSC Las Vegas - May 2024                 $975.00       $377.50     $241.50     $0.00        $247.20        $60.00       $1,901.20              3               $5,703.60        $60 Misc Fee was for baggage

                                                                                                                                                                                 Airfare is an estimate.
                                                                                                                                                                                 Misc is $150 for ground
                                                                                                                                                                                 transportation and $150 for airport
APPA Conference - June 2024              $1,325.00      $1,600.00   $513.50     $0.00       $1,000.00       $300.00      $4,738.50              5              $23,692.50        parking
                                                                                                          FY2023 - 2024 Travel and Learning
                                                                                                                        (10-0101-42125)

                                        Registration Fee          Hotel             Per Diem             Mileage             Airfare               Miic          Total per Person   Mutiply by 5 or 6    Total for Council                  Notes
Various Workshops                                                                                                                                                                                            $280.00

Training Class for Pattie                                                                                                                                                                                    $250.00


           Travel and Learning Total:                                                                                                                                  $24,839.42                          $122,797.70



Notes
(1) UAMPS Conference August 2023 – This conference has been historically paid for by the Power Department. Last time the council went was in 2019. According to the paperwork I found, the cost for each council member to attend this conference was
$1,414 each (air, hotel, per diem). There was no registration fee noted on any of the travel request forms for this conference. With a 10% inflation rate, if the council wanted to add this conference to their budget, I would estimate it to be $1,555 each
(times 5 = $7,775 total). 4/12/2023 - Spoke with Michelle in the Power Department. She said there is no registration fee for the UAMPS Conference.


(2) ULCT October 2023 – This is a local conference that all councilmembers and the council director attend. The cost last year was $485 per person. I added a 5% price increase for 2023 and rounded up to $510 per person (times 6 = $3,060)


(3) ULCT Local Officials Day January 2024 – Same as last year, budgeted $100 for all councilmembers and the council director to attend.


(4) APPA Legislative Rally February 2024 – Historically the Power Department has invited, and paid for, two councilmembers to attend this conference, however, there have been recent discussions on whether all councilmembers should have the option to
attend this conference. In FY 2022, two councilmembers attended this conference and it was paid for by the power department. The cost for the registration fee, ledging, per diem, airport parking and ground transportation for each councilmember was
$2,7676.50. Airfare ranged from $1,300 to 2,038 (average of $1,670). I added the conference cost to the average of the airfare to budget for next year. I budgeted $4,346.50 for each councilmember to attend this conference in FY 2023.


(5) NLC Washington DC March 2024 – In FY 2022 the cost for the conference, hotel and per diem was $2,031.50. The average cost of airfare was $690. Total per councilmember to attend the conference is $2,721.50; not including any pre-conference
sessions which generally cost around $185 per session.

(6) Councilmembers are invited by the Mayor and the conference is paid for by RDA
Adjournment
