Council Meeting
March 21, 2023
                        Murray City Municipal Council
                             Notice of Meeting
                                       March 21, 2023
                                      Murray City Center
                          5025 South State Street, Murray, Utah 84107


Meeting Agenda

4:15 p.m.      Committee of the Whole – Conference Room #107
               Garry Hrechkosy conducting

Approval of Minutes
      City Council Initiatives Workshop – February 15, 2023
      Committee of the Whole – February 21, 2023

Discussion Items
       1. Discussion on an ordinance amending the City's Fiscal Year 2022-2023 budget. Brenda
           Moore presenting. (10 minutes)
       2. Discussion on code related to storm water and solid waste transfers. Brenda Moore
           presenting. (10 minutes)
       3. Discussion on an ordinance updating power rates. Blaine Haacke presenting. (30
           minutes)

Adjournment

Break for Redevelopment Agency Meeting (Separate Agenda)

The public may view the Council Meeting via the live stream at www.murraycitylive.com or
https://www.facebook.com/Murraycityutah/. Those wishing to have their comments read into the record
may send an email by 5:00 p.m. the day prior to the meeting date to city.council@murray.utah.gov.
Comments are limited to less than three minutes (approximately 300 words for emails) and must include
your name and address.

6:30 p.m.      Council Meeting – Council Chambers
               Diane Turner conducting.
Opening Ceremonies
   Call to Order
   Pledge of Allegiance

Approval of Minutes
   Council Meeting – March 7, 2023

Special Recognition
   1. Employee of the Month – Wendy Saunders. Diane Turner and Mayor Hales presenting.
   2. Consideration of a Joint Resolution for Child Abuse Prevention. Mayor Hales and Sheri
       Van Bibber presenting.

Citizen Comments
    Comments will be limited to three minutes, step to the microphone, state your name and
    city of residence, and fill out the required form.
Murray City Council Agenda
March 21, 2023                                                                                                                 2


Consent Agenda
   None Scheduled.

Public Hearing
   Staff, sponsor presentations and public comment will be given prior to Council action on the
   following matter.

    1. Consider a resolution approving the donation of city services and/or nonmonetary
       assistance to the Navajo Tribal Utility Authority's "Light Up Navajo" initiative project.
       Blaine Haacke presenting.

Business Items
   1. Consider a resolution authorizing the execution of an interlocal cooperation agreement
       between the City and the Board of Education of the Murray City School District regarding
       the conveyance by the City of real property of which the City will continue to own,
       operate, and maintain the Murray City Library. G.L. Critchfield presenting.
   2. Consider a resolution authorizing the execution of an interlocal cooperation agreement
       between the City and the Board of Education of the Murray City School District to provide
       for a ground lease of property owned by the board of education of the Murray City School
       District Located at 166 East 5300 South Street. G.L. Critchfield presenting.

Mayor’s Report and Questions

Adjournment
                                                            NOTICE

Supporting materials are available for inspection on the Murray City website at www.murray.utah.gov.

Special accommodations for the hearing or visually impaired will be made upon a request to the office of the Murray City Recorder
(801-264-2663). We would appreciate notification two working days prior to the meeting. TTY is Relay Utah at #711.

Council Members may participate in the meeting via telephonic communication. If a Council Member does participate via
telephonic communication, the Council Member will be on speaker phone. The speaker phone will be amplified so that the other
Council Members and all other persons present in the Council Chambers will be able to hear all discussions.

On Friday, March 17, 2023, at 9:00 a.m., a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of the
Murray City Center, Murray, Utah. Copies of this notice were provided for the news media in the Office of the City Recorder. A
copy of this notice was posted on Murray City’s internet website www.murray.utah.gov. and the state noticing website at
http://pmn.utah.gov .




                                                                     Jennifer Kennedy
                                                                     Council Executive Director
                                                                     Murray City Municipal Council
 Committee
of the Whole
 Committee
of the Whole
   Minutes
                             MURRAY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                              City Council Initiatives Workshop
                                       Meeting Minutes
                                 Wednesday February 15, 2023
      Murray City Center - 5025 South State Street, Council Chambers, Murray, Utah 84107

Attendance:
Council Members and others:
    Garry Hrechkosy – Chair     District #5
    Phil Markham – Vice Chair   District #1
    Pam Cotter                  District #2
    Rosalba Dominguez           District #3
    Diane Turner                District #4

Brett Hales        Mayor                        Jennifer Kennedy    City Council Executive Director
Doug Hill          Chief Administrative Officer Pattie Johnson      Council Administration
Tammy Kikuchi      Chief Communications Officer Blaine Haacke       Power Department Manager
G.L. Critchfield   City Attorney                Brenda Moore        Finance Director

Welcome/Introductions – Council Chair Hrechkosy began the workshop at 12:01 p.m.

Initiative Items:
  • City donations to private and civic groups – Mr. Markham wanted to ensure that all Council
       Members were in agreement with how the City would give financial donations. Because an official
       process for making donations was currently non-existent, he proposed that all contributions begin
       with a request by application, with the exception of in-kind donations. He felt accountability was
       vital, applicants should be better organized in asking, budgetary plans for spending should be
       provided and an explanation about how donations benefit the City overall should be required. To
       be more transparent, follow up reporting should occur more often to show that the intention was
       actually met.

      Mr. Hrechkosy agreed the process should be reviewed. Mr. Critchfield confirmed the City had not
      discussed the matter at great length if ever. State law allows the City to waive fees for non-profit
      organizations, but cash donations required a public hearing process that involves having criteria
      from the applicant.

      He said the ordinance was designed more for incentivizing than it was for giving to non-profit
      agencies. The conversation nationwide has always been that cash donations should not be given to
      non-profits, which was why the Council would need to find a public purpose for a donation. He
      stressed that they would need to identify the specific authority that allowed a city to give cash,
      which he has never found nationwide. One proper way the City contributed by donation was to
      NeighborWorks because statutory authority was given to address homelessness and housing
      provisions. He clarified that once public purpose was confirmed for donating and the authority
      given was established the Council could then request budget information from an applicant prior to
      a final donation. Mr. Critchfield would provide a memo at the February 21, 2023 Committee of the
      Whole meeting to explain parameters for appropriating donations to private entities within Utah
      Code.

  •   Changes to the MCCD (Murray City Center District) Code – Ms. Cotter wanted to confirm that
      decisions made by the Council from the MCCD Zone Workshop held August 10, 2022 were
Murray City Municipal Council
Workshop
February 15, 2023                                   DRAFT                                              Page 2


       recognized in the coming zone changes. Mr. Hrechkosy said specific direction was given that day to
       CED (Community and Economic Development) Director, Mr. Hall who was finalizing the requested
       changes and will be presenting them soon.

  •    Council Travel Policy – Ms. Cotter said she studied the City Council Travel Policy in order to discuss
       what meetings and conferences Council Members could attend and to confirm how often travel
       was allowed. Her hope was to find out how others felt about the current policy. She noted that
       according to the travel policy, not all Council Members should attend all conferences within the
       same fiscal year. Ms. Kennedy confirmed. Ms. Cotter compared conferences related to energy
       legislation and national legislative issues and clarified going to both power meetings was not an
       option according to policy and they must choose between the two. Ms. Kennedy agreed.

       Ms. Turner thought the policy should be changed regarding power related conferences. Ms. Cotter
       agreed that Council Members should be in compliance with the travel policy and compared travel
       expenditures allocated from the power department budget with those in the council budget. She
       felt all Council Members should have the option to attend all meetings if future budgets allowed.
       Ms. Dominguez agreed learning was valuable to all of them whether it be a local, federal, or power
       related conference. Ms. Kennedy explained that historically travel to power related conferences
       did not include the entire City Council and initially the Council Chair and Vice-Chair were the only
       two invited by the power department.

       There was a discussion about how travel budgets were changed prior to and during the pandemic
       and how both power department and City Council budgets could be readjusted if more travel was
       necessary. Ms. Turner said as the City’s Power Board, Council Members had responsibility for
       understanding national energy legislation. Mr. Hrechkosy suggested Council Members report back
       all that was learned from any conference to the others who did not attend a meeting. There was
       consensus to revise the policy to reflect that all Council Members have the option to attend all
       conferences if they chose to.

  •    Loans to Businesses – Ms. Dominguez hoped to move a proposed loan program forward that was
       devised by CED staff. Loans would help incentivize existing Murray businesses and entice new
       businesses to move to downtown Murray. The pilot program would be organized for the downtown
       and Cherry Street areas only and act in conjunction with the Murray RDA (Redevelopment Agency).
       Ms. Moore clarified the City cannot give out business loans, but proposed loan funding could
       possibly come through the RDA.

       Mr. Critchfield stated he was not aware that RDA funds could be utilized this way. He said RDA
       money could be used for infrastructure and housing elements but not for incentive loans, or
       forgivable loans as indicated by CED staff. He advised the Council, as the Trustees of the City’s
       money, they had no authority to provide loans through the RDA since that money was collected
       from other entities to begin with. He stressed the difference between planning and economic
       development, was about who is initiating it. The issue with the proposed loan program was that
       the City would essentially be providing income to businesses, which was not the same thing as giving
       a donation. He clarified one RDA area may loan funds to another RDA area but there was no statute
       about giving loans to businesses through the RDA as a stimulant for growth. He explained two
       requirements where first there must be statutory authority, which is what allows a city to give
Murray City Municipal Council
Workshop
February 15, 2023                                  DRAFT                                             Page 3


       financial donations, and second a determined corporate public purpose for the money, before any
       donation occurs to individuals or an individual entity. He said the City simply cannot give money if
       these two requirements are not met; when both requirements are met, a donation can move
       forward. He would continue to research the matter.

  •    City Council Calendar – Ms. Cotter said the issue was resolved.

  •    Two-year appointments for Chairs, Vice-Chairs and Committees – Ms. Cotter proposed that all
       council, committee, and board representative positions be changed to a solid two-year commitment
       from the existing one-year amount of time. She felt one year within the four-year term was not
       enough time for understanding functions, learning responsibilities, and knowing the procedures of
       those positions and entities. She suggested the new two- year limit start next year. Mr. Hrechkosy
       agreed it was best to make that changed in January of 2024. Ms. Turner said in the past, council
       members could hold a position or represent an entity as long as desired, then it changed to the one-
       year policy which included a two-year limit. Discussion ensued about whether to change the policy
       or leave it as it was. Mr. Markham agreed a two-year commitment for representation made sense.
       Ms. Dominguez disagreed and said the current policy worked effectively and favored the changing
       of responsibilities each year. Mr. Hrechkosy said more discussion was needed to make the best
       decision. A final determination was not made.

  •    MYCC (Murray Youth City Council) – Ms. Cotter said this item should be moved to a Committee of
       the Whole meeting for better discussion. She said hearing from Ms. Van Bibber would be important
       because she spent years organizing the existing MYCC, and Ms. Van Bibber had a vision for the MYCC
       different from a proposed City run program. More input and information could be shared between
       all to determine who should oversee the MYCC in a work session. All agreed to hear from Ms. Van
       Bibber.

       Mr. Hill confirmed the MYCC began in 1990 and was overseen by the mayor’s office, it moved to the
       Murray Parks and Recreation department for many years, then Ms. Van Bibber took control in 2008
       when she began making annual financial requests to support her program. Since then the City has
       donated $2,500 each year to help run it. He reported Mayor Hales met with Ms. Cotter and Ms.
       Van Bibber to discuss moving the program back to the care of the City which would be proposed at
       the next fiscal year tentative budget meeting. This was the direction they were moving so Council
       Members would learn more when the new budget was presented to them. It would include a new
       line item in the Murray Parks and Rec budget to hire part-time staff and show associated costs to
       run the MYCC under the City.

       Ms. Dominguez noted a Salt Lake City program involving a smaller number of students that was
       focused on learning functions of governmental municipalities and the MYCC only does service
       projects. Ms. Cotter said the MYCC involves 67 students. Mayor Hales said if Ms. Van Bibber wanted
       to continue running the program herself, the City would continue to support her with an annual
       $2,500 donation, but if it returned to city control the City would have a new way of running it. Ms.
       Dominguez felt the City could still devise its own youth city council program regardless. Ms. Turner
       said there was no accountability with the current program which would be more apparent under
       the City. Mr. Hrechkosy tabled the item until the last part of the meeting and moved to the next
       item.
Murray City Municipal Council
Workshop
February 15, 2023                                   DRAFT                                              Page 4




  •    MCCD Guidelines – Ms. Dominguez wanted to ensure that changes to the MCCD were
       implemented, particularly for the current City Hall property. Mr. Hill confirmed next steps would
       be presented at the March 7, 2023 council meeting by Mr. Hall who would review all the
       recommendations of the Murray City Planning Commission and City staff related to updating the
       MCCD Zone. Changes related to the current City hall site are for height, open space, and parking.

       Then Mr. Hall would discuss areas north of Vine Street on both east and west sides of State Street
       where he wants to hire a consultant to help with historic downtown planning. He also hoped to
       organize a citizen committee to help design downtown and develop architectural standards like
       building materials and features for the City. Based on recommendations from that committee, a
       draft ordinance would be presented to the City Council in the future. If approved, plans to re-market
       Block One would start all over again according to the new ordinance.

       Mr. Markham stated it was maddening that the City must start from square-one all over again. He
       felt that year after year, for many years, plans for developing downtown Murray would stall and
       become nothing. He said although he understood the process of development, it was frustrating
       that a decision could not be made by now, by past council members. Ms. Dominguez agreed the
       City was now moving in the right direction.

  •    Adding additional charging stations to public areas and new developments – Ms. Turner proposed
       a requirement that EVCs (electric vehicle charging stations) be part of any new building construction
       in the City. Mr. Haacke said Mr. Hall must be included in that process as part of building inspections
       and the power department should be involved due to the heavy load of energy required by EVCs.
       He explained that if 24 Tesla EVCs were all operating at once, the energy requirement of 500 to 600
       kilowatts would immediately be added to the system, which was equal to enough energy to power
       Costco. Mr. Haacke confirmed last year Murray Power had to increase their energy needs when
       two EVCs were installed in Murray Park, a new transformer station was constructed just for six
       chargers. This was why the power department must be involved in the formulation of any new
       policy.

       Ms. Moore reported the total cost was $143,000 for three high-speed EVCs or six chargers in Murray
       Park that included construction of a new transformer station. In one year, so far six chargers
       collected $3,000. At the new city hall site, two level-two EVCs were installed where units would
       charge a car for 4 hours and utilize the new building’s transformer system. Based on what the city
       would charge for using those EVCs, it would take 50 years to pay back that cost which was $24,000.

       Ms. Turner said not everything the City did was to make money. Ms. Cotter noted taxpayers and
       developers would fund much of those costs. Mr. Haacke agreed the power department pays for
       upgrades to the system for EVCs. He explained that if five cars in a cul-de-sac used high-speed EVCs
       all at once, a shared transformer would melt.

       Mr. Markham said developers should specify planning information to the power department ahead
       of time to see if energy requirements could be met or not. Ms. Turner thought a ten-dollar fee
       could be charged to homeowners who already have them. Ms. Moore thought that would help
       track EVCs throughout the City. Mr. Haacke shared recently that in Fillmore, 20 EVCs along
Murray City Municipal Council
Workshop
February 15, 2023                                  DRAFT                                             Page 5


       Interstate 15 were all being used at once, that required energy was equivalent to the amount
       needed to power the whole town of Fillmore. The initiative would need more review.

  •    Further Discussion - Council Travel Policy – Ms. Cotter reviewed policy again pertaining to the
       power department paying for two council members to attend one power conference and the
       council budget would cover three members to attend the other power conference. She noted
       council members may not attend both conferences in the same year. Ms. Turner felt that was
       wrong. Ms. Kennedy clarified the City’s travel policy was different from the City Council’s travel
       policy.

       Mr. Hill said there was always question about who would pay for the Council to travel to legislative
       power conferences. He confirmed that different mayors in the past have handled the situation
       differently and thought moving forward the Council should travel according to their own travel
       allowance and not rely on the power department any more. Ms. Cotter suggested the Council travel
       budget be reanalyzed. Mayor Hales supported either decision but communication with the power
       department should continue if power funds would be utilized for council travel to power related
       travel.

       Mr. Hrechkosy expressed concern about transparency and thought the City Council Travel Policy
       should be accurate and reflect exactly what travel was occurring. Ms. Kennedy asked for direction
       in updating the policy. After further discussion, Council Members favored the option of being able
       to travel to whatever conferences they wanted to without limit. It was agreed to let the power
       department handle power related travel details and Ms. Kennedy would increase travel cost
       estimates in the next proposed council budget.

       Council Compensation – Ms. Turner initiated again that Council Members needed a raise. She said
       good pay was how people knew they were valued, the Council was not paid well, and never would
       be, and as a five-member city council, the increase was overdue. She stated that the proposed
       increase was not intended for her, but for future council members who may need childcare, or pay
       for campaigning costs and to make a living wage. Ms. Turner suggested the base pay be increased
       to $20,000 and said if there was no support, she would drop the matter again. She asked each
       member for a verbal vote.

       Ms. Kennedy reported that the last time the Council approved their own wage increase was in a
       public hearing in 1995; and each council member also received the annual COLA (Cost-of-Living
       Adjustment) increase when implemented. She confirmed, including last year’s COLA, the current
       base salary was now $17,079. She conducted a survey to compare salaries with other city councils
       and noted that Bountiful City comparative in size was paid less than the Murray City Council.

       Mr. Hrechkosy pointed out that their total compensation should be considered. The Council receives
       an allowance piece that is separate from their base pay, so really their total monthly wage was
       $24,000. Ms. Kennedy confirmed that was correct. He noted that Council Members also receive an
       iPad and maybe instead of that, a stipend be given to future members which would increase income
       if they chose not to spend it. He strongly felt that since council members are elected officials and
       not city employees, the COLA given to them should be considered a raise.
Murray City Municipal Council
Workshop
February 15, 2023                                   DRAFT                                                Page 6


       Ms. Turner said a COLA is not always given each year. Mr. Hrechkosy said council members are not
       hired city employees who preform daily services in keeping the city in operation. Council Members
       were responsible to citizens and not to the Mayor’s directors or staff for meeting city needs like
       providing power, repairing streets or any other function of running the city. Ms. Turner disagreed
       and asked for support. Mr. Hrechkosy tabled the item until later in the meeting.
         • Mr. Markham said he would not support the increase.
         • Ms. Cotter did not favor the increase and noted benefits the council received like retirement,
             health insurance, and money for travel expenses that she considered an increase.
         • Ms. Dominguez favored the raise. She thought the increase would help motivate others to
             run for office, that normally would not.

  •    Single use plastic bags – Ms. Turner discussed her proposal to ban plastic bags in Murray that she
       first initiated in 2019 when the draft ordinance was created. She said the initiative died when the
       pandemic occurred, because plastic bags were the only preferred option in stores for safety reasons.

       Mr. Markham suggested the item be discussed in a work session to learn the details. Ms. Turner
       shared that a public open house was held on May 14, 2019 to bring awareness about the plastic bag
       ban she proposed. Ms. Kennedy shared about what States successfully banned plastic bags, and
       what States could not ban them due to legislation. Mr. Hrechkosy noted Logan, Moab, and Park
       City as three Utah cities that banned plastic bags by ordinance; however, Logan has rescinded their
       ordinance. Ms. Turner confirmed Utah State Legislation does not allow a charge for using plastic
       bags, so this proposal would be a complete ban in opposition to Utah legislation and the City would
       be required to present the proposal in a public hearing.

       Mr. Hrechkosy suggested another open house be held since four new current Council Members
       were not familiar with past details. Ms. Dominguez and Ms. Cotter agreed. Ms. Kennedy would
       provide the minutes from the May 14, 2019 open house. Ms. Turner said the plastic bag ban was
       important to residents in her district, but she did not know how others felt about it. Mr. Hrechkosy
       suggested Ms. Turner bring the proposal forward at her next Association of Municipal Councils
       board meeting to lead the way for other cities to join the effort.

       Ms. Cotter would not support the proposal and shared about a Utah organization called Stitching
       Hearts that makes mattresses for the homeless from plastic bags collected from stores that recycle
       them. She said the City Council should not be telling citizens what they can and cannot do and the
       item should be handled at the State level. There was consensus to discuss it in a work session to
       ensure new council members understood the proposal.

  •    Alternative Fuel Vehicles for the City – Ms. Turner discussed a savings account she initiated in the
       General Fund to save for purchasing EV (electric vehicles) and electric machinery. Ms. Moore
       confirmed the City contributes $30,000 each budget cycle, which was now $85,000 after some
       purchases were made. Ms. Turner hoped the savings contribution would continue to support future
       purchases. Mr. Hrechkosy suggested an inventory be taken of what city vehicles and machinery
       could be transitioned to electric or hybrid in the future, since it was determined that electric options
       were not conducive to all city production. All council members were in favor of continuing the
       savings plan.
Murray City Municipal Council
Workshop
February 15, 2023                                   DRAFT                                               Page 7


  •    Water Ordinance – Mr. Hrechkosy proposed measures continue for conserving water. He had
       concern that citizens might assume the long drought was over and increased consumption would
       occur due to the record snowfall this year. He proposed what could be done to keep drought
       awareness in the forefront.

       Mr. Markham said the City took a good step to implement the tiered water rate system which
       caused many to monitor water waste more carefully and watch water bills closely. Mr. Hrechkosy
       wondered if the tier-rate was steep enough to make a difference. Ms. Turner said the current
       ordinance was effective that restricts watering to two or three times per week during certain hours
       of the day. Mr. Hales shared how the education piece was most effective in getting citizens to
       understand on their own the importance of reducing water use. Ms. Dominguez agreed but felt
       some Murray businesses do not comply well.

       Mr. Hill said citizens can report water wasters to the City and agreed the five-tiered rate system was
       most affective in getting the attention of residents to improve water conservation. He said a great
       deal of information was shared on the City’s website, in their monthly newsletter, in mass email, on
       all social media, and in the Murray Journal in order to reach all citizens about issues including water
       conservation. There was consensus to continue with the current ordinance that would become
       standard practice of all Murray citizens regardless of snowfall.

  •    Residential turf requirements – Mr. Hrechkosy discussed City landscape requirements for parking
       strips and the City’s Flip Your Strip program to remove grass from parking strips. He said regulations
       were not followed properly like having separate sprinkler systems or drip systems and the
       requirement to have 60% live plant material. If the idea was to save water, he suggested City Code
       be revised because many parking strips contain crushed rock or cement.

       Mr. Hill discussed why no resolution had ever come about regarding what citizens do with parking
       strips; he confirmed the ordnance required live plant material and trees in parking strips. He said
       Murray prides itself on being Tree City USA for the last 40 years, promoted by Murray’s Shade Tree
       Commission who require that street trees be required in parking strips of all new construction. The
       question still remains whether the City should enforce the Code or not because the biggest problem
       is that citizens replaced turf with concrete or boulders which is not in compliance. With so many
       citizens in violation it would be overwhelming for the City’s legal team to handle all violation cases,
       so the order has become an unenforceable ordinance. Mayor Hales agreed the same situation
       occurred with the City’s Idle Free ordinance, which was never enforced, and never would be, but
       signage provides a clear message that the City cares about air quality.

       Mr. Hrechkosy favored concrete and boulders in parking strips and said many xeriscapes areas are
       not well maintain and have become weed beds. His initiative is to get rid of the live plant
       requirement to promote better water conservation. Ms. Cotter said utility easements exist in many
       parking strips so those areas should not be covered in concrete. Ms. Dominguez agreed other utility
       lines for water and gas also run beneath parking strips that are often replace or repaired. Mr. Hill
       agreed the City would need to know when residents plan to use cement in parking strip areas and
       suggested Mr. Hrechkosy communicate with the Shade Tree Commission who handled this issue.

  •    Splashpad/ice rink restoration – Mr. Hrechkosy proposed that the old outdoor ice-skating rink in
Murray City Municipal Council
Workshop
February 15, 2023                                  DRAFT                                             Page 8


       Murray Park become a splash pad area in summer and restored to an outdoor ice-skating rink in
       winter. He felt it was a great way to provide an open area to bring people together, increase
       walkability and create a new community feel. He knew the City discussed plans for a splashpad in
       the past, however it was not in combination with an ice-rink. He suggested refreshing the bid and
       begin new research to accomplish the potential project.

       Mr. Markham thought input from the Parks and Recreation Advisory board was needed first and
       the Council should review the City’s Parks and Recreation Master Plan, because facilities are
       programed in specific priority. He said this was a wonderful idea, but the outdoor pool leak was
       greater and should be resolved first. With two new parks just adopted by the City significant
       improvements and ongoing maintenance needed to be addressed also. Mr. Hrechkosy agreed.

  •    Unnecessary ordinances/regulations assessment – Mr. Hrechkosy proposed that outdated
       ordinances be researched to find out how many are unenforceable. He thought if the City was not
       going to enforce an ordinance, laws should be removed from Code even if messaging was effective.
       He asked if more enforcement officers and legal staff were needed to uphold these enforcements
       or should old ordinances or relics not applicable to the City be completely removed.

       Mr. Markham noted approximately 340 pages of zoning codes alone, which would be a larger task
       to review all of Murray Code. Mr. Hrechkosy said the task would be ongoing. Mr. Markham
       suggested each department examine ordinances that apply to them, to find outdated items. Mr.
       Hrechkosy favored the idea. Ms. Dominguez said police officers and code enforcement officers
       would know best what ordinances are not commonly applicable. Mr. Hrechkosy agreed.

  •    Continued discussion: MYCC – Council members recapped about whether the City should operate
       the MYCC with less students, or if Ms. Van Bibber should continue overseeing the MYCC. There was
       discussion about combining the MYCC between the administration and the City Council because
       there was value to learning both sides of government. Mr. Critchfield advised the decision to be
       made after Mr. Sorenson devised a potential budget for operating MYCC under the Murray Parks
       and Recreation department. All were in agreement that Ms. Van Bibber would also need to decide
       how she would like to move forward. Mr. Hill said Mr. Sorensen and staff would continue planning
       their proposed vision and speak to Ms. Van Bibber. The administration would present to the Council
       in a Committee of the Whole with Ms. Van Bibber to brain storm and share ideas. This would
       happen after the new fiscal year, after the new budget was approved, after the city program was
       developed, and after staff understands the direction of the MYCC. All agreed.

  •    Continued discussion - Council Compensation: Mr. Hrechkosy learned from Ms. Moore that the
       reason Council Members did not always receive the COLA was that the City did not even implement
       a COLA to the City employees in those years. Ms. Moore confirmed. He went on to suggest that
       because the Council serves on other boards with other responsibilities perhaps a wage
       appropriation could come from the RDA or the MBA budgets.

       Ms. Turner said that was too complicated and thought it was important to pay qualified citizens
       well. She stated if there was no support for the raise, she would drop the matter again. She
       reiterated that the salary increase was not for her but for future individuals to make a living wage
       and noted that Council Members could opt out from taking the increase if they did not want it. Mr.
Murray City Municipal Council
Workshop
February 15, 2023                                  DRAFT                                              Page 9


       Markham wanted to be completely transparent about how Council Members were paid and thought
       the matter should be continued in a Committee of the Whole. He did not favor people running for
       Council just to get good pay.

       Mr. Hrechkosy asked why the $375 council allowance was not considered part of the Council salary.
       Ms. Moore said it was meant to supplement the cost of purchasing City supplies without taxation.
       Ms. Kennedy explained initially it was intended for a car allowance. Ms. Turner said it helped to pay
       various expenses. Ms. Cotter said the allowance came automatically without having to turn in
       receipts, so she considered it part of the salary. Mr. Hrechkosy agreed. He said with a proposed
       increase of $3,000, not including the insurance provision, the salary would become $27,000 which
       would put them third highest from top paid council members in the valley.

       There was consensus that the allowance was part of their compensation and should be recognized
       that way. More discussion occurred about health insurance benefits in comparison to other cities
       with strong mayor forms of government. Ms. Turner reiterated that Council Members did not have
       to take the raise if they did not want it. There was no final decision about moving the initiative
       forward

       Ms. Turner requested reinstating the council initiative worksheet that was used in the past to move
       items forward immediately if an item was found to have the support of two other council members.
       Ms. Kennedy would locate the worksheet for the future.

Adjournment: Mr. Hrechkosy closed the workshop at 3:02 p.m.


                                                                Pattie Johnson
                                                                Council Office Administrator III
                                     MURRAY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                      COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
                                            Meeting Minutes
                                       Tuesday, February 21, 2023
           Murray City Center - 5025 South State Street, Conference Room, Murray, Utah 84107

Attendance:
  Council Members and others:
  Phil Markham – Vice Chair   District #1
  Diane Turner                District #4
  Pam Cotter                  District #2
  Rosalba Dominguez           District #3
  Garry Hrechkosy – Chair     District #5

  Brett Hales        Mayor                            Jennifer Kennedy City Council Executive Director
  Doug Hill          Chief Administrative Officer     Pattie Johnson   Council Administration
  Brenda Moore       Finance Director                 Steve Roberson Fire Department
  Tammy Kikuchi      Chief Communications Officer     Brooke Smith     City Recorder
  G.L. Critchfield   City Attorney                    Craig Burnett    Police Chief
  Cole Harding       Fire Department                  Michael Todd     Murray Business Owner
  Scott White        Fire Department                  Jeff Puls        Fire Department
  Kim Sorensen       Parks and Recreation Director

Conducting: Council Member Hrechkosy called the meeting to order at 4:15 pm.

Approval of Minutes: Committee of the Whole – January 17, 2023
 Council Member Turner moved to approve, and Council Member Markham seconded the motion.
 All in favor 5-0.

Discussion Items:
  • Resolution approving an agreement between Murray City Corporation and LIV (Life Safety
      Inspection Vault) LLC for the collection, organization, and storage of fire and life safety inspection
      reports. – Chief Mittelman explained the agreement to finalize a proposed contract with the
      company LIV that provided a software program for storing and collecting data related to fire safety
      inspections. He explained how and when safety inspections occur for fire sprinklers and alarm
      systems and noted that tagging equipment was not always kept current. If the resolution was
      approved LIV would assist Murray Fire with the task to improve the process especially for
      commercial properties and multi-family complexes, where inspections were challenging to monitor
      and tag for proper compliance.

      LIV would provide inspectors and technicians to perform inspections, upload documentation and
      report to Murray Fire any information about repairs, maintenance, installations, deficiencies, and
      defects throughout the City. The contract requires that LIV charge a $15 fee from fire sprinkler and
      alarm companies for every item uploaded to the storage system. The Chief clarified that uploading
      information accessible to Murray Fire was without cost to the City. LIV software would also notify
      business owners when Murray Fire officials were notified about a noncompliant system.

      The draft resolution and master service agreement were viewed. Council Members discussed
      whether the City fire department could inventory all 4,000 businesses in the City efficiently on their
      own, and if the $15 fee was reasonable. There was consensus that the service was needed. Chief
      Mittelman said the City Council would consider the fee structure and contract in an upcoming
      council meeting.
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of February 21, 2023                        DRAFT                                               Page 2



  •    Resolution approving an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the City, the Utah
       Community Action Head Start Program and MCSD (Murray City School District) to lease City
       property. – Mr. Hill discussed that the City would like to extend a lease for use of city-owned
       buildings at 73 West 6100 South. For years the City leased two buildings to MCSD where currently
       the Murray Early Childhood Education Center offered Head Start programs. Photos of the facility
       and surrounding area were viewed.         Mr. Hill said before a renewal was considered, City
       departments were asked if they had need of the buildings. The City Library expressed interest, so
       more time was given to let them evaluate and study the site as a future location for a new library.
       After 3 months and no firm decision it was decided to extend the lease with the MCSD for one year
       that would automatically renew on a yearly basis unless terminated according to the agreement.
       MCSD had no issue with an annual lease agreement because they hope to eventually relocate that
       program

  •    Resolution approving an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the City and Murray City
       School District for the license and access to a city communication tower. – Mr. Hill explained that
       the MCSD requested use of a communication tower located at the City’s animal shelter located at
       5624 South 300 West. The reason was to provide students with better access to the MCSD-owned
       network. If approved, the agreement would allow MCSD to place equipment on the city-owned
       tower and pay for all associated costs. The Council reviewed the draft resolution and agreement.
       There was consensus to favor the request.

  •    Donations for non-profit entities. – As a follow-up, Mr. Critchfield reported that the appropriation
       of cash donations should be for corporate purposes only. He reviewed an example budget
       addendum related to the matter and pointed out not only was it important to show a corporate
       purpose in giving, but that the City must receive a net value exchange for a donation, value for value.
       When money was given, a benefit to the City and the residents must be made clear.

       He said donations were not intended for non-profits, they were intended for for-profits and for
       development benefits to the City. Benefits could be tangible, but the key to the right process was
       to establish a process. He suggested a new process include a specific study conducted by a third
       party and the City to show the actual benefit of return from a donation. Justifying a donation was
       easy if statutory authority was proven, however it was a more difficult challenge, even nationwide,
       to prove a public purpose without concrete reason. This was why a study requirement was
       important. He explained three Council Members together could define a public purpose. There
       was further discussion about how the Council would define public purpose, understand proper
       criteria, and implement a study to determine that requests had public purpose.

       Mr. Critchfield explained the difference between waiving particular fees as a donation and giving
       cash donations. Clarity was given about donations to private entities, about nonmonetary
       donations to nonprofit entities only, and when monetary donations are prohibited. Mayor Hales
       commented that some cities do not give cash donations due to the responsibility of ensuring the
       process was followed correctly. Mr. Critchfield agreed there was no provision in Utah Law that says
       a city can give money to non-profits without receiving anything in return. Fee Waivers need no
       justification because the law does not require that.

       Council Members agreed it could take up to one year to establish a new application process. Mr.
       Critchfield suggested a new policy so that applicants know the Council would only look at donations
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of February 21, 2023                      DRAFT                                             Page 3



       once a year. Ms. Dominguez thought the study requirement was beneficial and the right direction.
       Mr. Hrechkosy noted several entities on the current donation list that do not benefit Murray alone.
       He expressed concern with pushing gifts through this year knowing Murray tax dollars were going
       to other cities. Mr. Markham agreed the matter deserved due diligence to complete and ensure
       the application process was thorough and decisions were based on criteria collected from entities.
       Ms. Cotter agreed all donations expected this coming budget cycle should be delayed until a new
       process was completely understood.

       Mr. Critchfield and Ms. Kennedy would return to a future Committee of the Whole meeting with
       draft applications for Council review, one for waiving fees for non-profits and one for cash
       donations. Once finalized, applications would be available on the City’s website for easy access.
       Ms. Kennedy would inform entities about coming changes for donation requests. Ms. Dominguez
       said it was unfortunate recipients grew to expect money each year without accountability. Mr.
       Markham agreed and said moving forward the Council had a responsibility to respond properly to
       financial requests. Mr. Critchfield confirmed appropriations must be authorized by State Law,
       supported by a public process and the City must maintain control through the agreement. The
       process to donate money would occur in a public hearing because the City Council has an obligation
       to act in the best interest of the public when cash donations were considered.

  •    OPMA (Open and Public Meetings Act) and Anti-Harassment Training – Mr. Critchfield provided
       training for OPMA and said the required State policy was a good way to ensure that the City was
       open with all deliberations. He spoke about public observation and public notices as part of public
       meeting requirements and noted that as elected officials, Council Members must invite the public
       to come watch their meetings.

       Mr. Critchfield conducted harassment training that included a review of the City’s Anti-Harassment
       Policy, a review of Article Nine of the Council Rules of the Murray City Municipal Council and the
       Federal Government’s Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, where harassment was defined
       as illegal and did not have to be sexual in nature. He reviewed how someone should report
       discrimination or harassment and explained confidential investigations, corrective action, and the
       no retaliation policy.

  •    Legislative Update – Ms. Cotter shared about various bills the ULCT (Utah League of Cities and
       Towns) had analyzed the past week. She highlighted House Bill 499, Homeless Amendments, and
       explained the bill would not solve homelessness. However, Code Blue a standard emergency
       practice throughout the year, was a proposed amendment that would ensure the homeless had
       access to shelter during life threatening winters.

       Mr. Critchfield clarified the proposal would increase contributions made by cities that do not have
       homeless shelters but pay into a fund for homelessness. If the bill passed Murray’s contribution of
       $10,000 per month would increase because cities with homeless shelters are running in the deficit
       to handle significant overflow. He noted contribution increases would be capped at $250,000 per
       year.

Adjournment: 5:35 p.m.
                                                               Pattie Johnson
                                                               Council Office Administrator III
Discussion
   Items
Discussion
 Item #1
Council Action Request


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director

                    Action Requested
Phone #
801-264-2513
                    Attachments
Presenters


                    Budget Impact



                    Description of this tem
Required Time for
Presentation


Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
                                 Murray City Corporation

                           NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING


       NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that on the 4 th day of April 2023, at the hour of 6:30
p.m. of said day in the Council Chambers of Murray City Center, 5025 South State Street,
Murray, Utah, the Murray City Municipal Council will hold and conduct a hearing to receive
public comment concerning amending the City’s fiscal year 2022–2023 budget. A copy
of the proposed budget amendments may be reviewed by interested persons by
contacting the Murray City Department of Finance and Administration, Room 115, Murray
City Center, Murray, Utah, (801) 264-2660 during normal business hours beginning
March 24, 2023.


      DATED this 7th day of March 2023.



                                             MURRAY CITY CORPORATION


                                             _____________________________________
                                             Brooke Smith
                                             City Recorder



DATE OF PUBLICATION: March 24, 2023
PH23-06

1.    in three public places within the city;
2.    on the Utah Public Notice Website;
3.    on the home page of the Murray City website.
                                  ORDINANCE NO.

    AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CITY’S FISCAL YEAR 2022-2023 BUDGET

   On August 9, 2022, the Murray City Municipal Council adopted the City’s budget for
Fiscal Year 2022-2023. It has been proposed that the Fiscal Year 2022-2023 budget be
amended as follows:

      1. In the General Fund receive $365,000 of interest revenue and allocate the
         following items:

            a. $60,000 for maintenance projects at Riverview and Woodstock parks,
               and;

            b. $75,000 for equipment maintenance for snowplow blades, and;

            c. $40,000 for police onboarding and uniform expense, and;

            d. $190,000 for Park Center Utilities expense.

      2. In the General Fund receive and appropriate $9,288 Utah state liquor allocation
         for police equipment.

      3. In the General Fund reduce $90,000 from zoo arts and parts grant and remove
         from reserves.

      4. In the Capital Improvement Projects fund receive and appropriate $758,2733
         Salt Lake County TRCC grant funds for the construction of the Murray Mansion
         Museum.

      5. In the Capital Improvement Projects fund receive and appropriate $100,000 Salt
         Lake County TRCC grant funds for the construction of a playground in Murray
         Park.

      6. In the Capital Improvement Projects fund receive and appropriate $350,000
         State of Utah Arts and History grant funds for the renovation of the Murray
         Theater.

      7. Authorize the Director of Finance and Administration to transfer any amount the
         transportation sales tax revenue is above budget to the Capital Projects fund at
         the close of the fiscal year 2021-2022 and adjust the budget accordingly.

      8. Authorize the Director of Finance and Administration to transfer any amount from
         the General Fund to the Capital Projects fund at the close of fiscal year 2021-
         2022 which exceeds a 25% fund balance as determined by Utah Code Ann
         section 10-6-116 and adjust the budget accordingly.
Section 10-6-128 of the Utah Code states that the budget for the City may be amended by
the Murray City Municipal Council following a duly noticed public hearing. Pursuant to
proper notice, the Murray City Municipal Council held a public hearing on April 4, 2023, to
consider proposed amendments to the Fiscal Year 2022-2023 budget. After considering
public comment, the Murray City Municipal Council wants to amend the Fiscal Year 2022-
2023 budget.

      1. In the General Fund receive $365,000 of interest revenue and allocate the
         following items:

             a. $60,000 for maintenance projects at Riverview and Woodstock parks,
                and;

             b. $75,000 for equipment maintenance for snowplow blades, and;

             c. $40,000 for police onboarding and uniform expense, and;

             d. $190,000 for Park Center Utilities expense.

      2. In the General Fund receive and appropriate $9,288 Utah state liquor allocation
         for police equipment.

      3. In the General Fund reduce $90,000 from zoo arts and parts grant and remove
         from reserves.

      4. In the Capital Improvement Projects fund receive and appropriate $758,2733
         Salt Lake County TRCC grant funds for the construction of the Murray Mansion
         Museum.

      5. In the Capital Improvement Projects fund receive and appropriate $100,000 Salt
         Lake County TRCC grant funds for the construction of a playground in Murray
         Park.

      6. In the Capital Improvement Projects fund receive and appropriate $350,000
         State of Utah Arts and History grant funds for the renovation of the Murray
         Theater.

      7. Authorize the Director of Finance and Administration to transfer any amount the
         transportation sales tax revenue is above budget to the Capital Projects fund at
         the close of the fiscal year 2021-2022 and adjust the budget accordingly.

      8. Authorize the Director of Finance and Administration to transfer any amount from
         the General Fund to the Capital Projects fund at the close of fiscal year 2021-
         2022 which exceeds a 25% fund balance as determined by Utah Code Ann
         section 10-6-116 and adjust the budget accordingly.
 Section 1. Enactment. The City’s Fiscal Year 2022-2023 budget shall be amended as
follows:

      Section 2. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect on first publication.

       PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this ___ day of ___________, 2023.

                                         MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL


                                         _____________________________________
                                         Garry Hrechkosy, Chair
ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

      DATED this ____ day of __________, 2023.



                                         _____________________________________
                                         Brett Hales, Mayor
ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder




                           CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

       I hereby certify that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published according
to law on the ___ day of _________, 2023.
____________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
Discussion
 Item #2
                                      Department/Agency
                                      Finance & Administration
                                      Enterprise Funds Transfer Repeal for
                                      Solid Waste and Storm Water Funds

                                      Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                      Meeting Date: March 21, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Repeal Section B of ordinance 7.04.020, 13.48.060, and amend
Brenda Moore             section 15.20.260
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Discussion
801-264-2513
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Ordinance
Brenda Moore

                    Budget Impact
                         None



                    Description of this Item
Required Time for        There are two purposes for this ordinance. The first is to repeal
Presentation             the section 7.04.020 and 13.48.060 which as written requires the
                         City to do an operational transfer from the Solid Waste and
10 Minutes               Storm water funds to the General Fund. We stopped doing the
Is This Time             transfer from the Storm water fund in FY2019, and from the Solid
                         Waste Fund in FY2021. It recently came to my attention that the
Sensitive                ordinance required the transfers, so I would like to change it.
No
                          The amendment of section 15.20.260 adds language to allow the
Mayor’s Approval
                         council to change the Power Fund transfer, and clean up some
                         language about what is not included in the power fund transfer.
                         This language makes the ordinance Water, Wastewater and
                         Power ordinance consistent .
Date
March 7, 2023
                             ORDINANCE NO. 23-


       AN ORDINANCE REPEALING PARAGRAPH (B) OF SECTIONS
       7.04.020, 13.48.060 AND AMENDING SECTION 15.20.260 OF THE
       MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO OPERATIONAL
       TRANSFERS OF THE SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING FUND, THE
       STORMWATER FUND AND THE POWER FUND.

       BE IT ENACTED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:

        Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to repeal paragraph
(B) of sections 7.04.020 and 13.48.060 and amend section 15.20.260 of the
Murray City Municipal Code relating to operational transfers of the solid waste
and recycling fund, the stormwater fund and the power fund.

      Section 2. Repeal Paragraph (B) of Sections 7.04.020. Paragraph (B) of
Sections 7.04.020 and 13.48.060 of the Murray City Municipal Code shall be
repealed as follows:

                             Chapter 7.04
               SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING MANAGEMENT
...

7.04.020: FUND:

...

B. Annual Transfer: Beginning fiscal year 2014, there shall be, each fiscal year,
an operational transfer from the City's Solid Waste and Recycling Management
Fund to the City's General Fund of eight percent (8.00%) of total operating
revenue as used and defined in the Utah Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act. Such
transfer shall not prohibit acts and other services being rendered to other
departments of the City.

CB. Investments, Cash And Cash Equivalents Reserves (Reserve): The reserve
level for the Solid Waste and Recycling Management Fund (the "fund") is twenty
five percent (25%) of operating revenue ("reserve level"). This reserve level is to
provide cash liquidity and operational stability in case of situations such as
natural disasters, equipment failure, economic uncertainty, and weather
variations. As a result of onetime expenses, the reserve level may fluctuate,
provided however that the reserve level should not be drawn upon for ongoing
operational expenses. If reserves are drawn below the reserve level, the fund will
replenish reserves to the reserve level within five (5) years. (Ord. 16-01)
                                 Chapter 13.48
                             STORM WATER UTILITY
...

13.48.060: STORMWATER FINANCIAL STANDARDS:
...

  B. Transfer For Administrative Services: Transfer for administrative services
to the General Fund shall be in an amount not to exceed the value of the actual
services rendered. Such amount shall be set not less than every five (5) years by
the City Council after the performance of an independent audit to determine the
value of the service performed.

  CB. Investments, Cash And Cash Equivalents Reserves (Reserve): The
minimum reserve level for the Stormwater Utility Enterprise Fund (the "fund") is
twenty five percent (25%) of operating revenue ("reserve level"). This level of
reserves provides the minimum cash liquidity and operational stability in case of
natural disasters, equipment failure, economic uncertainty and weather
variations. As a result of onetime expenses, the reserve level may fluctuate,
provided however that the reserve level should not be drawn upon for ongoing
operational expenses. If reserves are drawn below the minimum reserve level,
the fund will replenish reserves to the reserve level within five (5) years. (Ord. 17-
40)

      Section 3. Amendment of section 15.20.060 of the Murray City Municipal
Code. Section 15.20.060 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to the
power fund financial standards shall be amended to read as follows:

                                Chapter 15.20
                          ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS

...

15.20.260POWER FUND FINANCIAL STANDARDS:

In order to maintain fiscal soundness of the Power Fund, the following financial
standards are established:

  A. Operational Transfers: There shall be, each fiscal year, an operational
transfer from the City's Power Enterprise Fund to the City's General Fund of eight
percent (8.00%) of total operating revenues (including wholesale power sales
revenue), as used and defined in the Utah Uniform Fiscal Procedure Act, . The
City Council may, at any time, modify the operational transfer. The following are
excluding:ed from total operating revenues for purposes of operational transfers:
    1. Disbursements and/or refunds of overcollections and/or margins received
from Utah Associated Municipal Power Systems (UAMPS) and/or the
Intermountain Power Agency (IPA); and

      2. Revenues collected in accordance with electric service schedule 30,
supply cost adjustment (SCA): The in lieu of tax transfer approximates the
equivalent ad valorem taxes which would be imposed on an investor-owned
utility with the same or similar facilities. This transfer does not prohibit the Power
Department from assisting or providing other services to other City departments.
....

   Section 4. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first
publication.


      PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal
Council on this day of  , 2023.


                                            MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL




                                            Garry Hrechkosy, Chair

ATTEST:



Brooke Smith, City Recorder

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

                                    DATED this         day of              _, 2023.




                                            Brett A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:



Brooke Smith, City Recorder
                          CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

      I hereby certify that this Ordinance, or a summary hereof, was published

according to law on the      day of         _, 2023.




                                        Brooke Smith, City Recorder
Discussion
 Item #3
                                     Power Department

                                     Rate Adjustment Discussion


                                     Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                                     March 21, 2023


Department              Purpose of Proposal
Director                  Discussion of a proposed rate increase
Blaine Haacke
                        Action Requested
Phone #                   Discussion of rate increase in preparation for the April 4th
801-264-2730              Council meeting and the potential action in that meeting.
                        Attachments
Presenters
                          Power Point by Dave Berg
Blaine Haacke
Matt Youngs
                        Budget Impact
Dave Berg, consultant     A rate increase will impact the metered revenue enabling the
 (via zoom)               Power Department to cover future resource costs as well as the
                          high cost of energy this past winter.
                        Description of this tem
                          Due to energy market volatility, natural gas increases and
Required Time for
                          restrictions on hydro and coal fired production, it has become
Presentation
                          apparent that rate adjustments will be necessary to keep the
45 Minutes                Power Department funds in a healthy, stable condition. The
Is This Time              Power Department has contracted the assistance of Dave Berg
Sensitive                 Consulting to recommend rate modifications to our existing
                          structure.
No

Mayor’s Approval          Mr. Berg has previously done rate study work for the city and he
                          is very familiar with our financial ledgers, customer
                          demographics, rate design and community. His firm has been
                          involved with Power Department Cost of Service Studies in the
Date                      past.
March 7, 2023
He will be available to present his findings and recommendations to the council in the March 21st
COW meeting. Mr. Berg has performed an analysis of rate recommendations and his findings are
summarized on the attached PowerPoint presentation.

In the March 21st COW, staff will make a short presentation reviewing the reasons for a rate
adjustment and offer a comparison of Murray City rates to other muncipal utilties. Mr. Berg will
also review his study and detail his findings.

The April 4th Council Meeting is calendared as the date for City Council action. In accordance to
City Code, the Attorney's Office will publish and distribute a public notice that is required for rate
adjustment action to proceed. This will be done in the weeks preceeding the April 4th Council
meeting.
                               Murray City Corporation
                                   NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING


       NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that on the 4th day of April 2023, at the hour of 6:30
p.m., in the Council Chambers of the Murray City Center, 5025 South State Street,
Murray, Utah, the Murray City Municipal Council will hold and conduct a hearing to receive
public comment regarding a proposed ordinance that would:

       Increase customer charge rates and electric rate schedules 1, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9 and 15
pertaining to residential, small commercial, security outdoor lighting, all electric
residential, government facilities, large commercial, and ultra large commercial,
respectively.

        DATED this 16th day of March 2023.

                                               MURRAY CITY CORPORATION


                                               ________________________________________
                                               Brooke Smith, City Recorder




DATES OF PUBLICATION: March 20, 2023
PH23-08

Posted to the City’s website
Posted to the Utah Public Notice Website
Posted in 3 public locations within the City
                               ORDINANCE NO. _______

       AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 15.20.150, 15.20.170, 15.20.180,
       15.20.190, 15.20.200, 15.20.220, AND 15.20.230 OF THE MURRAY CITY
       MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO ELECTRICAL SERVICE SCHEDULES.

                                       PREAMBLE

Due to various factors including energy market volatility, natural gas price increases and
transportation and storage issues, significant drought conditions, and restrictions to
hydro and coal fired production, the City has experienced a dramatic rise in energy
prices. Power generation, transmission, and distribution costs are some of the largest
expenses for the City and are expected to continue to increase more than previously
anticipated. As a result of this increase in costs associated with providing power to City
residents and business, it has become necessary to adjust the City’s power rates to
cover the increased cost of generating and delivering power within the City. This rate
increase is necessary to maintain the current level of service, and to help fund capital
improvement projects needed to update aging infrastructure.

The City contracted with Dave Berg Consulting, Inc. (“Berg Consulting”), a third-party
consulting firm, to review the current state of utility rates in the City and evaluate the
City’s needs going forward. Berg Consulting has previously done work for the City and
is familiar with the City’s demographics, rate structures, and needs. Based on its
evaluation of the City’s existing rates, budgets, power costs, and market volatility, Berg
Consulting has made recommendations to the City for the following proposed rate
changes.

       BE IT ENACTED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:

      Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to amend Sections
15.20.150, 15.20.170, 15.20.180, 15.20.190, 15.20.200, 15.20.220, and 15.20.230 of
the Murray City Municipal Code relating to Electrical Service Schedules.

      Section 2. Amendments to the Electric Service Schedules of Sections
15.20.150, 15.20.170, 15.20.180, 15.20.190, 15.20.200, 15.20.220, and 15.20.230 of
the Murray City Municipal Code. Sections 15.20.150, 15.20.170, 15.20.180, 15.20.190,
15.20.200, 15.20.220, and 15.20.230 of the Murray City Municipal Code shall be
amended to read as follows:

                                   Chapter 15.20
                             ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS

15.20.150: ELECTRIC SERVICE SCHEDULE 1; RESIDENTIAL SERVICE:
…
B.     Rates. Monthly billings shall equal the sum of the following charges:
                                 Effective    Effective       Effective   Effective    Effective
                                  July 1,     October         October     October      October
                                   2008       1, 2008         1, 2009     1, 2010      1, 2011
1. Customer Charge
Per Meter, Per Billing Period     $2.93           $3.07        $3.16       $3.25        $3.35
2. Energy Charge
Peak Season (April to
September, inclusive)
First 600 kWh, per kWh:          $0.0751      $0.0787         $0.0811     $0.0835      $0.0860
All extra kWh, per kWh:          $0.0842      $0.0882         $0.0908     $0.0935      $0.0963
Off-Peak Season (October to
March, inclusive)
All kWh, per kWh:                $0.0751      $0.0787         $0.0811     $0.0835      $0.0860


 1. Customer Charge:        Per meter, per billing period:                          $8.00

 2. Energy Charge:          Peak Season (April to September, inclusive)
                            First 600 kWh, Per kWh:                                 $0.0860
                            All Additional kWh, per kWh:                            $0.1011

                            Off-Peak Season (October to March, inclusive)
                            All kWh, per kWh:                             $0.0860
…
15.20.170: ELECTRIC SERVICE SCHEDULE 3; GENERAL SERVICE SMALL:
…
B.    Rates. Monthly billings shall equal the sum of the following charges:
                                  Effective       Effective   Effective   Effective    Effective
                                   July 1,        October     October     October      October
                                    2008          1, 2008     1, 2009     1, 2010      1, 2011
1. Customer Charge
Per Meter, Per Billing Period       $7.33          $7.68        $7.91       $8.15       $8.39
2. Energy Charge
First 1,500 kWh, per kWh:          $0.0809        $0.0847      $0.0872    $0.0898      $0.0925
All extra kWh, per kWh:            $0.0408        $0.0428      $0.0441    $0.0454      $0.0468
3. Demand Charge
Peak Season (April to
September, inclusive)
All kW above 5 kW, per kW:         $10.92         $11.44       $11.78      $12.13       $12.49
Off-Peak Season (October to
March, inclusive)
All kW above 5 kW, per kW:          $9.61         $10.07       $10.37      $10.68       $11.00



                                              2
 1. Customer Charge:           Per meter, per billing period:                          $14.00

 2. Energy Charge:             First 1500 kWh, Per kWh:                                $0.0962
                               All Additional kWh, per kWh:                            $0.0498

 3. Demand Charge:             Peak Season (April to September, inclusive)
                               All kWh above 5 kWh, per kWh                  $13.49
                               Off-Peak Season (October to March, inclusive)
                               All kWh above 5 kWh, per kWh                  $12.00
…
15.20.180: ELECTRIC SERVICES SCHEDULE 4; SECURITY OUTDOOR LIGHTING:
…
B.    Rates.
                                     Effective       Effective   Effective   Effective    Effective
                                      July 1,        October     October     October      October
                                       2008          1, 2008     1, 2009     1, 2010      1, 2011
1. 150 Watt Luminaire
Per Lamp, Per Billing Period          $15.28         $16.01       $16.49      $16.98       $17.49
2. 400 Watt Luminaire
Per Lamp, Per Billing Period          $24.44         $25.61       $26.38      $27.17       $27.99

 1. Per Lamp (150 Watt), per billing period:                                           $19.06

 2. Per Lamp (450 Watt), per billing period:                                           $30.51

…
15.20.190: ELECTRICAL SERVICE SCHEDULE 5; RESIDENTIAL ALL ELECTRIC
SERVICE:
…
B.    Rates. Monthly billings shall equal the sum of the following charges:
                                    Effective    Effective       Effective   Effective    Effective
                                     July 1,     October         October     October      October
                                      2008       1, 2008         1, 2009     1, 2010      1, 2011
1. Customer Charge
Per Meter, Per Billing Period        $2.93           $3.07        $3.16       $3.25        $3.35
2. Energy Charge
Peak Season (April to
September, inclusive)
First 600 kWh, per kWh:             $0.0700      $0.0734         $0.0756     $0.0779      $0.0802
All extra kWh, per kWh:             $0.0784      $0.0822         $0.0847     $0.0872      $0.0898


                                                 3
Off-Peak Season (October to
March, inclusive)                $0.0656      $0.0688         $0.0709     $0.0730      $0.0752
First 400 kWh, per kWh:          $0.0487      $0.0510         $0.0525     $0.0541      $0.0557
All extra kWh, per kWh:


 1. Customer Charge:        Per meter, per billing period:                          $8.00

 2. Energy Charge:          Peak Season (April to September, inclusive)
                            First 600 kWh, Per kWh:                                 $0.0802
                            All Additional kWh, per kWh:                            $0.0946

                            Off-Peak Season (October to March, inclusive)
                            First 400 kWh, per kWh:                       $0.0752
                            All Additional kWh, per kWh:                  $0.0605
…
15.20.200 ELECTRIC SERVIC SCHEDULE 8; MURRAY CITY GOVERNMENTAL
FACILITIES:
…
B.    Rates. Monthly billings shall equal the sum of the following charges:


                                  Effective       Effective   Effective   Effective    Effective
                                   July 1,        October     October     October      October
                                    2008          1, 2008     1, 2009     1, 2010      1, 2011
1. Customer Charge
Per Meter, Per Billing Period       $7.33          $7.68       $7.91       $8.15        $8.39
2. Energy Charge
First 1,500 kWh, per kWh:          $0.0608        $0.0637     $0.0656     $0.0676      $0.0696
All extra kWh, per kWh:            $0.0309        $0.0323     $0.0333     $0.0343      $0.0353
3. Demand Charge
Peak Season (April to
September, inclusive)
All kW above 5 kW, per kW:          $5.46          $5.72       $5.89       $6.07        $6.25
Off-Peak Season (October to
March, inclusive)
All kW above 5 kW, per kW:          $4.81          $5.04       $5.19       $5.35        $5.51


 1. Customer Charge:        Per meter, per billing period:                          $14.00

 2. Energy Charge:          Peak Season (April to September, inclusive)
_                           First 1500 kWh, Per kWh:                                $0.0720
                            All Additional kWh, per kWh:                            $0.0381

                                              4
 3. Demand Charge:          Peak Season (April to September, inclusive)
                            All kWh above 5 kWh, per kWh                  $6.75
                            Off-Peak Season (October to March, inclusive)
                            All kWh above 5 kWh, per kWh                           $6.01
…
15.20.220 ELECTRIC SERVICE SCHEDULE 9; GENERAL SERVICE LARGE:
…
B.    Rates. Monthly billings shall equal the sum of the following charges:
                                  Effective       Effective   Effective   Effective   Effective
                                   July 1,        October     October     October     October
                                    2008          1, 2008     1, 2009     1, 2010     1, 2011
1. Energy Charge
All kWh, per kWh:                  $0.0631        $0.0661     $0.0681     $0.0701     $0.0722


 1. Customer Charge:        Per meter, per billing period:                         $28.00

 2. Energy Charge:          All kWh, per kWh:                                      $0.0477

 3. Demand Charge:          Peak Season (April to September, inclusive)
                            All kWh, per kWh                              $14.16
                            Off-Peak Season (October to March, inclusive)
                            All kWh, per kWh                                       $12.58
…
15.20.230 ELECTRIC SERVICE SCHEDULE 15; GENERAL SERVICE ULTRA
LARGE:
…
B.    Rates. Monthly billings shall equal the sum of the following charges:


                                  Effective       Effective   Effective   Effective   Effective
                                   July 1,        October     October     October     October
                                    2008          1, 2008     1, 2009     1, 2010     1, 2011
1. Customer Charge
Per Meter, Per Billing Period      $18.33         $19.21      $19.79      $20.38       $20.99
2. Energy Charge
All kWh, per kWh:                  $0.0381        $0.0399     $0.0411     $0.0423     $0.0436




                                              5
3. Demand Charge
Peak Season (April to
September, inclusive)
All kW, per kW:                       $11.50        $12.05     $12.41   $12.78       $13.16
Off-Peak Season (October to
March, inclusive)
All kW, per kW:                       $10.11        $10.59     $10.91   $11.24       $11.58
4. Voltage Charge
For customers who provide
and maintain transformers
and other necessary
equipment at and beyond the
point of service:
                                       0.29          0.31       0.32     0.33         0.34
All kW, per kW:


 1. Customer Charge:          Per meter, per billing period:                     $120.00

 2. Energy Charge:            All kWh, per kWh:                                  $0.0420

 3. Demand Charge:            Peak Season (April to September, inclusive)
                              All kWh, per kWh                              $14.09
                              Off-Peak Season (October to March, inclusive)
                              All kWh, per kWh                                   $12.58
4. Voltage Discount           For customers who provide and maintain transformers and
                              other necessary equipment at and beyond the point of
                              service.
                              All kW, per kW:                              $0.34
…

          Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect on April 4, 2023.


       PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this 4 day of April, 2023.
     th




                                              MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                              _____________________________________
                                              Garry Hrechkosy, Chair

ATTEST:
                                                6
________________________________
Brooke Smith
City Recorder



     Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this ____ day of
___________, 2023.


MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

      DATED this ____ day of _______________, 2023




                                        _____________________________________
                                        Brett A. Hales, Mayor


ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith
City Recorder



                          CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

       I hereby certify that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published according
to law on the ___ day of _________, 2023.



                                        _____________________________________
                                        Brooke Smith
                                        City Recorder




                                          7
                                              Memorandum


TO:       Mayor Brett Hales and the Murray City Council

FROM:     Blaine Haacke, Power Department General Manager

DATE:     March 15, 2023

SUBJECT: Explanation of updated rate structure in preparation for the March 21st COW discussion. Updated
PowerPoint is also attached.



The Power Department wants to present you with the latest rate adjustment information. As this process
proceeds, we have been working with our consultant to recommend a rate increase. The most important aspect
to me is that the Mayor and Council understand the methodology as you consider the proposal.

The proposed rate is different than what you were given previously and can be found on the last slides of the
PowerPoint which is included with this memo. These are the rate changes staff is recommending for the
Council’s consideration. I think it would be best to explain some of the variations.

The goal is to achieve an average 9% increase in revenue based on our projected needs for future power
purchases as well as to consider past months’ higher than expected costs. The attached rate gives us that need.

The city has seven rate classes. In our recommendation, each rate is being treated independently to achieve an
average 9% increase in revenue. Residential will receive a 9% total revenue increase. Small Commercial will
receive a 9% revenue increase, Large Commercial will receive…….and so on. Note that each rate has components
within the rate that must be modified. As the components within the rate are modified, they will be increased
or changed according to Mr. Berg’s analysis. However, the result will be a 9% increase in revenue.

For example, in the case of the Residential class, the customer charge is one component of the whole rate. It is
being increased by $4.65 for EVERY RESIDENTIAL customer. The kwh charge rate however will not be changed
in the Summer and Winter first tiers. The second summer tier, however, will be changed 5%. The result is a 9%
revenue increase with the customer charge per customer accounting for the bottom-line 9% increase. The
energy usage or kwh is hardly touched in this case.

Another exercise to review would be the General Service Small (small commercial) rate. The customer charge is
increased from $8.39 to $14.00, but the customer charge by itself does not offer the 9% needed. So, to achieve
the 9% increase, the kwh tiers are increased at 4% and 6.4% according to usage. And the demand charge will
increase at 8% and 9.1% seasonally. The result, like the Residential class, is an average 9% rate increase for that
customer sector. We could make the same claim for all seven customer classes.

Hopefully this quick explanation will help you understand the adjustments. Mr. Berg will be available in the
COW meeting this Tuesday evening. It’s his analysis, after working with Murray city for about 10 years and with
over 40 years of utility experience, that we are respecting and trusting. He has done rate studies for the majority
of Utah entities.

In the meantime, our department staff can answer any questions or field comments.
March 14, 2023

Murray City Council
153 W 4800 S
Murray, UT 84107

Subject: Electric Rate Adjustment

Council Members:

In 2016, Dave Berg Consulting, LLC prepared an electric cost-of-service and rate design study for Murray
City Power (Murray). Murray has recently been experiencing much higher-than-expected wholesale
power costs. I have prepared the attached PowerPoint summary of analysis undertaken to recommend
adjustments to Murray’s retail electric rates to account for the increased operating costs. A summary of
each page of the presentation follows:

Slide 1 – Title page.

Slide 2 – The FY 2023 operating budget resulted in a budgeted loss of $16.2 million. Beginning of year
cash was $29.6 million, the budget would have depleted reserves by 54%. $9.1 million of the loss was
for capital improvements which often are delayed or not all accomplished during the planned
timeframe. The net operating revenue before transfers and capital was negative $4.3 million.

Slide 3 – As of the mid-year point in the fiscal year (end of December), the YTD result was a loss of
$655,000. This was only 4% of the annual budgeted loss. This difference was primarily due to much less
than budgeted capital improvements completed as of December 31 as well as slightly higher than
budgeted revenues with slightly lower overall operating expenses.

Slide 4 – Towards the end of calendar 2022 and into early 2023 wholesale power costs have been much
higher than expected. Four primary items have impacted wholesale power. 1) Problems with coal
delivery via rail and truck to regional coal fired power plants has limited the amount of energy available
from these facilities. 2) The drought has limited the availability of hydro power from federal dams. 3)
Natural gas transportation bottle necks and lower than expected levels of gas storage have increased
the price of gas utilized to generate electricity. 4) Higher market prices have resulted from the first 3
items as well as other market impacts.

Slide 5 – This graph summarizes total expenditures for purchased power by month for July 2022 through
January 2023. The bar graphs show the individual UAMPS and WAPA expenditures. The monthly total is
indicated by the gray line. The budget is $2,000,000 per month as indicated by the yellow line. As
shown, expenditures were under budget for July through October. November was near budget and
December and January were well over budget.

                   Dedicated to providing personal service to consumer-owned utilities
          Dave Berg Consulting, LLC | 15213 Danbury Ave W, Rosemount, MN 55068 | 612-850-2305
                                        www.davebergconsulting.com
Murray City Council
March 14, 2023
Page 2



Slide 6 – The previous slide was purchased power based on total dollars spent. This slide shows the
average cost per megawatt-hour (MWh). The annual budget was slightly above $60/MWh. December
and January were well above this average and expected average costs for the rest of the fiscal year are
$75/MWh (25% over budget).

Slide 7 – This slide summarizes the impact of higher-than-expected power costs.

Slide 8 – Current recommendations are listed. Rates have not been adjusted since 2011. As of
December, capital expenditures had been delayed by the items are still planned for completion. I
recommend a 9% overall increase in rates which would increase revenues by $3,000,000 per year. A 9%
increase since 2011 averages 0.7% per year. We recommend a full cost-of-service and rate design study
similar to the 2016 study be performed at a later time.

Slide 9 – Specific rate proposals for residential and small general service customers. For residential
customers the monthly customer charge increases from $3.35 to $8.00, an increase of $4.65. In 2016 it
was recommended that this rate be increased to either $6.00 or $8.00 but Murray opted to leave it at
$3.35. For comparison, Rocky Mountain Power’s residential customer charge is $10. The first summer
energy tier and all winter energy rates are not changed. All winter bills will increase by $4.65 regardless
of usage. Summer users using 600 kWh or less will also increase by $4.65. The higher tier of usage in
the summer has been increased, this expands the difference between the two summer tiers to further
encourage conservation by larger users. The small general service customer charge has been increased
from $8.39 to $14.00. Energy and demand rates for this class have been increased as well. For both
residential and small general service classes the overall increase is 9% but certain customers may
experience something more or less than this depending on usage.

Slide 10 – For large general service, ultra large general service and government facilities, all rates have
been increased as shown. These rate changes also result in overall increases of 9% for each class of
customers. Security light fixed monthly charges have been increased 9%.

I will participate in the March 21 City Council meeting and will go through this PowerPoint presentation
at that time. I will also be available to answer any questions you may have.

Sincerely,


Dave Berg Consulting, LLC




David A. Berg, PE
Principal
Electric Rate Recommendation
Murray City, Utah
David Berg – Principal – Dave Berg Consulting

March 21, 2023
FY 2023 Operating Budget


Total Operating Revenues -                   $36,636,625
Total Operating Expenses -                   $40,919,364
Net Operating Revenue -                      ($4,282,739)
Less General Fund Transfer -                  ($2,867,240)
Less Capital Improvements -                   ($9,066,986)
Change in Net Position -                    ($16,216,965)

Beginning of Year Cash -                     $29,628,872
2                   Electric Rate Recommendation
FY 2023 Mid Year Actuals


Total Operating Revenues -                  $21,255,961    58%
Total Operating Expenses -                  $20,157,960    49%
Net Operating Revenue -                      $1,098,001
Less General Fund Transfer -                ($1,625,595)    57%
Less Capital Improvements -                   ($127,011)   1.4%
Change in Net Position -                      ($654,604)     4%

Beginning of Year Cash -           $29,628,872
3                   Electric Rate Recommendation
Market Uncertainty


• Coal transportation
• Drought
• Natural gas transportation and storage
• Market prices




4                    Electric Rate Recommendation
FY 2023 Purchased Power Costs




5                 Electric Rate Recommendation
FY 2023 Average Purchased Power Cost




6                 Electric Rate Recommendation
Purchased Power Impact


• Expected near term power costs of $75/MWh
  exceeds budget by 25%
• 5 months at $75/MWh increases costs by $2.5
  million
• $2.5 million is approximately 15% increase in
  overall operating costs over 5 months




7                   Electric Rate Recommendation
Rate Recommendations


• Last rate adjustment – 2011
• Capital delayed, but still coming
• 9% rate increase could raise $3,000,000 per year
• Increase rates 9% overall effective May 1, 2023
• 9% increase since 2011 averages 0.7% per year
• Perform future COS and rate design study




8                      Electric Rate Recommendation
Proposed Rates

                                                           Existing Proposed
                                                              Rate      Rate Increase
         Residential
          Customer Charge                                    $3.35     $8.00   138.8%
          Energy Charge
           Summer (First 600)                             $0.0860    $0.0860     0.0%
           Summer (Above 600)                             $0.0963    $0.1011     5.0%
           Winter                                         $0.0860    $0.0860     0.0%
         Residential All-Electric
          Customer Charge                                    $3.35     $8.00   138.8%
          Energy Charge
           Summer (First 600)                             $0.0802    $0.0802     0.0%
           Summer (Above 600)                             $0.0898    $0.0946     5.4%
           Winter (First 400)                             $0.0752    $0.0752     0.0%
           Winter (Above 400)                             $0.0557    $0.0605     8.6%
         General Service Small
          Customer Charge                                    $8.39    $14.00    66.9%
          Energy Charge
           First 1500 kWh                                 $0.0925    $0.0962     4.0%
           Above 1500 kWh                                 $0.0468    $0.0498     6.4%
          Demand Charge
           Summer (Above 5)                                 $12.49    $13.49     8.0%
           Winter (Above 5)                                 $11.00    $12.00     9.1%

9                                   Electric Rate Recommendation
Proposed Rates

                                                     Existing    Proposed
                                                     Rate        Rate     Increase

           General Service Large
            Customer Charge                             $20.99     $28.00    33.4%
            Energy Charge                              $0.0436    $0.0477     9.5%
            Demand Charge
             Summer                                     $13.16     $14.16      7.6%
             Winter                                     $11.58     $12.58      8.6%
           General Service Ultra Large
            Customer Charge                             $72.12    $120.00    66.4%
            Energy Charge                              $0.0383    $0.0420     9.6%
            Demand Charge
             Summer                                     $13.09     $14.09      7.6%
             Winter                                     $11.58     $12.58      8.6%
            Voltage Discount                             $0.34      $0.34      0.0%
           Government Facilities
            Customer Charge                              $8.39     $14.00    66.9%
            Energy Charge
             Summer (First 1500)                       $0.0696    $0.0720      3.5%
             Summer (Above 1500)                       $0.0353    $0.0381      7.9%
            Demand Charge
             Summer (Above 5)                            $6.25      $6.75      8.0%
             Winter (Above 5)                            $5.51      $6.01      9.1%
           Security Outdoor Lighting
            150W                                        $17.49     $19.06      9.0%
            450W                                        $27.99     $30.51      9.0%

10                              Electric Rate Recommendation
Questions/Discussion




Dave Berg Consulting
Tel: 612-850-2305
Email: dave@davebergconsulting.com




                   Electric Rate Recommendation
11
Adjournment
Council Meeting
  6:30 p.m.
     Call to Order
  Pledge of Allegiance
Council Meeting
   Minutes
OPENING CEREMONIES
 DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT - DRAFT

 Council in Attendance:

 Philip Markham, District #1
 Pamela Cotter, District #2
 Rosalba Dominguez, District #3
 Diane Turner, District #4 - Conducting
 Garry Hrechkosy, District #5
 Jennifer Kennedy, Council Director
 Pattie Johnson, Council Office Administrator III
 Crystal Brown, Officer Administrator

 Administrative Staff in Attendance:

 Brett A. Hales, Mayor (Excused)
 Doug Hill, Chief Administrative Office
 Tammy Kikuchi, Chief Communication Officer
 G.L. Critchfield, City Attorney
 Brooke Smith, City Recorder
 Brenda Moore, Finance and Administration Director
 Craig Burnett, Police Chief
 Joey Mittelman, Fire Chief
 Jeff Puls, Fire Marshal
 Steven Roberson, Deputy Fire Marshal
 George Zboril, Deputy Fire Marshal
 Jared Hall, Community and Economic Development Director
 Robert White, IT Service Director
 Ben Gray, Senior IT Technician

 Others in Attendance:
 Scott Miller, Sally Miller, Marie Davis, Jenn Kikel-Lynn, Jeff Evans, Mary West, Jonathan Olver, Janice
 Strobell, Rachel Morot, Charles Turner, Donnetta Mitchell, Jake Dinsdale, Greg Jensen, Nicole Jensen,
 Clark Bullen, Michael Brodsky, O. Yost, Gary and Amy Howland, Jared Boyer, Dave Carr, Mary Evans, Loran
 Pasalich, Arvil Evans, Deby Evans, Shawn Delliskave, Margaret Dahl, Stacey Pasalisch, Emily Fischio,
 Liberty Kluse

 Opening Ceremonies
 Call to Order – Councilmember Diane Turner called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.

 The audience was invited to recite the Pledge of Allegiance led by Pattie Johnson.

APPROVAL OF MINUTES
 1. Council Meeting - February 21, 2023
        MOTION
        Councilmember Rosalba Dominguez moved to approve the Council Meeting Minutes from
        February 21, 2023. The motion was SECONDED by Councilmember Garry Hrechkosy.

        Roll Call:
        Ayes: Philip Markham, Pamela Cotter, Rosalba Dominguez, Diane Turner, Garry Hrechkosy

        Motion passes 5-0

SPECIAL RECOGNITION
None scheduled.
CITIZEN COMMENT(S)
Comments will be limited to three minutes, step to the microphone, state your name and city of residence,
and fill out the required form.
 Mary Evans

 Mary Evans discussed the safety of the Murray city building during DUI processing. She requested
 changes to the procedure and furniture in the new city hall building to provide safe facilities for individuals
 brought into police custody. She asked the City Council to provide additional funds to make these
 changes.

 No additional comments were given, and the public comment period was closed.

CONSENT AGENDA
None scheduled.
PUBLIC HEARING(S)
Staff, sponsor presentations, and public comments will be given prior to Council action on the following
matter. The Council Meeting Agenda Packet can be found HERE.
 1. Consider an ordinance amending sections 17.170.120, 17.170.140, AND 17.170.160 of the Murray
    City Municipal Code relating to the Murray City Center District (MCCD) Zone., Jared Hall

    Minutes Attachments
    1. MCCD Zone, proposed changes for City Council 03-07-2023.pdf
    2. Amanda Rock-Save the Arlington!.pdf
    3. Amy Thomas-Mar 7 - City Council Meeting Comments.pdf
    4. Brittany Hunt-Murray City Hall Property.pdf
    5. Cynthia Proctor-City Hall.pdf
    6. David McCarty-Old Murray City Hall.pdf
    7. Elayne Anderson-Murray City Hall.pdf
    8. Frances George-Murray City Hall.pdf
    9. Jane Willie-A new library, no more apartments!.pdf
    10. K. Dolos-High Rise Apartment Building.pdf
    11. Kari Dunn-Opposition to Murray City Hall becoming 480 Apartments.pdf
    12. Kristine Lavon-Arlington.pdf
    13. M. Caggiano-Murray City Hall - please no high density apartments .pdf
    14. Rachel Morot- Comments for Public Hearing on Tuesday, March 7th.pdf
    15. Reynold Wilie-Oppose Apartments .pdf
        PRESENTATION
Jared Hall shared a PowerPoint with the purpose of the proposed ordinance to consider an
ordinance amending sections 17.170.120, 17.170.140, AND 17.170.160 of the Murray City
Municipal Code relating to the Murray City Center District (MCCD) Zone.

The proposed ordinance request to amend the Murray City Municipal Code related to the
MCCD zone. The changes would only impact a specific area of the MCCD zone, south of Vine
Street and east of State Street, which is owned by the RDA. The proposed changes would
include limiting building height to six stories or 70 feet, increasing parking requirements for
residential units to 1.5 spaces per unit, and increasing the overall requirement for landscaping
and open space to 25%. The proposed open space would be required to have no more than
25% turf, and the turf would need to have purposeful use, such as for playing fields or
picnicking, and be accessible to the public.

CITIZEN COMMENTS

Clark Bullen

Clark Bullen, a resident of district three, explains that the RDA has decided to sell a six-acre
property and a realtor has already been contracted. The only thing that determines how the
property is marketed is the zoning. If the zoning is set up with 80 units per acre, it could
potentially become a 480-unit apartment complex. Clark Bullen suggests considering less
density or making it a commercial-only property. He warns that even though the council may
not want apartments if developers offer top dollar for a 480-unit complex, it may be hard to say
no. Clark Bullen cites a citywide survey where a majority of respondents did not want high
density and urges the council to consider reducing or removing the density.

Margaret Pahl

Margaret Pahl used to live in Murray and currently lives in Holiday. She met with Tim Tingey 18
years ago to discuss the development of downtown Murray, which still hasn't happened.
Margaret Pahl urged the council to consider the long-term impact on Murray's character and
legacy. She express concern about using the same need assessment that financed other high-
density projects in the area, which may lead to extended construction and unoccupied
property. She suggests a phased approach and only releasing a portion of the property at a
time.

Rachel Morot

Rachel Morot, the vice president of the Historic Murray First Foundation, spoke for five minutes
during a meeting and expressed her encouragement for the citizens who attended. She
emphasized the importance of citizens' engagement in the process and encouraged them to
make comments. Rachel Morot clarified that the building in question is a historic building and
shared the results of a survey, which showed that the majority of citizens wanted the building
to be turned into commercial and retail space. She also read a comment from a citizen who
grew up in Murray and urged the city leaders to consider the citizens' opinions since their taxes
fund the government's projects. Rachel Morot encouraged the citizens to stand up and voice
their opinions about what they wanted to see in their community.

Lynn Olsen, read into the record by Rachel Morot

Lynn Olsen believes that the current city leaders have not considered the opinions of long-time
residents who grew up in Murray and attended schools such as Arlington Hillcrest and Murray
High. He thinks that the new complex on Vine Street is out of place and that it will be a sad day
if the Arlington building is demolished. He suggests that the city leaders visit Main Street in
Helper, Utah, to see how they have kept their historic character. He reminded the council that
they have a responsibility to be the voice of the citizens whose money they are choosing to
spend on city projects since the government only has funds from taxes.

Wayne Brandolino
Wayne Brandolino shared his confusion about the rezoning and concern about adding density
with new apartment buildings in the city, which they fear will turn Murray into another Salt Lake
City. Wayne Brandolino questioned whether the income generated by adding density will be
enough to service them and worry about the crime rate and historical preservation of the city.
Wayne Brandolino believes that something needs to be done differently to avoid going in the
wrong direction.

Sally Miller

Sally Miller from District Three participated in the survey and believes that the majority wants
Murray to maintain its historic look rather than high-rise buildings. She questioned why the
proposal for a six-story building is not being reduced to three or four stories if that's what the
majority of Murray residents want. She also raises concerns about the lack of parking in
Murray. Sally Miller suggests building high-rise buildings and apartments at larger commercial
spaces such as the RC Willey or K-Mart locations instead of adding them to the historic
district.

Arvil Evans

Arvil Evans shared his negative experience with high-density, high-rise buildings in his previous
neighborhood, which resulted in robberies, vandalism, and harassment. He was forced to move
and has since made Murray his sanctuary. He has roots in Murray, with ancestors buried in the
city cemetery, and does not approve of the proposed high-rise buildings, citing his negative
experience and concern for the community's safety and well-being.

Greg and Nicole Jensen, read into the record by Janice Strobell

Janice Strobell from District Three read a comment into the record that was submitted after
the deadline expressing concern for the safety of the community and the strain on resources if
the proposed residential increases are approved for the old Murray City Hall. The comment
requests that Councilmember Markham vote no on the proposals and keep Murray a small
community.

Janice Strobell

Janice Strobell questioned whether the proposed zoning for the area complies with the vision
for downtown and whether it meets the desires of the citizens. They noted that builders and
developers will want to build to the maximum allowed by the current zoning revision.

Mary West

Mary West lived behind her high school on Washington Avenue since 1990. She liked the small
community of Murray and how convenient it was to take the UTA tracks to work. However, she
was concerned about the increased traffic and density that would come with the proposed
apartment complexes. She was worried about the safety of pedestrians, especially with the
removal of the only pedestrian walkway. Mary West feared that adding more large buildings
would take away the quaintness of Murray and make it unrecognizable as a city. She had
previously complained about the traffic and was concerned about how the elderly and young
people living in the complexes would cross the street. Mary urged the council to consider their
decisions carefully and think about how many more apartment buildings were necessary for
the city.

Emily Fischio

Emily Fischio, who lives in District Two, mentioned that she had recently moved back to Murray
in 2020, after spending some time in Salt Lake City. Emily Fischio grew up in the neighborhood
and walked to Parkside. She stated that she would like the city to remain small and quaint, but
not stagnant, and suggested that changes can be made to keep the traffic low. Emily Fischio
does not want more high rises in the city center that would be close to the downtown and
preferred that the building being discussed could be utilized better. She loved Murray and didn't
want it to change for the worse.

Marcy West Rynearson

Marcy West Rynearson from Taylorsville expressed her love for Murray where she grew up
behind Murray High School. She mentioned that Murray was the heart of the valley during her
growing-up years, but there's not much left of it now. Marcy West Rynearson expressed her
concerns about the proposal to bring in more people when the city is already facing water
shortages. She questioned the idea of consuming more water when there might not be enough
in the future.

Robert Stefanik

Robert Stefanik, a resident of the Old 400 apartments in Murray, opposes the demolition of the
building for high-rise development. He moved to Murray four years ago to avoid being out-
priced by high-rises in Salt Lake City and does not want to be priced out of his current home.
He enjoys the feeling of safety and comfort that Murray provides and fears that a high-rise
development will bring crime to the area.

Craig Bennett

Craig Bennett has been a resident of Murray City since 1955, except for the 20 years he spent
in the military. He worked as a dispatcher for Murray City Police Department in the 70s and
recalls it as a nice little community. He expresses concern about the proposed high-rise
development, citing potential strains on the city's infrastructure and police department. He also
states that he would like to spend the rest of his life in his current home and would hate to see
the high-rise development move forward.

Liberty Kluse

Liberty Kluse from District One expressed her concern that putting any type of housing on the
site would be detrimental to the surrounding area. She suggested making the area a beautiful
place for citizens to gather without the traffic that high-density housing would bring. She
argued that bringing down historic buildings close to parks, where lots of housing already
exists, would be a mistake. She also raised concerns about traffic and road infrastructure,
which would require citizens to pay taxes for something they don't want. Liberty Kluse
suggested that the area should be kept as a small downtown feel to make it beautiful for the
community to gather.

Councilmember Diane Turner mentioned the council has received several emails which will be
made part of the record and confirmed all council members have read them.

No additional comments were given, and the public hearing comment period was closed.

DISCUSSION

Councilmember Pamela Cotter read into the record emails she received from Sue and Larry
Wilson, Janice Wuckert, and Karen Robertson.

   Sue and Larry Wilson

   Sue and Larry Wilson expressed their opinion that the city should retain the Arlington
   building as a community center rather than selling it to a developer for high-density
   housing. They believe that the building's proximity to Murray Park and the Murray theater
   makes it an ideal location for a community center that could be used for various classes,
   events, and even sports. They also suggest that additional parking will be needed once the
   theater reopens and that the city should take this rare opportunity to give citizens the
   community center they have been waiting for.
   Janice Wuckert

   Janice Wuckert sent an official message expressing her opposition to tearing down the
   Murray city building and replacing it with high-density apartments. She suggested
   remodeling, updating, and finding better uses for the building and property.

   Karen Robertson

   Karen Robertson expressed her love for the Arlington building and suggested finding better
   uses for it instead of tearing it down. While she recognized the structural issue, she was
   sad that restoration may not be feasible.

Councilmember Garry Hrechkosy asked Jared Hall how the proposed changes align with the
results of the Y2 survey. Jared Hall responded that the survey showed an overwhelming
consensus among citizens that downtown Murray needs to be redeveloped, which supports
the proposed changes. However, Jared Hall clarified that the changes do not necessarily
include tearing down the building and that the city has not yet reviewed proposals or decided
what to do with the building.

Councilmember Garry Hrechkosy asked Jared Hall what the process is after proposed
regulations are passed. Jared Hall explains that if the regulations pass, the RDA board and
council would feel comfortable letting their realtor market the property and consider proposals.
He reiterated that just because the zoning allows something, it doesn't mean it has to happen,
and the RDA board can decide what to do. The removal of the building might be a consequence
of taking offers on the property, but it's not certain yet. The process is far from over, and
proposals will be brought to the council to see what they like and don't like.

Councilmember Garry Hrechkosy asked Jared Hall about the parking changes and what they
entail. Jared Hall said that the parking requirements have been updated to reflect the number
of bedrooms in the unit, with a half space added per residential unit. For example, a three-
bedroom apartment would now require three parking spaces instead of the current
requirement of two and a half. This may be difficult for developers, but the city is making the
decision to consider parking and not be under-parked. It is unknown if this change will affect
the development of three-bedroom units.

Councilmember Garry Hrechkosy discussed with Jared Hall the height of the current City Hall
building and the proposed changes in height for future development. The current height of City
Hall is two stories, and it drops approximately 10 feet in the back. The proposed development
may be up to five stories due to the six-story restriction.

Jared Hall emphasized that the property is not zoned for a multifamily use, but for mixed-use
development, which requires a commercial component. Mixed-use zoning is preferred for
redevelopment in the downtown area.

Jared Hall shared that the city has existing design guidelines in place for the downtown area
that include traditional materials and good design components. However, they are just
guidelines, and the city is working on developing development standards that will be written
into code and dictate the look and feel of future redevelopment. The city is planning to issue a
contract to harden up those standards, but they don't know exactly what kind of historic look
and feel they want yet.

Councilmember Garry Hrechkosy questioned whether the resources are assessed as part of
any potential project in a city. Jared Hall confirmed the answer is yes. He stated that any
project that is proposed would go through an adequate public services review as part of a
Master Site Plan. Although this has not been done in the downtown area for a long time, they
will still go through the process again. The infrastructure in the area has been planned to
support 100 units per acre, but any future proposed project will be well under that threshold.

Councilmember Rosalba Dominguez asked about impact fees and what developers are
required to pay. Jared Hall answered that the newest impact fee is the parks impact fee, which
developers are required to pay to offset the impact of new development on park infrastructure.
The fee is collected from developers and not from citizens, and it is a significant amount of
money.

Councilmember Garry Hrechkosy asked what were the issues with the current building. Jared
Hall answered that the biggest issue is the change of use, which requires everything to be
brought up to code, including seismic codes, which are a big deal in Utah. There are also
problems with the sewer, boiler, roof, and ADA compliance, and bringing the building up to
standard would be costly, with seismic being the biggest cost factor.

Councilmember Philip Markham asked whether the planning department and city council have
done a good or bad job in portraying the process and what they are trying to achieve with the
sale of the property. Jared Hall responded the message has been muddled due to the
complexity of the issue, but the city is trying to bring it back to discussing only specific things.
The city has a duty to use taxpayer money to benefit the community, and the sale of the
property is aimed at generating funds to be used for other projects in the downtown area.
Jared Hall acknowledges the importance of community involvement in the process, even if
there may not always be agreement, and notes that they are working on improving the
information and being more transparent.

Councilmember Philip Markham addressed the audience and emphasized the importance of
doing research and not being blinded by one issue when considering a larger problem. He
asked for patience, trust, and an open mind from the audience. Councilmember Philip
Markham acknowledges a positive development in the form of a potential restaurant
cooperative and encourages proactive rather than negative action from those who feel strongly
about the issue.

Councilmember Rosalba Dominguez expressed appreciation for everyone in attendance and
the emails the council has received regarding the property development issue. She shared that
the council has worked hard to get to this point and the new administration has been
instrumental in making this effort. Councilmember Rosalba Dominguez acknowledges that
there are concerns about the size of the development and suggests considering alternative
uses for the property. Councilmember Rosalba Dominguez also encourages working with
developers to find long-term solutions and identify what the city is missing in terms of
community needs. Councilmember Rosalba Dominguez shared a personal story and explained
that the Arlington School building was not always a positive place for kids who looked like her
and there are stories of racism and bullying that most audience members have not heard. She
highlights the importance of not destroying historical properties but also understanding the
perspective of all community members.

Councilmember Pamela Cotter asked Jared Hall to explain a deed restriction that was
mentioned in an email sent to the council. Jared Hall responded that the city owns the property
and has more flexibility in selling it. Deed restrictions allow the city to choose a developer and
restrict how the property is used, such as the number of units or their location. The city has a
fiduciary duty to weigh the benefits and costs of deed restrictions against the needs of the
community.

The discussion period was closed, and a Motion was requested.

MOTION
Councilmember Garry Hrechkosy moved to adopt the Consider an ordinance amending
sections 17.170.120, 17.170.140, AND 17.170.160 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating
to the Murray City Center District (MCCD) Zone. The motion was SECONDED by
Councilmember Pamela Cotter.

Roll Call:
Ayes: Philip Markham, Pamela Cotter, Rosalba Dominguez, Diane Turner, Garry Hrechkosy

Motion passes 5-0
       The council took a 5-minute recess.

BUSINESS ITEM(S)
 1. Consider a resolution approving an agreement between Murray City Corporation and Life Safety
    Inspection Vault LLC for the collection, organization, and storage of fire and life safety inspection
    reports, Joseph Mittelman and Steve Roberson

   Minutes Attachments
   1. LIV Inspection PPT.pdf
       Chief Joseph Mittelman presented a request for an agreement between Murray City
       Corporation and Life Safety Inspection Vault LLC (LIV) for the collection, organization, and
       storage of fire and life safety inspection reports. The agreement aims to provide a more
       efficient tracking and follow-up process for Safety System inspection reports. The inspection
       companies performing inspections within the City will be required to submit their reports
       through the LIV Services and pay a $15 fixed fee for each inspection report submitted. The LIV
       reporting system allows for easy monitoring and is similar to those of other cities and will be
       carried out by the Fire Marshal.

       DISCUSSION
       Council members thanked Chief Joseph Mittelman for his presentation during the committee
       of the whole.

       MOTION
       Councilmember Philip Markham moved to adopt the resolution approving an agreement
       between Murray City Corporation and Life Safety Inspection Vault LLC for the collection,
       organization, and storage of fire and life safety inspection reports. The motion was SECONDED
       by Councilmember Pamela Cotter.

       Roll Call:
       Ayes: Philip Markham, Pamela Cotter, Rosalba Dominguez, Diane Turner, Garry Hrechkosy

       Motion passes 5-0

 2. Consider a resolution approving an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the City, the Utah
    Community Action Head Start Program and Murray City School District (District) to lease City
    property., Doug Hill
       Doug Hill presented a resolution request for an interlocal cooperation agreement between the
       City, the Utah Community Action Head Start Program, and Murray City School District to lease
       City property located at 73 West 6100 South. The lease will provide Head Start space to
       operate a community service program for low-income children and their families, and the
       District space to provide educational and recreational opportunities to City residents. The 2017
       interlocal agreement has expired, and the new agreement has certain conditions that need to
       be met. The agreement is part of the long-term relationship of cooperation and sharing of
       resources between the City and the District.

       MOTION
       Councilmember Rosalba Dominguez moved to adopt the resolution approving an Interlocal
       Cooperation Agreement between the City, the Utah Community Action Head Start Program, and
       Murray City School District to lease City property. The motion was SECONDED by
       Councilmember Garry Hrechkosy.

       Roll Call:
       Ayes: Philip Markham, Pamela Cotter, Rosalba Dominguez, Diane Turner, Garry Hrechkosy

       Motion passes 5-0

 3. Consider a resolution approving an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the City and the
    Murray City School District (District) for the license and access to a City Communication Tower.,
    Doug Hill
       Doug Hill presented an agreement between the City and Murray City School District for the
       license and access to a City communication tower. The City owns a communication tower, and
       the District has approached the City for the use of the tower to provide wireless high-speed
       internet capability to its students. The resolution is based on the Interlocal Cooperation Act
       which allows public agencies to enter into agreements for joint or cooperative actions.

       Councilmember Philip Markham acknowledges that the two business items being discussed
       showcase what makes Murray a special place - the city's relationship with its school district
       and its ability to work together to provide benefits for citizens at no cost. Councilmember Philip
       Markham hoped that those who are not present will see this and wanted it to be on record that
       the council is still striving to fulfill its goals.

       MOTION
       Councilmember Pamela Cotter moved to adopt a resolution approving an Interlocal
       Cooperation Agreement between the City and the Murray City School District (District) for the
       license and access to a City Communication Tower. The motion was SECONDED by
       Councilmember Garry Hrechkosy.

       Roll Call:
       Ayes: Philip Markham, Pamela Cotter, Rosalba Dominguez, Diane Turner, Garry Hrechkosy

       Motion passes 5-0

MAYOR'S REPORT AND QUESTIONS
 Doug Hill reported on behalf of the Mayor, who was excused.

 Doug Hill mentions the promotion of a new sergeant in the police department and the addition of two new
 police officers who recently graduated from the police academy. The public works department has been
 busy with 23 storms and spreading 5000 tons of salt, with assistance from other city departments. Doug
 Hill expresses gratitude towards the city employees for their efficient and conscientious work in clearing
 the snow, including the Murray Parkway Trail. Doug Hill discusses past flooding along Little Cottonwood
 Creek and how it may occur again due to an upcoming storm, cautioning citizens to stay away from the
 creeks and streams. He also mentioned the library website is currently down, but they are working on
 getting that back up and running. He also updated the council on the Murray mansion and theater
 renovations, with completion expected by June and February of next year, respectively.

 Council members thanked city staff for their hard work in clearing snow off the roadways and park trails.

 Councilmember Diane Turner asked if the sandbags were made out of plastic or burlap. The Mayor's
 office will look into it and let the council know.

 Councilmember Rosalba Dominguez mentioned that she was able to attend meetings in Washington D.C.
 with the Mayor and Councilmember Diane Turner. They learned a lot about power, and she encouraged
 the rest of the council to attend future meetings.

ADJOURNMENT
 The meeting was adjourned at 8:13 p.m.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
The next scheduled meeting will be held on Tuesday, March 21, 2023, at 6:30 p.m. MST.

Supporting materials are available on Murray City's website at www.murray.utah.gov.

Special Accommodations for the hearing or visually impaired will be made upon a request to the office of
Murray City Recorder (801-264-2662). We would appreciate notification two working days prior to the
meeting. TTY is Relay Utah at #711
Council Members may participate in the meeting via telephonic communication. If a Council Member does
participate via telephonic communication, the Council Member will be on speakerphone. The
speakerphone will be amplified so that the other Council Members and all other persons present in the
Council Chambers will be able to hear all discussions.

At least 24 hours prior to the meeting, a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in
the front foyer of the Murray City Center, Murray, Utah. A copy of this notice was posted on Murray City's
internet website www.murray.utah.gov and the state noticing website at http://pmn.utah.gov.
MCCD Zone,
proposed changes
Text Amendments to 17.170 regarding
height, parking, and landscaping
Areas Impacted

    Height




    Landscaping & Open Space
Areas Impacted

    Height




    Landscaping & Open Space
Height Regulations


Current:
Buildings not to exceed
Ten (10) stories or 135’


Proposed:
Buildings not to exceed
Six (6) stories or 70’
          Landscaping &
          Open Space

•   Requirement increased from 15% to 25%
    overall.
•   Turf may not comprise more than 25% of
    the total landscaping area (was 50%)
    and must be functional.
•   Exceptions to the 25% turf limitation
    may be considered if it is usable, public-
    access open space as part of the
    development.
•   Maintains existing requirements for use
    of native plants, water-conserving
    landscape designs overall, street trees,
    etc.
                       Staff recommends that City Council APPROVE the proposed text
Staff Recommendation   amendments to Chapter 17.170 of the Murray City Land Use
                       Ordinance as presented.
THANK YOU!
From:          Amanda Rock
To:            Jennifer Kennedy; Garry Hrechkosy; Diane Turner; Pam Cotter; Phil Markham
Subject:       Re: Save the Arlington!
Date:          Monday, March 6, 2023 4:14:40 PM


Hello again!

I wanted to follow up with my address, 4768 S Hanauer St. Murray, 84107. Again, I'd
love to see the Arlington building saved instead of being torn down for more condos.

Thanks,
Amanda

On Fri, Mar 3, 2023 at 10:57 AM Amanda Rock <amandarock.212@gmail.com> wrote:
 Hi all,

  I wanted to write in support of saving the Arlington building. I'd love to see our
  community using the building instead of it being torn down to build more condos.

  Thank you!
  Amanda
From:            Amy Thomas
To:              Council Citizen Comments
Cc:              Jennifer Kennedy; Brett Hales
Subject:         Mar 7 - City Council Meeting Comments
Date:            Monday, March 6, 2023 4:29:31 PM


I am writing today to encourage the City Council to prioritize the preservation of the
Arlington/City Hall building to support our collective efforts to create a better city for the
residents of Murray and future generations.

By preserving and choosing to adaptively reuse the building we already have, we can conserve
precious resources, reduce waste, save money, and still get an appropriate amount of density.
You may recall some of these statistics I shared with you in previous meetings:

   1. Studies have shown that if a new construction project includes the cost of demolishing
      an existing building, it will actually cost the developer 3%-16% more than if they had
      rehabilitated the existing building.
   2. It takes between 10 and 80 years for a new building that is 30% more efficient than an
      average-performing existing building to overcome the negative climate change impacts
      related to the construction process.
   3. Just one modestly sized house in Utah generates 350 tons of waste in the landfill. That's
      as much waste as 1 person would generate in 445 years. Rehabilitating that same house
      would only generate 50 tons of waste. Now multiply those numbers to account for how
      large the Arlington building is and also consider that construction debri accounts for
      25% of waste in municipal water stream each year.
   4. Average density in 43 of 50 cities was greater in historic neighborhoods because they
      utilize the concept of "hidden density."
   5. Studies show that Historic buildings contain more local businesses than newer and
      larger buildings. Many start-ups specifically choose to locate in historic districts due to
      the attractiveness of the buildings and neighborhood commercial vitality they usually
      embody.

When discussing the MCCD zoning changes, I ask that you consider the following:

   1. Please limit building height to no more than 4 stories.
   2. Please consider lower density, along the lines of RM15 zoning.
   3. Please consider requirements to ensure that any development prioritizes historic
      preservation and/or historic design guidelines.
   4. Please don't take away one of the few remaining green spaces we have along State
      Street in all of Salt Lake County.

The benefits of historic preservation are many for Murray - to create healthy lifestyles,
increase jobs and incomes, efficiently use our infrastructure, grow our local economy,
create a positive city image, supply affordable housing, and work toward a
sustainable future. This starts with you.

Thank you,
Amy Thomas
District 3 (205 E Vine St)
From:               Brittany
To:                 Council Citizen Comments; Rosalba Dominguez; Clarkbullen@gmail.com
Subject:            Murray City Hall Property
Date:               Tuesday, March 7, 2023 5:30:02 PM




I’m writing today to oppose high density housing at the property that is currently Murray City Hall. I own a house
next to Murray Park, near the apartments going up currently in district 3. I used to rent an apartment here in Murray,
so my perspective is that of a renter in need of options, and a homeowner whose community will be greatly
impacted. My experience as a renter has shown what issues apartment complexes pose. My main concerns are
quality of life for those immediately around the complex, and the strain on our resources: water, schools (Hillcrest is
currently already out of control with major behavioral issues), police officers, first responders, TRAFFIC on Vine
and State, etc . We also have seen that we can’t trust the developers to plan for something as basic as parking at
many of these complexes currently in Murray. My time in the apartment came with domestic violence disputes, a
murder suicide, a dead body found just outside the building, and so so many police visits to the property. I think that
realistically for the area we are talking about, the apartments going in already are a stretch. This area cannot absorb
480 apartments worth of people.

We do not need MORE apartments in Murray. We have so many new apartment complexes already, and that’s
great! We need to invest in Murray either via space the community can use, we definitely could use more
community space with the additions of apartments and housing going up currently in Murray. Alternately I’d love to
see housing people can own, townhouses for example. Too many apartments come with too many problems, and we
are at the bar of “too many” for many in this community. Please don’t enrich developers pockets by sacrificing our
community. Thank you for your time.

Brittany Hunt
From:            Cynthia Proctor
To:              Pam Cotter; Diane Turner; Garry Hrechkosy; Jennifer Kennedy; Phil Markham; Rosalba Dominguez
Subject:         City Hall
Date:            Monday, March 6, 2023 3:56:06 PM


Hello Council Members,
I live in Murray in Councilwomyn Dominguez's district, and have a comment on the use of the
city hall property.

I'm not against apartments. I know people need places to live. It's just that something different
is clearly needed as structure after is built with little regard to architecture, sense of place and
the need of humans to be part of their community.

I don't know the answer, but I can't help but wonder about the future of these places. Will they
become unnecessary and abandoned? Are temporary residences what people really need for
the long-term? Where do these residents go for walks and meeting with others in their
neighborhood? Will we wish we had more green and community space? More neighborhoods
instead of structures? More starter homes available for people transitioning from apartments?

We can get a clue from looking at the giant complexes of the Avida apartments and the
Brickgate at Fireclay area. The reviews from the residents foretell the future of buildings that
are no longer new and shiny. It also demonstrates the failure of planned retail spaces which
remain empty.

I live in Three Fountains East. I relish the grounds and see how often they are used by
residents. I can't imagine being surrounded by busy roads and cement. Where will the children
play?

My guess is that we'll be sorry we have planned without considering that Murray is a
community. As humans, we have social needs that giant complexes do not address.

Sincerely,
Cynthia Proctor
4995 S Middle Fork Ln
Salt Lake City, UT 84117
From:           David McCarty
To:             Council Citizen Comments
Cc:             RDA Email
Subject:        Old Murray City Hall
Date:           Tuesday, March 7, 2023 6:50:02 PM


Due to a scheduling conflict, I am unable to attend the meeting tonight but I wanted to share
my voice.
In one of the most recent issues of Murray City Journal, it was expressed that there was
concern about not having enough water and/or electricity to meet the demand for Murray
going forward. I share this concern, and it seems to me that high density apartments would
probably only make things worse-more so than most other choices.
The property is located at the heart of Murray and as such it would be an excellent place for
Murray City to expand its public offerings. We already have a great rec center, a heavily used
park, and the library, but he could always expand any or all of those offerings. I for one would
be very happy to pay higher taxes in order to support more offerings, whether that is for things
that we don't have (such as a climbing wall), or improving things we do have (like the library
which is adequate but could be larger and have much more in it).

Thank you for your time,

David McCarty
From:         Elayne Anderson
To:           Pam Cotter
Cc:           Council Citizen Comments
Subject:      Murray City Hall
Date:         Monday, March 6, 2023 2:18:24 PM


In my opinion most Murray residents would like something other than high density
apartments built on the Murray City Hall property. Can we have something at this
location that makes Murray different than every other place?
It would be nice to have a community center or a new library there. The Viridian Event
Center Library in West Jordan has so many fun programs for people of all ages and I
would love to see something like that in this space.
When my children were teenagers, Murray had a roller skating rink, a movie theater,
and the Galleria for kids to go to hang out together. Last summer Murray Park hosted
the Food Trucks every Tuesday evening and it was a great place to meet up with
friends or family.
I believe this property should be used for something that the people who already live
here can be proud of and gives us all some new things to do.
Thank you,
Elayne Anderson
From:            Frances George
To:              Council Citizen Comments
Subject:         Fwd: Murray City Hall
Date:            Tuesday, March 7, 2023 4:18:31 PM




---------- Forwarded message ---------
From: Frances George <fpgeorge74@gmail.com>
Date: Tue, Mar 7, 2023 at 4:12 PM
Subject: Murray City Hall
To: <ghrechkosy@murray.utah.gov>


I am sending this email to let you know that I oppose our current Murray City Hall becoming
480 apartments. I believe that would create a lot of traffic and parking issues in that area as
well as detracting from our downtown Murray. Also are there water resources sufficient for
480 apartments?

As a citizen of Murray I would like to see historic downtown Murray preserved and this
building used for community space.

Frances George
From:               Jane Willie
To:                 Council Citizen Comments
Subject:            A new library, no more apartments!
Date:               Tuesday, March 7, 2023 3:15:16 PM




I oppose turning the old city hall into apartments. We need to keep an historic district visible on State Street, not
more apartments.
Why not refurbish it and move the Murray City Library there? We need a bigger library. Or add an Arts Ctr with a
larger Library. No more apartments!

BTW, that new apartment complex on Vine Street, behind the PO and Police Station is an eye sore and way too
high. I am very disappointed that the city council signed off on that.

Sincerely,
Jane Willie Sent from my iPhone
From:            Kathy Dokos
To:              Council Citizen Comments
Subject:         High Rise Apartment Building
Date:            Tuesday, March 7, 2023 2:58:56 PM


I am unable to attend the meeting tonight, but I do want my voice heard. " Enough is enough"
 housing in our city. Leave the building as an Historical Memory to Murray, Utah. Thank you K. Dokos
From:             wildekari@aol.com
To:               Diane Turner; Council Citizen Comments; RDA Email
Cc:               kennedy@murray.utah.gov; Brett Hales; Doug Hill
Subject:          Opposition to Murray City Hall becoming 480 Apartments
Date:             Tuesday, March 7, 2023 2:05:57 PM


I am opposing the Murray City Hall becoming another housing development.

We are ruining the wonderful city Murray has been. As a lifetime resident with multiple generations of
family living
in our city I am concerned for our future. Not only do we have a multitude of office buildings that are
empty all of the most
recent land developments are now becoming Multiple Resident housing.  

We are taking away the ability for Single Resident homes to be built, children to play in their own yards all
for the sake of the ALL Mighty Dollar. We should be focusing on keeping this an upscale city that has
enough resources such as land, power & water to keep our residents going for quite some time.

The more multiple housing developments we build the more low cost housing we will be providing. This
will become a problem in our city in the future. There is already too much traffic in this area of Murray to
add another 480 households would be detrimental to our road situation.

I am all for utilizing the existing building and land in a way that will benefit our Residents positively such
as a grocery store, entertainment center that is family friendly (examples; Fat Cats, bowling alley, Kidz
Empire, movie theater). We need to start looking at what our city will look like in 30 or 40 years vs what it
looks like today. The last 40 years has changed us so much we forgot the old family style city we had.  

When people from out of town come visit they always say this is looking like a smaller version of "LA".
That is the last place I would want to live, but keep adding more and more High Density Housing and
Large Business Buildings this is what we will have.  

Kari Dunn
5887 S Hatton Circle
From:            kristine Lavon
To:              Council Citizen Comments
Subject:         Arlington
Date:            Monday, March 6, 2023 7:39:56 PM


To whom it may concern, I am against selling this property to another developer. We could have a
community center were community could gather for so many events. If you do sell to a developer.
Please make it condos so the people will own there units and it gives people a chance to get into the
real estate market at some level. We should be building condos instead of apartments. Require that
the owners have to live in the units, and the city could provided first time home buyers incentives.
People should feel invested in our community and home ownership will do that! Folks want to buy a
place to live, condos in the 275,000 space would make that possible. Thank you for listening.

Kristine Lavon

Sent from Mail for Windows
From:               Michael Caggiano
To:                 Phil Markham; Pam Cotter; Rosalba Dominguez; Diane Turner; Garry Hrechkosy; Brett Hales
Cc:                 Jennifer Kennedy
Subject:            Murray City Hall - please no high density apartments
Date:               Saturday, March 4, 2023 6:11:45 PM




Hello,

My name is Mike Caggiano. My family and I live on Vine St next to Parkside Elementary. Regarding the Murray
City Hall property. I’m sure you are going to receive significant pushback. While I am vehemently against more
apartments, I’d like to propose some alternatives. I’m disappointed that every large property is being pushed for
high density. It is ruining the feel of the town. Below are some suggestions. Please listen to the citizens that already
live here and consider these alternatives.

Just commercial
Some on the council have mentioned a medical office building. There is one really close, by the pickleball courts,
that is 3 stories and historic looking. It makes sense to take advantage of all the medical activity in the area. I have
heard a nursing school suggested. Also a restaurant collective. I'd love to see a growing start-up locate in Murray.
We have a great location for a corporate office. The council could change the zoning to only allow commercial, no
residential.

Community Space
The library needs to grow and expand. I'd love to see a community center with a library, arts rehearsal space,
community gathering rooms etc. That would be perfect for the renovated Murray Theater nextdoor. Keeping our
library in the downtown area makes a lot of sense and having it close to the arboretum would be nice. I know this is
the least likely scenario as the council has indicated wanting this to become a tax/income generating property but
hey, a guy can dream. If anyone knows a higher up at IHC that could facilitate them donating the money to make
this happen, I'm all ears.

Medium Density housing
If the argument and demand for housing is just too persuasive then may I suggest medium density housing. A strong
community has a mix of available housing and it seems we are heavy on the high density apartment end. Medium
Density like RM 15 is more likely to be townhomes or condos for sale. These could be homes for those who work in
the hospital among others who may take trax to work in downtown SLC. This is not my first choice but maybe a
better alternative to the 480 apartments

Some things to consider
Many of these scenarios could incorporate a restoration of the current city hall building, the historic Arlington
school. If a developer preserves all or part of the building then their building/permit fees are waived. The city could
place a deed restriction on the sale requiring the preservation of the Arlington as part of whatever new build they
pursue. There is a whole 6 acres to build on, they could build behind the Arlington and use it as a communal space.
There was a feasibility study done under mayor Dan Snarr showing it was feasible and more cost effective to keep
the building than tear it down. Keeping history out of landfills is always good.

Parking
This property is supposed to provide parking for the renovated/restored Murray Theater. Apartments use parking at
night when a theater/performance venue needs the parking. They have suggested putting parking by Ken price
ballpark but that is too far away from the theater. Corporate offices and a community space could share the parking
well.

Historic design requirement
Murray conducted a city wide survey about downtown. Over 70% of respondents prefer a historic look and feel for
downtown Murray. Think of historic downtowns you are familiar with? Isn't it great that it all looks like it belongs
downtown, you can tell when you're downtown and it attracts people to the area to spend their time and money. A
destination if you will. This building will be next to a restored Murray Theater and restored Murray Armory. People
say they like Holladay downtown. Those buildings aren't all historic but they follow a historic design guideline. This
is our chance to set such a guideline and include this property which would start our downtown in the right
direction.

Thanks,
Mike Caggiano

Sent from my iPhone
From:           rachel morot
To:             Phil Markham; Pam Cotter; Rosalba Dominguez; Diane Turner; Garry Hrechkosy
Cc:             Jennifer Kennedy
Subject:        Comments for Public Hearing on Tuesday, March 7th
Date:           Monday, March 6, 2023 10:50:24 AM
Attachments:    Arlington Visualization - Community Center.pdf
                Arlington Visualization - Shops (1).pdf
                Arlington Visualization - Housing.pdf
                Historic Architectural Services Study.pdf



Hello Murray CIty Council members,

I know most of you and look forward to meeting with Phil sometime soon. Welcome to the
council Phil. I'm sure you know by now that we have a diligent group of individuals on our city
council.



I wanted to comment by email so that I could attach some files for your consideration as part
of my advocacy for preserving and repurposing the Arlington School/current city hall. I know
that you all are aware of my desires to see this building continue to stand and serve Murray
Citizens as it has done since the 1930's. We have so few of our historic public buildings left,
which makes each one more valuable with the increasing rarity. I am commenting here as an
individual citizen asking you to please deed restrict the Arlington building before putting the 6
acres of property on the market. You have the power and responsibility to do this for the
citizens of Murray who elected you and will be electing or re-electing you this November. It is
abundantly evident that the public will stands on the side of smaller, human scale buildings
like the Arlington and decidedly against more high-density high-rise developments
PARTICULARLY near Murray City Park. You already know what Gary Howland is planning for
the other side of Murray Park and the overwhelm will be real. Kim Sorensen's team does a
beautiful job of maintaining our parks and I have a lot of respect for him. It would be a shame
to undo all of that with too much density bordering Murray Park. All it takes is a scan of the
comments section on the Murray Facebook pages any time adding density is mentioned, to
know exactly what people think of that plan in general and in the downtown sector of the
State Street corridor in particular. Murray Theater will be considered as part of historic
downtown Murray (as it should be.) It doesn't make sense that the Arlington should be
excluded from that in the zoning changes being considered. Murray City has done a great job
of preserving and renovating the Murray Mansion and the theater and we appreciate that. I'm
asking that you consider putting more density elsewhere. PLEASE do not allow the historic
Arlington to be another casualty of the over-development push in Murray. The RDA has a lot
of other holdings to put density, if we must have it, that will not erase one of our last historic
resources. I have to say that I and the citizens of Murray (again, check through the public
forums and the results of the Edlen open house and the Y2 Survey results for evidence) are
dismayed at the lack of vision and willingness to pursue alternative solutions to the "status
quo big money, big development" continually pursued by Murray City planning and decision
makers. I have met with each of you, with the mayor and with his staff, and with Jared Hall on
numerous occasions and discussed ways that our historic resources can be revitalized and
incorporated with new, historically harmonious infill to create a beautiful, livable and unique
experience for the citizens and that will draw people from all over the valley to spend time
and money in our city. I have sought answers from the city, even giving the benefit of the
doubt concerning pressure you may be under from the state and county levels. I was told by
Doug Hill at one of these recent meetings that it's not really a pressure situation from the
state yet, but that there is a state law requiring each municipality to submit plans to
accommodate more density. Murray has gone above and beyond already in that respect. (RC
Willey, K-Mart, Fireclay, Point at 53rd, all the new density west of IMC, ad nauseum.) It's time
to stop. You are our voice, we are saying "enough is enough". We count on you to reflect that
with your votes this Tuesday.

As to the attached files. I am including some renderings that my non-profit, the Historic
Murray First Foundation commissioned from CRSA architects to show what could be done
with the Arlington building. We asked for three different options: a commercial market,
affordable housing, and a community center/library. Any one of these would be a great
adaptive reuse of the space. I acknowledge that a moderate height addition is necessary and
could be added in the form of two stories over a parking garage at the back of the Arlington
which could provide additional retail/restaurant or office space. Personally, I would like to see
the Arlington repurposed as the ARC or Arlington Restaurant Collective and added on to at the
back for a total of 5 stories in height (including the parking garage underneath) in a style that
harmonizes with its art deco facade. The rooftop of the original building could be structured
as outdoor dining, serving the restaurants on the upper two floors. I am in talks with a
commercial developer interested in the property who may be able to make this work. In the
Y2 Analytics survey respondents said that they want more bar and dining options in
downtown. This would be a great way to accomplish that and preserve the building, (keeping
it out of the landfill) and secure the tax revenue that is so important to Murray City. The
parking garage could serve both the Murray Theater and the Arlington Restaurant Collective
because theater crowds will want dining options before or after shows. Not to mention that
IMC would be patronizing it every day. People want more locally owned non chain restaurant
options in the community, and small businesses need a place to establish other than ground
floor retail level of Edlen style projects that only chain restaurants can afford to pay.  

I have also attached the 2004 feasibility study commissioned by Murray City and undertaken
by FFKR/Entelen architects which outlines several scenarios the city could pursue at the time
and recommends adaptive reuse of the building. We GRAMA requested this as the latest
feasibility study we could find that was done on the property and I have highlighted the
recommended scenarios on pages 17, 20 and 23. Our purpose in looking this up was to
determine the viability of the Arlington for adaptive reuse. I realize this information is 20 years
old, but compared to the life span of the building, I believe it is still important to consider.
On a personal note, you know how involved I have been through Historic Murray First
Foundation in advocating for the future of our city. I do this nearly full-time on a completely
volunteer basis in addition to being full-time at my job. No one in Historic Murray First
Foundation is paid. We are100% volunteer. I mention this to illustrate that there are many
more important things in this world than money. I want you to know that I make these efforts
because I love and value Murray as home and as an independent oasis in the middle of Salt
Lake valley, which is selling its character and soul and receiving in return terrible, low quality,
disposable architecture. The ways in which you as policy makers can prevent Murray from
succumbing to the same fate is by deed restricting the Arlington, encouraging city planners to
implement design style guides that developers must follow in planning new structures and
most importantly, restoring our historic preservation protections that were gutted by the last
administration in 2019. It is clear that the public will for all of these things is very much alive.

Thank you for considering the concerns of the taxpaying, homeowning, voting stakeholders of
Murray before the concerns of the brokers and the developers.

Sincerely,

Rachel Morot
S AV E T H E


ARLINGTON                                                          1939




SCENARIO 01

COMMUNITY      Scenario 01 explores the possibility of maintaining the historic school as
               a public space. This option would provide the opportunity for a potential
               library, community, cultural or senior center for the Murray community.
CENTER
S AV E T H E


ARLINGTON                                                          1939




SCENARIO 03

COMMERCIAL     Scenario 03 continues the rich commercial legacy of Murray’s segment of
               State Street, adapting the Arlington into a collection of boutique shops,
               local eateries and coffee shops. Upper level can be used as rentable
MARKET         workspaces, or house space for entities such as non-profits.
S AV E T H E


ARLINGTON                                                                1939




SCENARIO 02

A F F O R DA B L E   Scenario 02 proposes re-imagining the Arlington as housing for Murray
                     residents. Using the school as residences for low-income community
                     members both helps address the crucial need for affordable housing, while
HOUSING              also keeping a local landmark intact.
From:               Reynold Willie
To:                 Council Citizen Comments
Subject:            Oppose Apartments
Date:               Tuesday, March 7, 2023 3:27:40 PM




I oppose making the old city hall into apartments. I would like to see a library or an Art center or something that
represents Murray and what Murray stands for. It is too nice of a building to lose. It more than anything else
represents what Murray is!

Reynold D. Willie (a Murray resident)


Sent from my iPhone
Inspection Tracking Software
Receiving Reports From Sprinkler and Alarm Companies



Tags on the                                Alarm
                    Tags on the
 Sprinkler                               Monitoring
                   Alarm Panels
  System                                 Companies
       How will LIV improve Murray?

Upload inspection documents



Assist businesses and apartments with staying alarmed for their
protection



No cost to the city and businesses cost stay the same
Questions
 Special
Recognition
   Special
Recognition #1
                                    City Council/Mayor

                                   Employee of the Month - Wendy
                                   Saunders

                                    Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                    Meeting Date: March 21, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Employee of the Month recognition
Jennifer Kennedy
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Informational only.
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Recognition form.
Diane Turner
Brooke Smith
                    Budget Impact
                         None



                    Description of this Item
                         See Employee of the Month Recognition Form
Required Time for
Presentation


Is This Time
Sensitive
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
March 10, 2023
                           EMPLOYEE OF THE MONTH RECOGNITION



DEPARTMENT:                                              DATE:




NAME of person to be recognized:                         Submitted by:




DIVISION AND JOB TITLE:




YEARS OF SERVICE:



REASON FOR RECOGNITION:




COUNCIL USE:

MONTH/YEAR HONORED
Wendy is super reliable and always available to fill in gaps in coverage when other employees call in sick
or are out of town. Her flexibility and willingness to help out have been invaluable to the Passport office,
and her colleagues appreciate her reliability and commitment to the team. Wendy's selflessness and
can-do attitude have made a significant impact on the efficiency and productivity of the office.

Moreover, Wendy is learning the Spanish language to help clients who speak English as a second
language. She makes every effort to ensure that clients understand the processes and procedures,
which can often be confusing and overwhelming. Wendy's empathetic and patient approach has
resulted in positive feedback from clients who appreciate her dedication to serving them.

In addition to her language skills, Wendy excels in customer service. Clients always walk away from their
interaction with her saying that the process was easier than expected and that they appreciate her
friendly demeanor and willingness to help out. Her attention to detail and the personalized service she
provides have set a standard for excellent customer service in the office.

In conclusion, Wendy Saunders is an exceptional employee who deserves recognition for her hard work
and dedication. I strongly recommend her for the Employee of the Month award.
   Special
Recognition #2
                                   City Council

                                    :ŽŝŶƚZĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐƵƉƉŽƌƚŝŶŐŚŝůĚ
                                    ďƵƐĞWƌĞǀĞŶƚŝŽŶDŽŶƚŚ

                                    ŽƵŶĐŝůDĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗March 21, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 A Joint Resolution supporting April 2023 as Child Abuse
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ<ĞŶŶĞĚǇ         Prevention Month
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  /ŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶĂůŽŶůǇ
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         :ŽŝŶƚZĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
Mayor Hales
Sheri Van Bibber
                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        A Joint Resolution of the Mayor and the Municipal Council of
Presentation             Murray City, Utah in Support of the Murray Exchange Club by
                         Recognizing and Declaring April 2023 as Child Abuse Prevention
                         Month.
Is This Time
Sensitive
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
March 6, 2023
                               Joint Resolution # 23-15

A Joint Resolution of the Mayor and the Municipal Cou ncil of Murray City,
Utah in Support of the Murray Exchange Club by Recognizing and Declaring
April 2023 as Child Abuse Prevention Month


WHEREAS, the children of Murray are the future of our state’s success and investing in
their general welfare, safety and livelihood are of utmost priority; and

WHEREAS, all children deserve to grow up in a safe and nurturing environment to assure
they reach their full potential as they grow and develop; and

WHEREAS, the protection of children and strengthening of families is of concern and
responsibility of all Murray citizens because the wellness of children affects our lives now
and will continue to affect us in the future; and

WHEREAS, child abuse is a serious problem with 165 suspected child abuse calls in the
city of Murray last year, with each of those cases impacting an entire family and affecting
the community as a whole: and

WHEREAS, child abuse respects no racial, religious, socio-economic, or geographic
boundaries, and

WHEREAS, all citizens of Murray need to become more aware of child abuse and its
prevention within their respective communities and actively encourage and support
parents to raise their children in a safe and nurturing environment, and

WHEREAS, preventing child abuse requires each member of the community to be
attentive to the problems of families around them and commit to do everything they can
to help.

WHEREAS, The National Exchange Club has adopted this cause as its National
Project and is supporting parent aide programs, parenting classe s, educational
programs and community service activities, and is helping to make significant
progress in stopping this crime against families and children; and

WHEREAS, the Murray Exchange Club members are active and positive
participants in the City of Murray in accordance with the standards of the
National Exchange Club; and

WHEREAS, The Murray Exchange Club is anxious and appreciative to share this
worthwhile cause and opportunity with Murray Ci ty;

NOW THEREFORE, the Mayor and City Council of Murray on behalf of the citizens of
Murray, proclaim April 2023 as CHILD ABUSE PREVENTION MONTH and we call upon
all our citizens to renew their commitment to be educated on the impact of child abuse
and join in working for its prevention within our communities.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that in support of the Murray Exchange Club and
this worthwhile cause, Murray Ci ty will fly the Child Abuse Prevention Flag in front
of City Hall under our flags from April 1st through April 30th.

We are appreciative of the work, care, and concern that our Victim Advocates,
Police and Detectives put forth in dealing with these tough cases. It is our hope
that those numbers will decrease as families develop healthy caring, nurturing, and
loving relationships; and

BE IT STILL FURTHER RESOLVED, we commend the Murray Exchange Club
for their continued efforts in helping families break free from this vicious cycle of
Child Abuse. Our Nation's greatest asset is our children. All C h i l d ren deserve
to grow-up in a safe and nurturing environment to assure they reach their full
potential.



Passed, Approved and Adopted this 21st day of March, in the year 2023.


Murray City Corporation                       Murray City Municipal Council



Mayor Brett A. Hales                          Phil Markham, District 1



                                              Pam Cotter, District 2



                                              Rosalba Dominguez, District 3


ATTEST:
                                              Diane Turner, District 4



Brooke Smith, City Recorder                   Garry Hrechkosy, District 5
          Citizen
         Comments
Limited to three minutes, unless otherwise approved by Council
Public Hearing
                                    Power Department

                                    Navajo Tribal Utility Project


                                      Council Meeting

Council Action Request                Meeting Date: March 21, 2023



Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Send Power Department employees to the 4 Corners area to
Blaine Haacke            help install power for the Navajo Nation/ June 17-24, 2023.

                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Inform the council for recommendation / approval
801-264-2715
                    Attachments
Presenters
Blaine Haacke
Bruce Turner
                    Budget Impact
                         See below (2nd page) for cost estimates.



                    Description of this Item
                         Public Hearing/Resolution
Required Time for
Presentation
                         We are proposing to send a group of line personnel to the
15 Minutes               Navajo Nation in and around the 4 Corners area. The group
Is This Time             would consist of 5 workers (1 line crew supervisor and 4
                         apprentices). They would leave on June 17th and work for six
Sensitive
                         days and return on June 24th. They will be taking a Murray City
No
                         Power line truck, a bucket truck, and a crew truck.
Mayor’s Approval



Date
February 17, 2023
Continued from Page 1:
Estimated Cost:
Five-man crew 40 hours/6 days
Five-man crew 24 hours/6 days overtime   $30,600.00
Line Truck, bucket truck, crew truck     $ 7,500.00
Per diem                                 $ 3,000.00

Total estimated cost:                    $41,100.00
                                  Murray City Corporation

                            NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

       NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that on the 21st day of March, 2023, at the hour of
6:30 p.m. of said day in the Council Chambers of Murray City Center, 5025 South State
Street, Murray, Utah, the Murray City Municipal Council will hold and conduct a hearing
to receive public comment concerning a proposed resolution which would authorize the
City’s Power Department to provide volunteers and the donation of services and
nonmonetary assistance to the Navajo Tribal Utility Authority to aid in a project to
construct electrical infrastructure for Navajo Nation homes which do not have electricity.


        DATED this 24th day of February 2023.



                                             MURRAY CITY CORPORATION


                                             _____________________________________
                                             Brooke Smith
                                             City Recorder



Date of Publication: March 6, 2023
PH23-03

Post:

1.      in at least three conspicuous places within the City; and
2.      on the Utah Public Notice website.


UCA Section 10-8-2(a)(v).
                                RESOLUTION NO. R23-16__

       A RESOLUTION APPROVING THE DONATION OF CITY
       SERVICES AND/OR NONMONETARY ASSISTANCE TO THE
       NAVAJO TRIBAL UTILITY AUTHORITY’S “LIGHT UP NAVAJO”
       INITIATIVE PROJECT

      WHEREAS, in accordance with section 10-8-2 of the Utah Code the City Council
may authorize municipal services and/or nonmonetary assistance to be provided to
nonprofit entities regardless of whether the City receives consideration in return; and

      WHEREAS, the Navajo Nation is the largest Native American territory in the
United States. Among the 55,000 homes located on the 27,000 square mile reservation,
about 15,000 do not have electricity; and

       WHEREAS, the Navajo Tribal Utility Authority (NTUA), a nonprofit entity created
by the Navajo Nation, has launched the “Light Up Navajo” initiative (the “Initiative”), in
which it is seeking volunteer crews and in-kind donations of expert labor and the use of
power truck equipment in order to help expedite electrification projects within the Navajo
Nation; and

      WHEREAS, under the Initiative, volunteer crews would be working with NTUA
crews to help build electric lines to serve homes for the first time; and

         WHEREAS, the American Public Power Association (APPA) has asked member
utilities to assist with the Initiative and is helping to approve volunteer registrations; and

        WHEREAS, as a member of the APPA, the City wants to be responsive and
assist the NTUA with the Initiative by (1) providing a crew, (2) paying the crew a per
diem, and (3) covering the cost of transporting the power trucks to and from the Navajo
Nation; and

       WHEREAS, the NTUA will provide all materials for the electrification projects, as
well as food and lodging for City crews; and
      WHEREAS, City crews would volunteer in the Navajo Nation from June 17, 2023
through June 24, 2023; and
       WHEREAS, pursuant to section 10-8-2 of the Utah Code, the City Council held a
public hearing on March 21, 2023 to receive and consider public comment on the City’s
proposed donations to assist with the Initiative;

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council as
follows:

       1. It hereby approves and authorizes the donation of City services and/or
          monetary assistance to the NTUA in support of the Light Up Navajo initiative.
     2. It authorizes the Mayor to execute any documents required to implement the
        City’s participation in the Initiative.


     DATED this    day of March, 2023.



                                     MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                     ___________________________________
                                     Garry Hrechkosy, Chair


ATTEST



_____________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
Business Items
Business Item #1
Business Item #2
Adjournment
