      M




Council Meeting
January10, 2023
                        Murray City Municipal Council
                             Notice of Meeting
                                      January 10, 2023
                                     Murray City Center
                         5025 South State Street, Murray, Utah 84107


Meeting Agenda

4:15 p.m.      Committee of the Whole – Conference Room #107
               Diane Turner conducting

Approval of Minutes
      Committee of the Whole – December 6, 2022

Discussion Items
    1. Reports from Murray City representatives who serve on interlocal boards and commissions.
       a. Utah Infrastructure Agency (UIA) – Brenda Moore (5 minutes)
       b. Valley Emergency Communications Center, Metro Fire and Utah Telecommunications
           Open Infrastructure Agency (UTOPIA) – Doug Hill (15 minutes)
       c. Council of Governments (COG) and Central Valley Water – Mayor Hales (10 minutes)
       d. Jordan River Commission – Bruce Holyoak (5 minutes)
    2. Human Resources Department Report – Robyn Colton (30 minutes)
    3. State Homeland Security Training Grant for HAZMAT Materials – Joey Mittelman (10 minutes)
    4. Interlocal Agreement with Murray School District for a Music Specialist – Doug Hill (5minutes)
    5. FY 2022-2023 Budget Amendment – Brenda Moore (15 minutes)

Adjournment

The public may view the Council Meeting via the live stream at www.murraycitylive.com or
https://www.facebook.com/Murraycityutah/. Those wishing to have their comments read into the record
may send an email by 5:00 p.m. the day prior to the meeting date to city.council@murray.utah.gov.
Comments are limited to less than three minutes (approximately 300 words for emails) and must include
your name and address.

6:30 p.m.      Council Meeting – Council Chambers
               Pam Cotter conducting.

Opening Ceremonies
      Call to Order
      Pledge of Allegiance

Approval of Minutes
      None scheduled.

Special Recognition
       None Scheduled.
Murray City Council Agenda
January 10, 2023                                                                                       2


Citizen Comments
        Comments will be limited to three minutes, step to the microphone, state your name
        and city of residence, and fill out the required form.

Consent Agenda
Mayor Hales presenting.
   1. Consider confirmation of the Mayor’s reappointment of Cami Munk to the Murray City
      Arts Advisory Board beginning January 2023 to January 2026.
   2. Consider confirmation of the Mayor’s reappointment of Robert Wyss to the Murray City
      Arts Advisory Board beginning January 2023 to January 2026.
   3. Consider confirmation of the Mayor’s reappointment of Lynn Andersen to the Murray
      City Senior Recreation Center Board beginning February 2023 to January 2026.
   4. Consider confirmation of the Mayor’s reappointment of Susan Hatcher to the Murray
      City Senior Recreation Center Board beginning February 2023 to January 2026.
   5. Consider confirmation of the Mayor’s new appointment of Jai-Dee Riches to the Murray
      City Arts Advisory Board beginning January 2023 to January 2025.
   6. Consider confirmation of the Mayor’s new appointment of Kev Nemelka to the Murray
      City Arts Advisory Board beginning January 2023 to January 2025.
   7. Consider confirmation of the Mayor’s new appointment of Blair Lyon to the Murray City
      Arts Advisory Board beginning January 2023 to January 2025.
   8. Consider confirmation of the Mayor’s new appointment of Lindsey Smith to the Murray
      City Arts Advisory Board beginning January 2023 to January 2025.

Public Hearings
   None scheduled.

Business Items
   1. Consider an ordinance amending Section 3.04.050 of the Murray City Municipal Code
       regarding electronic payment fees. Brenda Moore presenting.
   2. Election of the City Council Chair and Vice Chair and consider a resolution appointing the
       Chair and Vice Chair for the Murray City Municipal Council for calendar year 2023. Diane
       Turner presenting.
   3. Election of the Budget and Finance Committee Chair and Vice Chair and consider a
       resolution appointing the Chair and Vice Chair of the Budget and Finance Committee of
       the Murray City Municipal Council for calendar year 2023. Diane Turner presenting.
   4. Consider a resolution approving the City Council’s appointment of representatives to
       Boards and Committees. Pam Cotter presenting.
   5. Consider a resolution approving the Mayor’s appointment of representatives to boards
       of Interlocal Entities and to a Community Development Corporation. Mayor Hales
       presenting.

Mayor’s Report and Questions

Adjournment
                                                          NOTICE

Supporting materials are available for inspection on the Murray City website at www.murray.utah.gov.
Murray City Council Agenda
January 10, 2023                                                                                                                3


Special accommodations for the hearing or visually impaired will be made upon a request to the office of the Murray City
Recorder (801-264-2663). We would appreciate notification two working days prior to the meeting. TTY is Relay Utah at #711.

Council Members may participate in the meeting via telephonic communication. If a Council Member does participate via
telephonic communication, the Council Member will be on speaker phone. The speaker phone will be amplified so that the
other Council Members and all other persons present in the Council Chambers will be able to hear all discussions.

On Friday, January 6, 2023, at 9:00 a.m., a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of the
Murray City Center, Murray, Utah. Copies of this notice were provided for the news media in the Office of the City Recorder. A
copy of this notice was posted on Murray City’s internet website www.murray.utah.gov. and the state noticing website at
http://pmn.utah.gov .




                                                                     Jennifer Kennedy
                                                                     Council Executive Director
                                                                     Murray City Municipal Council
     M




 Committee
of the Whole
 Committee
of the Whole
   Minutes
                                     MURRAY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                      COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
                                            Meeting Minutes
                                       Tuesday, December 6, 2022
           Murray City Center - 5025 South State Street, Council Chambers, Murray, Utah 84107
                              _____________________________________


Attendance:

    Council Members and others:

    Vacant                      District #1
    Diane Turner –Chair         District #4
    Pam Cotter                  District #2 – Excused
    Rosalba Dominguez           District #3
    Garry Hrechkosy             District #5

    Brett Hales      Mayor                              Jennifer Kennedy   City Council Executive Director
    Doug Hill        Chief Administrative Officer       Pattie Johnson     Council Administration
    Tammy            Chief Communications Officer       Jared Hall         CED Director
    G.L. Critchfield City Attorney                      Zack Smallwood     Senior Planner
    Robert Wood HBME, LLC                               Emily Barton       Finance
    Joann Miller Finance                                Brenda Moore       Finance Director
    Loran Pasalich Murray Chamber of Commerce           Brooke Smith       City Recorder
    Craig Burnett Police Chief                          Jared Hall         CED
    Rachel Morot Historic Murray 1st Foundation         Kim Sorensen       Parks & Recreation Director

Conducting: Council Member Turner called the meeting to order at 3:45 pm.

Approval of Minutes: Committee of the Whole – November 1, 2022 and November 15, 2022.
   Council Member Hrechkosy moved to approve both sets of minutes and Council Member Dominguez
   seconded the motion.
   All in favor 3-0.

Discussion Items:
  Presentation of independent audit for Fiscal Year 2021-2022:
    Ms. Moore invited Mr. Wood, CPA with HBME, LLC to present the fiscal year 2021-2022 audit. Mr.
    Wood presented the financial statement, gave an overview, and noted that Murray City had applied
    for the Government Finance Officers Association Certificate, and he expected the City to receive it.

    Mr. Wood said he gave the City an Unmodified opinion, which was the best opinion that could be
    given. He said all governmental activities, all business activities in each major fund, and aggregated
    information presented to him was fairly stated and in accordance with governmental accounting
    standards. Various reports regarding internal controls and compliance to State laws, regulations, and
    contracts were found to have no discrepancies in processing transactions. Mr. Wood said the City has
    good separation of duties among the finance staff and senior management and there were no issues
    to report.

    Mr. Hrechkosy asked if there were any adjustments booked. Mr. Wood said four occurred, and they
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
December 6, 2022                                   DRAFT                                              Page 2




    were recorded in the financials.

    Mr. Wood noted the State Auditor Office Report and the State Compliance Guide to confirm that tests
    were conducted on budgetary compliance, the fund balance, justice court operations and the
    handling of restricted taxes and other restricted revenues. He explained that the fraud risk
    assessment was conducted once a year which helps cities realize what changes can be made to
    controls to prevent fraud. Various governmental fees were also tested to determine whether the
    expense was sufficient to cover governmental costs. Compliance to impact fees were analyzed, all
    funds were audited as well, fund by fund, and he did not find any material errors, significant
    deficiencies, or material weaknesses in any of the State compliance findings.

    Mr. Wood said Murray’s GF (General Fund) is healthy and the fund balance would remain at 24.1%,
    The City’s five main governmental funds and proprietary funds were also tested; all were found to
    have no issues or concerns.

    Mr. Wood presented balance sheets for all governmental funds and business type activities that
    require a user fee for services like power, water, sewer, solid waste collection and storm water, and
    the golf course

    The Statement of Activities was reviewed. Mr. Wood said everything is operating healthy and there
    were no issues with any of the fund balances, no funds were found to be deficit, and all are in a strong
    net position.

    The overall budget was reviewed. The City budgeted $47 million; $55.9 million was collected, so there
    was an increase of $8.8 million. Total expenditures were budgeted at $49.6 million, and the City spent
    $44.8 million which provided a budget savings of $4.8 million. Ms. Moore confirmed she prepared
    the budget not knowing how sales tax revenue would do following the pandemic, so she budgeted
    low, but revenue came in high. Mr. Wood said sales tax revenue in Murray came in very strong. Ms.
    Moore noted that expenditures were kept at a minimum because City department directors paid close
    attention to purchasing only what they needed. All savings would be applied to future capital
    improvement projects. Mr. Wood said there were no findings to report.

    Mr. Wood concluded that the City’s finances are in excellent order and stated this was a true and
    complete audit as only minimal adjustments were necessary. Mr. Hrechkosy agreed the audit was
    clean and commended Ms. Moore and her team for great work.

  An ordinance amending Section 3.04.050 of the Murray City Municipal code regarding electronic
  payment fees:
    Ms. Moore explained that currently Murray City Code does not allow the City to charge a fee to
    customers for processing their credit card payments even though credit card companies will allow the
    City to do so.

    She explained how building permit fees sparked the idea of charging credit card fees to developers,
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
December 6, 2022                                   DRAFT                                              Page 3




    because they pay large deposits and building permit fees with a credit card which generates a large
    credit card processing fee to the City. If the City were to implement an electronic payment fee for
    building permits, the maximum the City could charge would be 3.5% of a transaction.

    Mr. Hrechkosy asked how much the City paid in credit card processing fees. Ms. Moore replied
    $30,000 per month. She said it was not the small transactions that created the expense, but
    thousand-dollar deposits paid by developers. Deposits are eventually refunded back to developers at
    100%, so it is this type of transaction that leaves the City with a high credit card processing expense.
    She said the proposed fee would never be applied to a utility credit card payment because the Utility
    Department receives a special processing rate as a utility provider. The amendment also allows Ms.
    Moore to choose what transactions would be subject to a credit card processing fee.

    Mr. Hrechkosy requested a breakdown of the $30,000 expense to understand better the bulk of that
    cost to the City. Ms. Moore agreed to provide that information.

    Ms. Dominguez confirmed the proposed amendment would not change current Code but would add
    a new section to the Code which clarifies meaning and details for specific Electronic Payment Fees.
    Ms. Moore agreed the resolution specifies when the City would implement the fee, that would be set
    by Mayor Hales, in accordance with the maximum amount of 3.5% determined by credit card
    companies. Ms. Moore noted the City current limits building permit fee payments made by a credit
    card to $4,000, so this proposal would increase that limit.

  A resolution authorizing the execution of an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the City, Salt
  Lake County, Layton City, and Salt Lake City for administering and managing certain law enforcement
  software services:
    Chief Burnett said with Council approval the MPD (Murray Police Department) would be able to utilize
    SLC (Salt Lake County), DA (District Attorney) computer software. The DA approached Murray to
    participate with the County in using their program that is helpful for conducting investigations.

    Chief Burnett explained how the program allows only authorized and trained MPD officers to collect
    electronic types of evidence, track cell phone movements, sort through social media platforms, and
    search other type of accounts using specific key words. A court ordered search warrant is required to
    access the system. Previously, Murray officers used equipment located at the DA office, but now a
    terminal would be located at the Murray police station. He said the program is worth having as it
    helps resolve difficult investigations more quickly.

    The annual cost to participate is $3,900. The Council would consider the resolution in the council
    meeting.

  A resolution authorizing the execution of an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the Board of
  Education of GSD (Granite School District) and Murray City, relating to a School Resource Officer
  provided by the City to the District:
    Chief Burnett explained this resolution is to enter into an agreement with GSD for a resource officer
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
December 6, 2022                                   DRAFT                                              Page 4




    at Cottonwood High School. For the past 20 years the City has provided their resource officer for a
    cost of $12,000 per year. The new proposal increases that cost to $45,000 per year.

    Ms. Dominguez asked what Murray School District pays the City for resource officers. Chief Burnett
    replied $25,000 per year for three resource officers. He explained the cost increase was happening
    throughout the Salt Lake Valley so the charge to Granite School District was more in line with what
    most school districts pay

    Mr. Hill commented about the cost differences. He said years ago a rate study was conducted to
    compare costs for resource officers with how much in turn the Murray School District does not charge
    Murray City for using their facilities. For example, the City uses school auditoriums and facilities
    regularly for Murray City Parks and Recreation programs. The City actually benefited more than the
    Murray School District when it came to using Murray School Districts facilities. The lower cost to
    provide resource officers to the Murray School District was a good way to balance the City’s use of
    the Murray School Districts facilities. He said most municipalities no longer provided resource officers
    to local schools for various reasons, but Murray would continue the provision due to the good working
    relationship between the two entities.

    Mayor Hales said with a shared swimming pool and gymnasium at the Park Center and use of other
    facilities like school auditoriums and ball fields, the City is very intertwined with the Murray School
    District. Ms. Turner agreed Granite School District is more independent. Chief Burnett said Granite
    School District was willing to work with Murray City regarding the cost for a resource officer at
    Cottonwood High School.

  Amendments to the MCCD (Murray City Center District) ordinance:
   Mr. Hall gave an overview about the progression of the proposed MCCD Zone amendments that
   resulted from the August workshop.

    He displayed graphics to point out all areas within the MCCD Zone, reviewed height adjustments,
    architecture, design standards, parking, landscaping, and open spaces that would be impacted as a
    result of change requests made by the Council. To be sure everyone was on the same page, Mr. Hall
    said that currently in the MCCD Zone:
      • Buildings shall not exceed ten stories in height or 135 feet, whichever is less.
      • The height of a structure located adjacent to a residential zoning district may not exceed 50 feet
           within 60 feet of a residential zoning district.
      • Properties located north of Court Avenue that are adjacent to Center Street, buildings shall not
           exceed 35 feet.)
      • Properties north of 4800 South at Block One are subject to a limit of 50 feet.
      • For new buildings located west of State Street and south of 4800 South, a minimum height of
           40 feet or four stories, whichever is less, is required.

    Mr. Hrechkosy asked at what height level do developers use steel in constructing tall buildings. Mr.
    Hall replied anything five-stories and over is type-one construction which is steel and concrete. Five
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
December 6, 2022                                   DRAFT                                               Page 5




    stories and up cannot be stick framing.

    Mr. Hill commented that the building on Vine Street is five-story stick construction over two-stories
    of steel and concrete, that is used for parking, which technically makes the building seven-stories high.
    Mr. Hall explained stick construction on top of concrete and steel is now called “five-over-twos.” He
    said Murray is not unique in requiring ground floor commercial or structured parking in a mixed-use
    zone.

    Ms. Turner confirmed that currently a 10-story building could be constructed in the MCCD. Mr. Hall
    said yes except on properties adjacent to residential neighborhoods. Ms. Turner tried to recall why
    10-stories was ever allowed. Mr. Hall said at one time the MCCD Zone was a very aggressive plan with
    no height or density limits.

    Ms. Turner called for a five-minute break.

    Further discussion ensued about what Mr. Hall gained from the previous MCCD workshop and other
    related Committee of the Whole meetings. For Block-One he proposed:
      • Everything in the MCCD north of Vine Street and 300 feet on each side of the right of way of
          State Street near Poplar and Brown Street would be called the Block One Overlay.
      • Height adjustments included 10-foot step backs that are limited to three-stories.
      • Step backs could be 20 feet and not 10, depending on how many stories developers want to
          add.
      • From Center Street to Hanauer Street architectural standards would be required to create a
          traditional Murray architectural look.
      • Story limits would drop from 10 stories to seven stories.

    Ms. Dominguez recalled from the past workshop that Council Members agreed to a three-story limit
    at Block One down to Hanauer Street and structures behind Hanauer Street could be slightly taller.
    Mr. Hall said he would make that adjustment. She also recalled that from Center Street to Box Elder,
    and on the east side of State Street Council Members agreed that only six-story projects would be
    allowed, and they never agreed to 10-stories. Ms. Turner confirmed.

    Mr. Hrechkosy asked if Mr. Hall was proposing to reduce the building height in the MCCD from 10-
    stories to seven-stories. Mr. Hall said he proposed seven-stories because it was the way of the
    industry.

    Ms. Turner asked why not limit construction to six-stories. Mr. Hall said only for the reason that Mr.
    Yost articulated, which was that lower height restrictions cause projects to become more sprawled
    out. State Legislation has forced developers and cities into developing higher density projects even
    taller than a five-over-two building. Since the current code in the MCCD is 80 units per acre, a lower
    height restriction would increase the footplate of a building. The zoning code is the only thing that
    keeps a developer from constructing even taller buildings. Ms. Turner asked about changing the
    MCCD zoning code to reduce the density. Mr. Hall said that was possible, which was the only way to
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
December 6, 2022                                   DRAFT                                               Page 6




    lessen density in the MCCD.

    Ms. Dominguez clarified from the August discussion that Council Members favored density near
    surrounding transit areas only. Ms. Turner said that is where density made sense, that was all the City
    needed to do, and density should be less in the MCCD zone. Mr. Hall asked should density in the
    MCCD be less than it is at Fireclay. Mr. Hrechkosy asked what was the density standard at Fireclay.
    Mr. Hall said all of Fireclay is 70 units per acre.

    Mr. Hall discussed parking standard concerns. He said the way developers handle a higher parking
    requirement is to eliminate two-bedroom units from a project, allowing them to provide only one-
    bedrooms and studios. Mr. Hrechkosy thought this was not ideal for building a family in Murray. Ms.
    Dominguez agreed.

    Ms. Turner preferred seeing more projects with mixed types of housing and asked how that could be
    implemented. Mr. Hall said townhomes, duplexes and triplexes are being constructed in Murray but
    the reason residential developments like that are not seen now is because the City no longer has
    vacant parcels large enough to create new subdivisions.

    Mr. Hall reviewed his notes again from the August workshop and clarified that Council Members did
    prefer a six-story height limit in the MCCD. He said if the Council were to restrict the height to 300
    feet for MCCD properties further away from State Street he had no objections. Although he still
    suggested seven-stories, he respected the Council’s decision of six.

    Visual concepts were shown to explain how step-backs of various distances would appear along State
    Street. Ms. Turner favored a three-story rendering that would front State Street and stressed that
    high density is not what Murray citizens want to see at Block One. There was brief discussion about
    green space areas, open public gathering areas, and landscaping that would not create more heat.

    Ms. Dominguez led a discussion about whether the new city hall building could be viewed from State
    Street. Mr. Hall said they could require buildings fronting State Street be limited to three-stories with
    a 20-foot step-back. He said he would change the height limit to six-stories. Mr. Hrechkosy thought
    -there was value in showing that the Council did listen to the Block One survey results, so height would
    be reduced.

Adjournment: 5:35 p.m.
                                                                 Pattie Johnson
                                                                 Council Office Administrator III
    CIT   CO   ·. C I




Discussion
   Items
    CIT   CO   ·. C I




Discussion
 Item #1
                                    ŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝůĂŶĚ
        f\11UDJ
                                    ĚŵŝŶŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶ
                                   /ŶƚĞƌůŽĐĂůŽĂƌĚƐĂŶĚŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ
                                   ZĞƉŽƌƚƐ
     MURRAY
                                    ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞŽĨƚŚĞtŚŽůĞ
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗January 10, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Reports from Murray City representatives who serve on
Jennifer Kennedy         interlocal boards, committees and commissions.
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  /ŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶĂůŽŶůǇ͘
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         EŽŶĞ
Ɛ>ŝƐƚĞĚ

                    Budget Impact
                         Eͬ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for           Biannual reports from City representatives who serve on
Presentation                   Interlocal Boards and Commissions (5 minutes each)

35 Minutes                  a. Utah Infrastructure Agency (UIA) - Brenda Moore
Is This Time                b. Valley Emergency Communications Center, Metro Fire and
                                Utah Telecommunications Open Infrastructure Agency
Sensitive                       (UTOPIA) - Doug Hill (15 minutes)
No                          c. Council of Governments (COG) and Central Valley Water -
                                Mayor Hales (10 minutes)
Mayor’s Approval            d. Jordan River Commission - Bruce Holyoak



Date
December 20, 2022
    M




Discussion
 Item #2
                                   DƵƌƌĂǇŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝů
       f\11
          UDJ
                                   Human Resources Department
                                   Report
     MURRAY
                                   Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                   DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗January 10, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Monthly Department Report
Jennifer Kennedy
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Information only.
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
Robyn Colton

                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for
Presentation              Human Resources will provide an update on their department.

30 Minutes

Is This Time
Sensitive
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
December 20, 2022
    CIT   CO   ·. C I




Discussion
 Item #3
                                    Murray City Fire
       flfl
          II D :I
                                    Department
                                    SHSP HAZMAT Training Grant
     MURRAY
                                    Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                    Meeting Date: January 10, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Allow for the signing of the SHSP MOU that allows us to receive
Joey Mittelman           SHSP money for backfill during training.
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Approval to enter into the MOU and FEMA grant requirements
801-264-2775             to maintain our HAZMAT response.
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         MOU
Joey Mittelman

                    Budget Impact
                         The OT is reimbursed through the SHSP grant if we sign the
                         MOU. The cost to the city then is budget neutral.

                    Description of this tem
Required Time for        Murray City Fire Department is a part of the Salt Lake Valley
Presentation             HAZMAT response team. This allows for each city to share their
                         specialty with their surrounding cities. This allows Murray to save
10 Minutes               money on many other areas within HAZMAT. Murray serves as
Is This Time             the water way experts for controlling spills within our
                         waterways. Murray City Fire Department has Booms that are
Sensitive                deployed when needed and prevent further damage down
No                       stream. The training our Firefighters complete each year can be
                         reimbursed if we complete this grant.
Mayor’s Approval



Date
December 13, 2022
                              RESOLUTION NO. R23-__



        A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF A MEMORANDUM OF
        UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY AND MURRAY CITY
        RELATING TO REIMBURSEMENT OF OVERTIME OR BACKFILL COSTS
        INCURRED BY MURRAY CITY FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL TO MAINTAIN
        CAPABILITY TO RESPOND TO HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND OTHER SERIOUS
        INCIDENTS.

       WHEREAS, Title 11, Chapter 13, of the Utah Code provides that two or more
public agencies may, by agreement, jointly exercise any power common to the
contracting parties for joint undertakings and services; and

      WHEREAS, the City and Unified Fire Authority (“UFA”) are “public agencies” as
contemplated in section11-13-101 of the Utah Code, et seq. – Interlocal Cooperation
Agreement Act; and

       WHEREAS, State Homeland Security Program (SHSP) is part of the Homeland
Security Grants Program; and

        WHEREAS, the Unified Fire Authority (the “UFA”) is the sub-recipient of grant
funds from the SHSP that have been made available to support continued training and
skills development and effective response in the event of an incident involving hazardous
materials (“HM”), chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear or high yield explosives
(“CBRNE”); and

      WHEREAS, grant funding is authorized for overtime and backfill costs for
emergency preparedness and response personnel attending FEMA-sponsored and
approved training classes; and

           WHEREAS, City has qualified personnel that currently attend FEMA-
approved training for HM and CBRNE incidents and for whom overtime backfill costs are
borne by the City; and

             WHEREAS, City wants to seek reimbursement from the available grant
funds; and

       WHEREAS, the Parties desire to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding
(“MOU”) to facilitate achievement of the goals and objectives of the grant funds by
setting forth the Parties’ responsibilities.

         NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council
that:
       1.      It does hereby approve the execution of a Memorandum of Understanding
between Unified Fire Authority and Murray City in substantially the form attached as
Exhibit “A” to facilitate the achievement of the goals and objectives of the grant funds.

       2.    The City’s participation in the grant funds program is in the best interest of
the City.

      3.    Mayor Brett A. Hales is hereby authorized to execute the Memorandum of
Understanding on behalf of the City and to act in accordance with its terms.

       DATED this      day of     , 2023.


                                         MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL


                                         ________________________________
                                                     , Council Chair



ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
         Attachment

(Memorandum of Understanding)
       SHSP HAZMAT TRAINING PROGRAM GRANT MEMORANDUM OF
                         UNDERSTANDING

 This Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) between Unified Fire Authority (“UFA” or
 “Managing Organization”) an interlocal entity and a public subdivision of the State of Utah
 and                         _______________ (“Participating Agency”), a ____________of
 the State of Utah (individually a “Party” and collectively the “Parties”), is entered effective
 as of its execution by the Parties

I.       Purpose

 The purpose of this MOU is to afford public safety agencies the opportunity to commit qualified,
 trained personnel to continued training and skills development to better prepare and respond to
 incidents involving hazardous materials (HM) incidents and/or chemical, biological,
 radiological, nuclear, explosive (CBRNE) at the agency level. Region 2 has secured funds that
 provide a means to backfill qualified personnel selected to attend approved courses as identified
 herein. The MOU will delineate responsibilities and procedures for the administration and
 management of the SHSP Region 2 HM backfill funds ($30,000). By reimbursing for
 backfill, this SHSP funding will focus on enhancing preparedness and resilience for
 communities by directly funding activities to enhance participants’ preparedness, specifically
 for hazardous materials/CBRNE incidents.

 In conjunction with the SLVHAC three-year plan to host national-level training, this funding
 for backfill places emphasis on keeping parity with industry practice, knowledge, skills, and
 abilities as well as best practices and common understanding in preparing for these types of
 incidents between jurisdictions/agencies. Courses may occur in Utah or elsewhere and must
 be approved by the SLVHAC in advance in order to qualify for potential funding pursuant to
 this MOU. Training plans/courses will utilize FEMA training courses offered through the
 Emergency Management Institute, the Center for Domestic Preparedness, the National
 Domestic Preparedness Consortium, and other partners.

 A sample listing of courses is provided in Appendix A.


II.      Scope

The provisions of this MOU will apply to Unified Fire Authority’s management of the SHSP HM
backfill funds and the reimbursement of backfill costs incurred by participating agencies that
maintain capability and a responsibility to respond to hazardous materials incidents and/or
CBRNE at the agency level.

III.    Definitions

         A. SLCoEM- Salt Lake County, Utah Emergency Management.

         B. Grant – SHSP funds to reimburse qualified agencies for backfill expenses so that
            trained personnel may attend select HM/CBRNE courses. These funds typically
                                             1
          have a 36-month period of performance and multiple SHSP grants may be in
          effect at any given time.

       C. Participating agency – Public safety or health agency that maintains a HM/CBRNE
          response capability and supports personnel to attend courses approved and
          planned/scheduled through the SLVHAC. Agencies may include police, fire, health
          care provider, health dept personnel, etc. that are identified as having responsibility
          along or within the HM/CBRNE response continuum.

       D. Managing Organization –UFA as a sub-recipient of the Grant, which provides
          administrative and financial oversight in support of the program.

       E. SHSP – State Homeland Security Program. SHSP is part of the Homeland
          Security Grants Program (HSGP) and supports the implementation of risk-driven,
          capabilities-based State Homeland Security Strategies to address capability
          targets set in Urban Area, State, and Regional Threat and Hazard Identification
          and Risk Assessments (THIRAs).

       F. SLVHAC – The Salt Lake Valley Hazmat Alliance Committee.


IV.   Responsibilities

      A. The Parties agree to cooperate with each other to facilitate achievement of the goals
         and objectives of the Grant as fully and completely as possible within the period of
         performance for each of the SHSP grants awarded to provide for reimbursement of
         backfill expenses related to qualified personnel attending hazmat-related classes.
         This MOU and its purpose are subject to the availability of SHSP funds.

      B. The Parties agree and recognize that the Managing Organization is the Grant sub-
         recipient from the State of Utah and has primary responsibility for management of
         Grant funds and compliance with Grant requirements. For the purposes of the
         Grant, the Managing Organization provides oversight and represents that it will
         manage the Grant funds for the benefit of Region 2 preparedness. The Managing
         Organization will coordinate reimbursement of qualified backfill expenses in
         concert with the SLVHAC. As part of the process, the SLVHAC will approve the
         participation of all qualified personnel assigned to such opportunities. SLVHAC
         will notify Region 2 Participating Agencies of available training in a reasonably
         advanced time to allow for planning and selection of personnel.

      C. Participating Agency agrees to support the program by identifying and
         recommending qualified personnel for training as organized and arranged by
         SLVHAC. Participating Agency agrees to bear the cost of its personnel
         participating in such opportunities during their normal working hours and only seek
         reimbursement of those costs related to the backfill for personnel participating in
         such opportunities. Agencies shall also recommend personnel that commit to
         course completion.       Partial course completion will not be eligible for
                                            2
         reimbursement.



     D. SLVHAC will manage the three-year course schedule. Courses are not intended
        to be initial training or beginner level offerings. Courses will be a complement to
        the knowledge, skills, and capabilities of public safety agency hazmat response in
        Region 2. Courses will vary in duration from one to multiple days with some being
        primarily didactic and others involving hands-on evolutions. Additionally, courses
        may be online, in-person, or a hybrid delivery. SLVHAC will also provide a level
        of verification that the course announcements are sent through various means of
        media/contacts to ensure that Region 2 public safety agencies are aware of such
        offerings. SLVHAC will also verify that Participating Agencies maintain a
        HM/CBRNE response capability and that recommended personnel are part of the
        agency HM/CBRNE program.

     E. For disciplinary purposes, authority is limited to temporary suspension or exclusion
        of personnel from participation in such activities. In all other instances where
        disciplinary action may be necessary, Managing Organization or SLVHAC will
        report the pertinent circumstances to Participating Agency for adjudication as
        appropriate in accordance with the Participating Agency’s established rules and
        regulations. While participating in Grant-funded activities conducted by the
        Managing Organization and SLVHAC, participants will be subject to, observe, and
        comply with all lawful orders and directions of the authorized representatives of
        Managing Organization. Managing Organization retains the right to suspend or
        exclude any participant from participation in Grant-funded activities for cause
        including failure to abide by the provisions of this MOU.

     F. Nothing in this MOU is intended to, nor does it, affect the employer-employee
        relationship between Participating Agency and its employees who are participants
        in these courses. Participating Agency will at all times continue to be fully
        responsible for all of its employment obligations to its employees participating in
        Grant-funded activities, including the compensation, benefits, and worker’s
        compensation protection that the Participating Agency provides.


V.   Qualification for Participation

     A. A Participating Agency seeking to participate in the SHSP Program Grant shall be
        expected to meet requirements in one of the following categories:
            i.    Hazardous Materials Response Teams that are qualified to the equivalent
                  of a FEMA Type 3 Team or higher. Qualifications for FEMA Team
                  types are found in the FEMA Resource Typing Library Tool (RTLT)
                  under “Hazardous Materials Response Team.”
           ii.    An Agency with Hazardous Materials Teams not currently qualified to
                  the level of a FEMA Type 3 Team may still participate in the grant
                  program under the following conditions:

                                         3
                        a. The Agency can adequately demonstrate ongoing progress
                            toward the development of response capabilities as a Type 3
                            Team or higher.
                        b. The Agency has a current, documented MOU with another
                            agency that provides service as a Hazardous Materials
                            Response Team qualified to the level of a FEMA Type 3 Team
                            or higher.
            iii.   Service providers in Hazardous Materials allied fields. Examples include
                   Law Enforcement, Clinical Healthcare, or other State or Local Agency
                   personnel who will respond and work closely with Hazardous Materials
                   Response Teams in the administration of their duties.

VI.   Reimbursement

      A. Personnel (Backfill) Costs. Managing Organization will reimburse Participating
         Agency for approved backfill costs using Grant funds upon Participating Agency
         submitting to Managing Organization a written request for reimbursement listing
         the costs with specificity for each employee. Pre-approval of backfill approval
         may be requested through the Managing Organization by the Participating
         Agency. Reimbursement for costs other than backfill are not authorized by
         this MOU.

      B. Funding. Reimbursement of costs incurred pursuant to this MOU is dependent
         upon funding being sufficient and available from the Grant. Managing
         Organization will use its best efforts to coordinate all activities with SLVHAC
         (and Participating Agencies by extension) to ensure that funding is available prior
         to the costs being incurred. However, Participating Agency assumes the risk of it
         incurring costs that exceed the total funding available under the Grant during its
         participation. If multiple Participating Agencies seek reimbursement for a total
         amount that exceeds the Grant, Managing Organization will pay such
         reimbursements on a pro rata basis based on the funding available. The
         performance period for these funds will expire March 1, 2024.

      C. Limitations. Participating Agency’s reimbursement amount is capped at $3,500
         per year to provide opportunity to all other eligible agencies in Region 2.
         SLVHAC may conduct an annual review of course planning, expenditures against
         the grant, and agency participation among those agencies eligible for
         reimbursement within the region. In the interest of ensuring fund utilization,
         limitations/caps will be reset each year after the annual review.

      D. Reimbursement Process. Participating Agency will first encumber backfill
         expenses associated with approved personnel that attend trainings. Participating
         Agency will submit reimbursement requests to the Managing Organization within
         45 days of course completion. Reimbursement requests from Participant Agency
         to Management Organization must include: 1) a copy of the class roster as
         verification of attendance, 2) payroll reports/verification of backfill expenses, and
         3) a completed and signed W-9 form. Managing Organization will review the

                                          4
             request and provide reimbursement within 60 days of submission unless there is
             a discrepancy or question as to the eligibility of all or a portion of the request. In
             the event of such a discrepancy or question, the two organizations will meet and
             confer to reasonably resolve the issue. SLVHAC may be party to the conference
             as needed. The reimbursement request shall be emailed to
             vgreensides@unifiedfire.org

VII.     Governmental Immunity

 Managing Organization is a governmental entity as set forth in the Governmental Immunity
 Act of Utah, Title 63G, Chapter 7, Utah Code Annotated (the “Immunity Act”). Managing
 Organization does not waive any defenses otherwise available under the Immunity Act (or
 successor provision), nor does it waive any limits of liability provided by the Immunity Act
 which immunity and damage caps are expressly preserved and retained. All obligations
 imposed upon the Parties or their employees by virtue of the execution of this MOU are
 considered within their current scope of employment with each Party.

VIII.    Indemnification

 Subject to the terms of the Immunity Act, and as provided herein, it is mutually agreed that
 the Parties are each responsible for their own negligent, reckless, or intentional acts or
 omissions which are committed by them or their agents, officials or employees.
 Furthermore, each Party agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold each other harmless from any
 and all damages or claims for damages occurring to persons or property as a result of the
 negligent, reckless, or intentional acts or omissions of its own officers, employees, and
 agents involved in participating in the program under the terms of this MOU. This duty to
 indemnify, defend, and hold each other harmless includes costs or expenses in law or equity,
 including attorney’s fees. The terms of this paragraph will survive the termination of this
 MOU.


IX.     General Provisions

        A. Effective Date. This MOU will be effective as of __________, 2022 when it has
           been duly and regularly authorized and executed by the Parties.

        B. Authority. This MOU is made under the authority of Utah law in furtherance of
           the purposes of the SHSP Region 2 HM backfill program. The Parties represent
           that this MOU is not an Interlocal Agreement entered into pursuant to the Utah
           Interlocal Cooperation Act, as no joint action is being undertaken, and is instead an
           MOU to set forth the terms and conditions for Participating Agency’s participation
           in a funded grant program and reimbursement of costs incurred thereby.

        C. Termination. The MOU will continue in effect unless terminated by either Party
           or due to discontinued funding through SHSP. Participating Agency may terminate
           this MOU with 30 days written notice to the Managing Organization and SLVHAC.
           Managing Organization may terminate this MOU with 30 days written notice to
           Participating Agency but may continue to process reimbursement requests
                                             5
   submitted prior to the date of termination until completed.

D. Miscellaneous Provisions.

    (i) The obligations of the Participating Agency set forth in this MOU are non-
        delegable and may not be assigned to or assumed by any other person without
        the prior written consent of Managing Organization.

    (ii) Except and to the extent federal law controls, this MOU will be construed and
         enforced, as between the Parties, according to the laws of the State of Utah.

    (iii) No Party will engage in any conduct or activity in the performance of this
          MOU or participation in the SHSP Region 2 HM backfill program that
          constitutes a conflict of interest under applicable federal, state, or local law,
          rules, and regulations.

   (iv) Each Party will at all times observe and comply with all applicable federal,
        state, and local laws, rules, and regulations.

    (v) Should any provision of this MOU be determined to be invalid or
        unenforceable under applicable law, the provision shall, to the extent
        required, be severed from the remainder of the MOU which shall continue in
        full force and effect.

   (vi) This MOU is made for the sole and exclusive benefit of the named Parties
        and their lawful successors in interest, and no other person or entity is
        intended to, nor shall such other person or entity acquire or be entitled to
        receive any rights or benefits as a third-party beneficiary of this MOU.

   (vii) Each person executing this MOU represents that they are lawfully authorized
         to sign the MOU on behalf of the respective Party, and, to the person's best
         knowledge and belief, the MOU is a binding and enforceable obligation of
         the Party on whose behalf it is executed.

   (viii) This MOU, including the Appendices and attachments, if any, constitutes the
          entire MOU between the parties and it supersedes any prior MOUs on this
          matter.




                                      6
            Executed on behalf of the parties effective as of the date provided for herein.



PARTICIPATING AGENCY
  _____________________________________

By:___________________________________
Its:__________________________________



MANAGING ORGANIZATION
SALT LAKE COUNTY EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT




_____________________________________
Division Chief Clint Mecham
Emergency Manager




APPROVED AS TO FORM


Date _______________________________
Brian F. Roberts
Chief Legal Officer




                                                7
                                                   Appendix A


List of courses that have been adopted by the SLVHAC and are subject to the terms of the SHSP Region 2 HM
backfill funds MOU. Note that these courses have been selected for their applicable subject matter as it applies
to the trained Hazardous Materials Technician and/or CBRNE responder and all others that would reasonably
be expected to have responsibility within the response continuum.

Note that the intent is to have these classes delivered in state and to seek additional courses to provide refresher
training and to introduce new knowledge, skills and abilities to enhance the overall Region 2 response
capability to incidents involving hazardous materials. Courses listed here are suggested. Course providers and
availability may change in which case a suitable or similar alternative course offering(s) should be pursued.

 Year one, session 1;
 Homemade Explosives: Awareness, Recognition, and Response (HME)
    The HME course is designed for all levels of first responders who may encounter or respond to a
    homemade explosives incident. This course presents information on the safe response to homemade
    explosive pre-detonation and post-detonation incidents. Delivery Methods: Mobile, 8 hrs. Provided
    through EMRTC program at New Mexico Tech University mobile classes free of charge:

 Medical Preparedness and Response to Bombing Incidents (MPRBI)
    The MPRBI course prepares first responders involved in the medical response to bombing incidents
    with the skills and knowledge necessary to effectively respond to the unique injuries of a bombing
    incident while considering existing hazards related to such an event. Delivery Methods: Mobile, 16
    hrs. Provided through EMRTC program at New Mexico Tech University mobile classes free of charge:

 Year one, session 2
 Highway Emergency Response Specialist (HERS), PER-291
     This course focuses on specific fundamentals associated with emergency response to a highway
     incident involving hazardous materials to include flammable/combustible liquids. Participants are
     provided with detailed technical information on all common US D.O.T. types of cargo tanks,
     intermodal and portable tanks, freight vans, their design and construction, as well as non-bulk
     packaging and compressed gas cylinders. Participants will review technical mitigation techniques,
     transfer procedures, grounding and bonding, and safety techniques for highway transportation
     incidents. Delivery Method: Hybrid, 20 hrs online / 24 hrs in-person. Provided through SERTC
     program in Pueblo, CO. This is a hybrid class (online and in-person at campus in CO) free of charge.

 Year two, session 1
 Population Monitoring at Community Reception Centers, PER 332
     This course trains emergency responders and non-uniformed support personnel to operate monitoring
     stations within the Community Reception Center (CRC), or similar reception centers, to perform
     population monitoring and contamination reduction measures after a radiological or nuclear incident.
     Examples of incidents that would initiate the establishment of a CRC include a nuclear detonation such

                             8
    as an improvised nuclear device (IND), radiological dispersal device (RDD), an attack on a nuclear
    power plant (NPP) or other incidents that expose the general population to radioactive contamination.
    Delivery Methods: Mobile, 8 hrs. Provided through CTOS Nevada National Security Site free of
    charge.

Operations Level Response to Radiological/Nuclear WMD, PER 348
    This course is designed for response mission operations and personnel who have little or no training in
    radiological/nuclear emergency WMD response. This course provides First Responders with
    fundamental knowledge regarding mission spaces related to radiological/nuclear threats. Delivery
    Methods: Mobile, 8 hrs. Provided through CTOS Nevada National Security Site free of charge.

Year two, session 2
Tactical Operations for CBRNE Incidents, PER 221
    The goal of this course is to provide tactical team personnel and emergency responders with the
    knowledge, skills, and abilities to safely and effectively respond to chemical, biological, radiological,
    nuclear, and explosive (CBRNE) incidents. Through a combination of classroom sessions and
    comprehensive practical exercises, participants gain knowledge and experience in decontamination
    procedures; selection and use of PPE; tactical operations involving an IED; identification and
    characteristics of chemical and biological agents; identification and characteristics of radiological
    isotopes; use of detection equipment; and planning and performing tactical operations in a CBRNE
    environment. Delivery Methods: Mobile, 24 hrs. Provided through Louisiana State University
    NCBRT/Academy of Counter-Terrorism Education free of charge.

Year three, session 1
Emergency Response to Domestic Biological Incidents, PER-220
   This course is designed to help participants safely and effectively respond to a biological incident by
   using an integrated approach. The course provides detailed information about various biological agents
   and possible methods of dissemination-whether naturally occurring or intentional. Participants will
   identify appropriate assessment and response actions and will review personal protection, containment
   measures, and tools that may be accessed during a biological incident. Delivery Methods: Mobile, 16
   hrs. Provided through Louisiana State University NCBRT/Academy of Counter-Terrorism Education
   free of charge.

Year three, session 2
Critical Decision Making for Complex Coordinated Attacks, PER 335
     This course addresses the vulnerability of any community to a public safety situation, such as an active
     shooter at a shopping mall; a train derailment with hazardous chemicals; a bombing incident at a
     commercial district; a plane crash; or chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, or explosive attack.
     These attacks, known as complex coordinated attacks, involve multiple threats that often exceed
     conventional response tactics. These attacks require a joint response involving members from varying
     disciplines and jurisdictions. The course will enhance the response capabilities of participants by
     providing them with the knowledge and tools to enable effective response.


                           9
This course is taught through a combination of classroom instruction and practical exercises. Among the
    topics covered during the classroom instruction are characteristics of a complex coordinated attack,
    public safety response considerations, command operations and strategies, and critical information
    about situational domain awareness. Several notable case studies are also presented to provide real-life
    examples of the characteristics of a complex coordinated attack. Featured practical exercises allow
    participants to interact with responders from other disciplines to effectively address a variety of
    complex coordinated attack scenarios. Participants will work together to identify critical considerations
    and command strategies. Further, these exercises encourage collaborative decision-making and rapid
    strategizing. Delivery Methods: Mobile, 16 hrs. Provided through Louisiana State University
    NCBRT/Academy of Counter-Terrorism Education free of charge.

Year three, session 3
Medical Preparedness and Response for Bombing Incidents, MGT 348
   This course is designed for personnel from any professional background who may become part of a
   community response to a bombing event. This interactive, instructor-facilitated program employs case
   studies and research-based information designed to enhance medical preparedness for and response to
   blast effects. Breakout sessions address considerations and concerns specific both to medical
   responders and emergency planners. Students are encouraged to ask questions and to create a to-do list
   of items they don’t have the answers to, so they have a list of tasks to address when they return to their
   jurisdiction. Delivery Methods: In-person, 16 hrs. Provided through TEEX free of charge.




                          10
    CIT   CO   ·. C I




Discussion
 Item #4
                                    Mayor's Office

       flfl II D :1
                                   Interlocal Agreement with Murray
                                   School District for Music Specialist
     MURRAY
                                   Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                    Meeting Date: January 10, 2023


Department            Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Consider Agreement to fund $21,577.46 to provide matching
Mayor Brett Hales        funds for Murray School District music specialist.
                      Action Requested
Phone #                  Approve Agreement after which funds will need to be
801-264-2600             appropriated through a budget opening.
                      Attachments
Presenters
                         Interlocal Agreement
Doug Hill

                      Budget Impact
                         $21,577.46 from the General Fund


                      Description of this tem
Required Time for        For many years, the City and Murray School District have jointly
Presentation             funded a music specialist to provide music education and
                         instruction in the District. The FY2023 budget addendum (page
5 Minutes                24) stated the council's intent to appropriate these funds.
Is This Time             However, the funds were not included in the budget. Therefore,
                         if the Agreement is approved, funds will need to be appropriated
Sensitive                through a budget opening.
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
December 8, 2022
                                   RESOLUTION ---
                                              R23-

       A RESOLUTION APPROVING AN INTERLOCAL COOPERATION
       AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE CITY AND MURRAY CITY SCHOOL
       DISTRICT (“DISTRICT”) RELATING TO MUSIC EDUCATION AND
       INSTRUCTION.

       WHEREAS, Title 11, Chapter 13, of the Utah Code provides that two or more
public agencies may enter into an agreement with one another for joint or cooperative
actions; and

      WHEREAS, the City and the District are “public agencies” as contemplated in
Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-101, et. seq., Interlocal Cooperation Act; and

      WHEREAS, the City and the District have beneficially entered into cooperative
agreements for various projects; and

      WHEREAS, the City and the District have developed a long-term relationship of
cooperation and sharing of resources to do what is in the best interest of the
community; and

        WHEREAS, the City wants to encourage music education and instruction in the
District; and

        WHEREAS the City, subject to appropriation of funds by the City Council, wants
to allocate up to Twenty-One Thousand Five Hundred and Seventy-Seven Dollars and
46/100 Cents ($21,577.46) to provide the District with assistance in hiring and providing
music specialists and a district music trainer, subject to certain terms and conditions;
and

      WHEREAS, the Parties want to specify, in an Agreement, their respective
responsibilities with regard to the funds provided by the City to the District for music
education and instruction.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE Murray City Municipal Council
as follows:

       1.     It hereby approves the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement, in substantially
              the form attached hereto.

       2.     The Interlocal Cooperation Agreement is in the best interest of the City.

       3.     Mayor Brett A. Hales is hereby authorized to execute the Agreement on
              behalf of the City and act in accordance with its terms.

PASSED AND APPROVED this ___ day of ____________, 2023.
                              MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                              _______________________________
                                          , Chair

ATTEST:



_______________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
  Murray City Annual Budget                                                                 Fiscal Year 2022/2023

  BUDGET ADDENDUM

Public hearings are required before the City waive fees, donates services, or provide funds/property to non-profit
entities. To avoid the need for separate hearings throughout the year, the Mayor's budget includes the following
annual or one-time requests:

    1. Volunteers of America Donate funds for operation expenses at the Volunteers of America Center for Women
       and Children in Murray. Value: $10,000

    2.   Murray Education Foundation Waive golf cart rental fees for annual tournament at Murray Parkway Golf
         Course . Value: $1,400

    3. Utah Community Action Reduce fees for Murray City utilities for low income residents based on HEAT
       qualifications. Value : $10,000

   4. American Legion Waive park rental fees for Easter Egg Hunt. Value : $225

    5. Utah Farm Bureau Farmers Market Waive park rental fees for Farmers Market. Value: $2,000

    6. Boys and Girls Club of Greater Salt Lake Donate funds for operation expenses at the Murray Boys and Girls
       Club. Value: $100,000

    7.   Miss Murray Pageant Donate funds for scholarships and Murray City float and parade expenses. Value: $6,200

    8.   Murray Area Chamber of Commerce Donate funds for operations and the youth chamber. Value : $24,600

    9.   Murray Area Chamber of Commerce Waive golf cart rental fees for annual tournament at Murray Parkway
         Golf Course. Value: $1,400

    10. Economic Development Corporation of Utah Donate funds for operations. Value: $7,500

    11. Murray Symphony Orchestra Donate funds for operations. Value: $2,500

    12. Murray Concert Band Donate funds for operations. Value: $2,500

    13. Murray School District Donate matching funds for the music specialist position . Value : Up to $40,000

    14. Murray School District Provide water education through the National Energy Foundation and associated
        prizes. Value: $8,350

    15. Murray Exchange Club Waive park rental fees for Haunted Trail. Value : $975

    16. American Red Cross Waive park rental fees for up to 10 blood drives. Value: $1,000

    17. Utah Community Forest Council Provide labor assistance for the annual Utah State Tree Climbing competition.
        Value : Up to $2,000.




         Adopted August 9, 2022                                                                           Page 24
                       INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT

                      BETWEEN MURRAY CITY CORPORATION AND
                         THE MURRAY CITY SCHOOL DISTIRCT

                                 Music Education and Instruction


       This Interlocal Cooperation Agreement (“Agreement”) is made and entered into this ____

day of ________________, 2023, by and between Murray City Corporation, a Utah municipal

corporation (the “City”) and the Murray City School District, a political subdivision of the State

of Utah (the “District”).

                                           RECITALS

   1. The City and the District are “public agencies” authorized by the Utah Interlocal

       Cooperation Act, Title 11, Chapter 13 of the Utah Code, to enter into agreements with

       each other for joint and cooperative action which will enable them to make the most

       efficient use of their powers on a basis of mutual advantage.

   2. The City and the District have developed a long-term relationship of cooperation and

       sharing of resources to do what is in the best interest of the community.

   3. The City wants to encourage music education and instruction in the District.

   4. The City, subject to appropriation by the City Council, wants to allocate up to TWENTY-

       ONE THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY-SEVEN DOLLARS AND

       46/100 CENTS ($21,577.46) to provide the District with assistance in hiring and

       providing Music Specialists and a District Music Trainer, subject to the terms and

       conditions of this Agreement.

   5. The Parties want to outline their respective responsibilities regarding the funds provided

       by the City to the District for such music instruction.
NOW THEREFORE, based on the conditions herein, the Parties agree as follows:

                                     AGREEMENT

1. The City shall allocate up to TWENTY-ONE THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED AND

   SEVENTY-SEVEN DOLLARS AND 46/100 CENTS ($21,577.46) in the 2022-2023

   school year to provide assistance to the District for music education. This assistance is

   intended to help the District hire employees to work as Music Specialists and a District

   Music Trainer. City assistance shall be matched by the District at least 1:1 for verified

   expenses related to Music Specialists. Verified expenses include hourly salary, in-service

   trainings, and supplies.

2. On a monthly basis, the District shall forward to the City documentation of the actual

   expenses incurred by the District related to the Music Specialists, and shall provide a

   written report showing that the conditions set forth in Section 3 of this Agreement have

   been met. The expense documentation and written reports shall be submitted to the City

   by the 15th of each month.

3. Assistance from the City to the District is conditioned upon the following:

       a. Each classroom will receive at least 30 minutes of music instruction each week

           with exceptions provided for holidays and occasional scheduling conflicts;

       b. Music Specialists will receive regular in-service training by a District Music

           Trainer, or receive funding for conference fees to attend at least one music in-

           service training/conference provided by other educational agencies;

       c. Each Music Specialist shall be given a reasonable budget for supplies for his/her

           classroom instructional needs specific to music instruction;
       d. Music Specialists, although not required to have music teaching degrees or

           endorsements, must provide evidence of a reasonable minimum background in

           music instruction;

       e. The financial assistance to be provided by the City shall only be used for expenses

           and items directly related to classroom music instruction provided by the Music

           Specialists; and

       f. Music Specialists will be paid for appropriate preparation time.

4. Should the conditions above not be met to the reasonable satisfaction of the City, the City

   shall have no obligation to provide any financial assistance to the District, regardless of

   expenditures made by the District and regardless of whether the City approved the

   District’s request for assistance prior to the beginning of that year’s school year.

5. The District and the City are governmental entities under the Utah Governmental

   Immunity Act (“Act”). Therefore, consistent with the terms of the Act, the District and

   the City agree that each is responsible and liable for any wrongful or negligent acts which

   it commits or is committed by its agents or employees. Neither the District nor the City

   waives any defenses or limits of liability otherwise available under the Act and all other

   applicable laws and both the District and the City maintain all privileges, immunities and

   other rights granted by the Act and other applicable laws.

6. This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the

   subject matter hereof, and no statements, promises, or inducements made by either Party

   or agents for either Party that are not contained in this written contract shall be binding or

   valid; and this Agreement may not be enlarged, modified, or altered except in writing,

   and signed by the Parties.
7. The Parties mutually agree that funding will be allocated by the Parties as a part of their

   respective annual budgeting processes. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to

   bind the decision of the future legislative bodies of the City.

8. No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement.

9. The District and the City shall not subcontract, assign or transfer any rights or duties

   under this Agreement without prior written consent of the other party.

10. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should any provision herein be

   deemed void, voidable, unenforceable, or invalid, such void, voidable, unenforceable or

   invalid provision shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement.

11. This Agreement shall stay in effect until the parties, or their assignees terminate the

   Agreement. This Agreement may be terminated by either Party for any or no reason

   upon fifteen (15) days written notice of termination. Both Parties agree that the

   terminating Party's election to terminate this Agreement will not be deemed a termination

   for default nor will it entitle the other Party to any rights or remedies provided by law or

   this Agreement for breach of contract by the terminating Party, or any other claim or

   cause of action.

12. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the

   State of Utah.



                                (Signature Page to Follow)
       DATED as of the day and year first written above.



MURRAY CITY CORPORATION                           MURRAY CITY SCHOOL DISTRICT



______________________________                    ________________________________
Brett A. Hales, Mayor                             Jennifer Covington, Superintendent

ATTEST:


______________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder

APPROVED AS TO FORM:



______________________________
G.L. Critchfield, City Attorney

APPROVED AS TO CONTENT:



______________________________
Kim Sorensen, Director, Murray City
Parks and Recreation Department
Discussion
 Item #5
                                      Department/Agency
                                      Finance & Administration
                                      FY 2022-2023 Budget Amendment


                                      Committee of the Whole
Council Action Request
                                      Meeting Date: January 10, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Amend the FY 2022-2023 budget
Brenda Moore
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Discussion
801-264-2513
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Ordinance
Brenda Moore

                    Budget Impact
                         Budget Amendment


                    Description of this Item
Required Time for                     The following items have been included in the
Presentation                              requested budget amendment:
                                      1. General Fund ($95,340 being added to reserves):
15 Minutes                               A. Receipt of a grant from the Justice Assistance
Is This Time                              Grant Program $33,620, to be used for personal
                                          protective gear.
Sensitive                                B. Receipt of a ZAP grant of $100,000 to reserves to
Yes                                       offset costs of FY2023 programming.
                                         C. Receive $20,211 for public safety Mental Health
Mayor’s Approval                          Grant and return to reserves. The FY2023 budget
                                          was increased in anticipation of possibly receiving
                                          a grant, and due to the services being needed
                                          whether the grant was received or not.
Date
December 22, 2022
Continued from Page 1:
   D. Appropriate $7,536 for overtime and related taxes, and $74,000 for additional software due
to the computer incident, funded from reserves.
  E. Appropriate $21,578 for a music specialist cost sharing with Murray City School district,
funded from reserves.
  F. Decrease the Mayor's budget for the DEI advisor $78,243 due to the change from employee to
professional service, return to reserves.

2. Library Fund:
   A. Receipt of a ARPA pass through from the Utah State Library Hot spot grant for $3,168
   B. Receipt of additional State Library ARPA pass through grant for materials of $12.000.
3. CIP Fund (total from reserves $72,922):
   A. Receive and appropriate the TRCC Grant of $3,636,500 for the Murray Theater.
   B. Appropriate funds for a space saver shelving system in the police department in the new city
hall $21,422 funded from reserves. This will be reimbursed if the City Hall budget has funds
remaining.
   C. Appropriate $51,500 for the Hanauer street change to xeriscape, funded from reserves. There
were funds available from the original construction budget of Hanauer street which are also being
used for this project.

4. In the Power fund Increase the budget for purchased power $800,000 funded from reserves.

5. In the Solid Waste fund increase the collection budget by $44,500 due to Ace Disposal CPI
adjustment as allowed in the contract, funded from reserves.

6. In the Retained Risk fund appropriate $250,000 for liability claims, funded from reserves.
                                   ORDINANCE NO.

    AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CITY’S FISCAL YEAR 2022-2023 BUDGET

   On August 9, 2022, the Murray City Municipal Council adopted the City’s budget for
Fiscal Year 2022-2023. It has been proposed that the Fiscal Year 2022-2023 budget be
amended as follows:

      1. In the General Fund appropriate from reserves the following items:

             a. $7,536 for overtime in the IT department;

             b. $74,000 for software in the IT department, and;

             c. $21,578 for cost sharing of a music specialist with Murray School District.

      2. In the General Fund receive and appropriate $33,620 from the Justice
         Assistance Grant program for police equipment.

      3. In the General Fund receive to reserves the following items:

             a. $100,000 from a zoos arts and parks grant received for arts programming;

             b. $20,211 from a public safety mental health grant, and;

             c. $78,243 from the mayor’s salaries and benefits budget due to change in
                DEI advisor status.

      4. In the Library Fund receive and appropriate the following with no financial impact:

             a. $12,000 for the Utah State Department of Libraries ARPA grant for
                materials, and;

             b. $3,168 for the Utah State Library ARPA hotspot grant.

      5. In the Capital Improvement Projects fund receive and appropriate $3,636,500
         Salt Lake County TRCC grant funds for the construction of the Murray Theater.

      6. In the Capital Improvement Projects (CIP) Fund appropriate from reserves the
         following:

             a. $20,329 for a space saver shelving system in the police department at the
                new city hall, and;

             b. $51,500 to change Hanauer street landscaping to xeriscape.
      7. In the Power Fund appropriate $800,000 from reserves for purchased power.

      8. In the Solid Waste Fund appropriate $44,500 from reserves for garbage
         collection fees.

      9. In the Retained Risk Fund appropriate $250,000 from reserves for liability claims.

Section 10-6-128 of the Utah Code states that the budget for the City may be amended by
the Murray City Municipal Council following a duly noticed public hearing. Pursuant to
proper notice, the Murray City Municipal Council held a public hearing on January 17, 2023,
to consider proposed amendments to the Fiscal Year 2022-2023 budget. After considering
public comment, the Murray City Municipal Council wants to amend the Fiscal Year 2022-
2023 budget.

 Section 1. Enactment. The City’s Fiscal Year 2022-2023 budget shall be amended as
follows:
       1. In the General Fund appropriate from reserves the following items:

             a. $7,536 for overtime in the IT department;

             b. $74,000 for software in the IT department, and;

             c. $21,578 for cost sharing of a music specialist with Murray School District.

      2. In the General Fund receive and appropriate $33,620 from the Justice
         Assistance Grant program for police equipment.

      3. In the General Fund receive to reserves the following items:

             a. $100,000 from a zoos arts and parks grant received for arts programming;

             b. $20,211 from a public safety mental health grant, and;

             c. $78,243 from the mayor’s salaries and benefits budget due to change in
                DEI advisor status.

      4. In the Library Fund receive and appropriate the following with no financial impact:

             a. $12,000 for the Utah State Department of Libraries ARPA grant for
                materials, and;

             b. $3,168 for the Utah State Library ARPA hotspot grant.

      5. In the Capital Improvement Projects fund receive and appropriate $3,636,500
         Salt Lake County TRCC grant funds for the construction of the Murray Theater.
     6. In the Capital Improvement Projects (CIP) Fund appropriate from reserves the
        following:

            a. $20,329 for a space saver shelving system in the police department at the
               new city hall, and;

            b. $51,500 to change Hanauer street landscaping to xeriscape.

     7. In the Power Fund appropriate $800,000 from reserves for purchased power.

     8. In the Solid Waste Fund appropriate $44,500 from reserves for garbage
        collection fees.

     9. In the Retained Risk Fund appropriate $250,000 from reserves for liability claims.

     Section 2. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect on first publication.

       PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this ___ day of ___________, 2023.

                                        MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL


                                        _____________________________________
                                        , Chair
ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

     DATED this ____ day of __________, 2023.



                                        _____________________________________
                                        Brett Hales, Mayor
ATTEST:


________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
                           CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

       I hereby certify that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published according
to law on the ___ day of _________, 2023.


                                        ____________________________________
                                        Brooke Smith, City Recorder
Adjournment
          Cl




Council Meeting
  6:30 p.m.
     Call to Order
  Pledge of Allegiance
                             M
                             e 1 · · COU      C L




          Citizen
         Comments
Limited to three minutes, unless otherwise approved by Council
      MUR RAV
      C l TY COU IN C I L




Consent Agenda
                                   Mayor's Office
       flfl
          II D :I
                                   Reappointment of Cami Munk to
                                   the Arts Advisory Board.
      MURRAY
                                   Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                   Meeting Date: January 10, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Re-appointment of board member.
Kim Sorensen
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Consider confirmation of the Mayor's re-appointment of Cami
801-264-2619             Munk to the Arts Advisory Board.
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Resume
Mayor Hales

                    Budget Impact
                         None


                    Description of this tem
Required Time for        Cami Munk will be re-appointed to the Arts Advisory Board from
Presentation             January 2023 - January 2026.



Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
December 20, 2022
                                   Cami M. Munk
                                  Murray, Utah 84107


EMPLOYMENT EXPERIENCE
Salt Lake County Arts & Culture – Communications Manager
Abravanel Hall, Capitol Theatre, Eccles Theater, Mid-Valley Performing Arts Center, Rose
Wagner Performing Arts Center, ArtTix, Salt Lake County Public Art Program
2006 – current
    • Manage, develop and implement strategic communications for Arts & Culture division
    • Manage Arts for All, a free ticketing program at Eccles Theater
    • Participate in division-wide programs, including Cultural Facilities Master Planning,
        Customer Service Task Force, Marketing & Communications committee

Utah Symphony & Opera - Corporate & Government Grants Manager
Wrote two successful NEA grants for a combined $100,000 award

United Way - Loaned Executive
Solicited funds and volunteer help from corporations in Salt Lake County

The Vanguard Group - Account Manager
   • Set-up fundraising program for Jordan Water Conservation Demonstration Garden
      expansion
   • Gathered oral history for Central Utah Water Conservancy District through interviews,
      research, and field work

BOARD EXPERIENCE
Salty Cricket - August 2019 – current. Elected Secretary in November 2019
We provide quality music education through the Salty Cricket El Sistema program and produce
vibrant engaging new music programs featuring Utah composers.

Utah Cultural Alliance - 2006 – 2011. Served as Secretary from 2006-11
Statewide membership association representing and advocating for people and organizations
working in the arts and humanities.
    • Kept minutes of board and executive meetings. Planning committee for annual
       luncheon. Implemented silent auction at annual luncheon to earn ancillary revenue.

Pacific Northwest Jazz - 1997-98
   • Publicity committee for local jazz concert series featuring national and international
        artists.

Whatcom County Red Cross - 1997-98
  • Board Member
                                   Mayor's Office
       flfl
          II D :I
                                   Re-appointment of Robert Wyss to
                                   the Arts Advisory Board.
      MURRAY
                                   Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                    Meeting Date: January 10, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Re-appointment of board member.
Kim Sorensen
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Consider confirmation of the Mayor's re-appointment of Robert
801-264-2619             Wyss to the Arts Advisory Board.
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Resume
Mayor Hales

                    Budget Impact
                         None


                    Description of this tem
Required Time for        Robert Wyss will be re-appointed to the Arts Advisory Board
Presentation             from January 2023 - January 2026.



Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
December 20, 2022
                                                Robert Wyss
                       Highlights of Technical and Service Oriented Experience


Fromtro         Event / Venue                         Location                    Position

1965-1967        Highland High School                 Salt Lake City              Student I Audio Technician

1967-1970        "Promised Valley"                    Outdoor Theater             Lighting Technician
   Served two seasons as chief lighting operator in the original downtown outdoor theater

1970-1982        Location Recording Services          Various                     Owner I Operator
   Served corporate clients by recording & duplicating training seminars (including Boy Scouts of America)

1990-1991        "Hill Cumorah Pageant"               Kingston, Jamaica           Technical Director
   Supervised all aspects of stage construction and event production in a remote location

1994             "Day of Celebration"                 Rice Eccles Stadium         Assistant Technical Director
   Member of production committee, including training of "long throw" spot operators at the LDS Conference Center

2000-2002        2002 Winter Olympics                 Utah Olympic Oval           Technical Official
   Advisor to the Speedskating software development team, coordinated long track timing systems for events

2002-present     US Speedskating                      Utah Olympic Oval           Technical Advisor - Timing
   Responsible for development of electronic timing systems and operator training

2003-present     ISU/US Speedskating Events           U.S. venues                 Technical Advisor
   Responsible for timing system results and coordinate with TV broadcasters on audio and electronic results

2009-2019       School Play & events                  Canyon Rim Academy Technical Volunteer
   Specified new auditorium sound system, provided audio support for numerous indoor and outdoor school events

2010-present    One Voice Children's Choir            Wasatch Front               Technical Director
   Responsible for all aspects of live event sound for over 50 events per year, inc. corporate events and concerts

2011-2015        "Echoes of Christmas"                Liberty Park                Technical Director
   Designed and implemented sound and lighting systems for seven outdoor "mini" pageant stages

2013-present     Holladay Messiah Concert             Olympus H.S.                Event Committee/Tech Advisor
   Responsible for technical aspects of staging and sound (built event YouTube channel during COVID restrictions)

2014            America's Got Talent                  Radio City Music Hall OVCC Tech Director
   Responsible for all rehearsal sound and coordination with on-site live sound engineer

2015             Pioneer Memorial Theater             University of Utah          Student
   Studied theater sound design under Jenn Jackman, PMT resident sound designer

2017             D-Day Commemoration                  Normandy, France            OVCC Technical Director
   Responsible for planning, logistics, and operating multiple on-location sound systems

2017            OVCC Concert Tour                     Paris, France               OVCC Technical Director
   Set up and operated performance sound systems at Eglise De La Madeleire Cathedral and Le Jardin d'Acclimatation
                                     Mayor's Office
       flfl
          II D :I
                                     Re-appointment of Lynn Andersen
                                     to the Senior Rec. Center Board.
      MURRAY
                                     Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                     Meeting Date: January 10, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Re-appointment of board member.
Kim Sorensen
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Consider confirmation of the Mayor's re-appointment of
801-264-2619             Lynn Andersen to the Senior Recreation Center Board.
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Biography
Mayor Hales

                    Budget Impact
                         None


                    Description of this tem
Required Time for        Lynn Andersen will be appointed to the Senior Recreation Center
Presentation             from February 2023 - January 2026.



Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
December 27, 2022
',.   ,-.

                                                                                   November 25, 2019



      Lynn Andersen has lived in Murray for 15 years and has been coming to the center for the last 15 years.
       Lynn enjoys our evening dances and other activities such as, bridge and all other card playing. Pickle ball

       Is where you will find him when he is not playing cards. Lynn has been a member of the Sports Mall here
       in Murray for 40 years. Lynn stays active and fit.

       Lynn has traveled the world. Lynn loves short trips and longs trips. He just got back from a 26-day cruise
       which includes, Hawaii the south sea Islands. Also,the cruise ended in Australia. Then Lynn spend an
       addition 2 weeks in Vietnam.

       Lynn has 2 Adult children a boy and a girl who lives in the sounding area and is very close to.

       Lynn was the proud owner of his own business for 40 years as a general contractor.
                                     Mayor's Office
       flfl
          II D :I
                                     Re-appointment of Susan Hatcher
                                     to the Senior Rec. Center Board.
      MURRAY
                                     Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                     Meeting Date: January 10, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Re-appointment of board member.
Kim Sorensen
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Consider confirmation of the Mayor's re-appointment of
801-264-2619             Susan Hatcher to the Senior Recreation Center Board.
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Biography
Mayor Hales

                    Budget Impact
                         None


                    Description of this tem
Required Time for        Susan Hatcher will be appointed to the Senior Recreation Center
Presentation             from February 2023 - January 2026.



Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
December 27, 2022
                                                                                      November 1, 2019



Susan Hatcher-Advisory board rep lacement for Brenda Clausen



Susan was born July 28, 1946 in Tacoma Washington. Graduated from Mt. Tahoma High School in the
1964. After graduation she join the United States Air force and was stationed in Texas. At the end of her
air force tour she got married and raised 3 beautiful children.

Susan moved to Utah in January 1980. Susan then started working for Mervyns for 22 years. Upon
leaving the company Susan went to work for Walmart, where she is currently still employed. Susan
became a member of the Murray Senior Recreation Center 3 ½ years ago.

Susan is a director of our Readers Theater, trip escort, pen pals, bingo and lunch cashier. Susan is always
willing to help with anything here at the center.

Susan is excited about filling a roll in our Advisory board.
                                     Mayor's Office
       flfl
          II D :I
                                     Appointment of Jai-Dee Riches to
                                     the Arts Advisory Board.
      MURRAY
                                     Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                     Meeting Date: January 10, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Appointment of board member.
Kim Sorensen
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Consider confirmation of the Mayor's appointment of Jai-Dee
801-264-2619             Riches to the Arts Advisory Board.
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Biography
Mayor Hales

                    Budget Impact
                         None


                    Description of this tem
Required Time for        Jaii-Dee Riches will be appointed to the Arts Advisory Board from
Presentation             January 2023 - January 2025. Jai-Dee will replace Clark Bullen
                         who served 2 terms.

Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
December 21, 2020
Jai-Dee Riches
Murray Utah 84107

I have loved the arts my entire life. I immersed my children in as many arts opportunities as I could as I
was raising them. My favorite city to visit is New York and I spend my whole trip attending plays and
musicals. As a teacher I infuse art into our core subjects. I want my students lives to be enriched with
the beauty that the arts bring. I regularly attend various art centered professional development classes
that are hosted by Salt Lake School District. I also attend at least yearly art workshops hosted by BYU.

2007-Present     Started and directed school choirs at Parkside, Grant, Horizon, and Longview.

2007   Coordinated a district wide choral festival with high school director Mr Scott.

2011- 2018     Taught visual art and music at Grant and Horizon.

2014   Directed the Lion King at Horizon.

2017   Directed Annie at Horizon, Grant, and Viewmont.

2019-Present     I teach 3rd grade at Longview Elementary.

2021   Directed Lion King at Longview.
                                   Mayor's Office
       flfl
          II D :I
                                   Appointment of Kev Nemelka to
                                   the Arts Advisory Board.
      MURRAY
                                   Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                    Meeting Date: January 10, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Appointment of board member.
Kim Sorensen
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Consider confirmation of the Mayor's appointment of Kev
801-264-2619             Nemelka to the Arts Advisory Board.
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Resume
Mayor Hales

                    Budget Impact
                         None


                    Description of this tem
Required Time for        Kev Nemelka will be appointed to the Arts Advisory Board from
Presentation             January 2023 - January 2025. Kev will replace Haley Oliphant who
                         has completed her term.

Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
December 20, 2022
Kev Nemelka
https://kevnemelka.com/filter/rn/C-V-C-O-N-T-A-C-T+


PORTFOLIO
+ Select projects compiled here (updated July 2021)


EDUCATION / TRAINING
+ Master of Arts (Contemporary Art / Theory), Arizona State University, 2017
+ Comms/Design Theory coursework, Arizona State University, 2017
+ Museum Hack™ VX Training, ASUAM, 2017
+ Sustainability coursework, Columbia University (Coursera), 2015
+ Bachelor of Arts (Art History & Curatorial Studies), Brigham Young University, 2014
+ Museum Education coursework, Brigham Young University, 2011
+ HS Diploma, Potomac Falls HS / Würzburg American HS, 2006


WORK EXPERIENCE
+ Missionnaire, Manager. SLC, UT
   Jan 2022–present
+ Klaviyo, Senior Designer. Boston, MA
   Aug 2021–present
+ Owlet Care, Art Director / Designer, DEI Chair. Lehi, UT
   Feb 2018–July 2021
+ Upkid, Brand Designer / Consultant. SLC, UT
   Nov 2020–present
+ Freelance, Designer / Director / Stylist. SLC, UT
   Aug 2012–present
+ ASU Art Museum, Designer / Curator / Coordinator. Phoenix, AZ
   Jan 2015–Feb 2018
+ AZ School of Real Estate & Business, Graphic Designer / Marketing Coordinator. Phoenix, AZ
   Sept 2017–Feb 2018
+ PC Music Mgmt, Producer. Phoenix, AZ (London, UK)
   Nov 2017–Feb 2018
+ CALA Alliance, Graphic Designer (retainer). Phoenix, AZ
   June 2017–Oct 2019
+ Phoenix Community College, Adjunct Instructor. Phoenix, AZ
   Jan–July 2017
+ Fictionist/Robert Loud Mgmt, Art Director / Stylist / Designer. Based out of Provo, UT
   Dec 2014–Oct 2017
+ The Institute for Humanities, Curator / Designer. Tempe, AZ
   Aug 2014–June 2016
+ ASU School of Art, Teaching Asst. for Art Dept. Tempe, AZ
   Aug 2014–May 2016
+ Hirshhorn Museum, Smithsonian Institution, Curatorial/Education Intern. Washington, D.C.
   Jan–April 2014
+ BYU Dept. of Visual Arts, Teaching Assistant for Art History and the Visual Arts. Provo, UT
   Sept–Dec 2013
+ QP Collections, Commissioned Artist / Copywriter. Based out of Provo, UT
   Aug–Oct 2013, May–July 2014
+ Déjenos Jugar Calle, Copywriter. Based out of SLC, UT
   July–Aug 2013
+ Utah Museum of Contemporary Art (UMOCA), Curatorial / Design Assistant. SLC, UT
   May–Aug 2013
+ BYU Museum of Art (MOA), Curatorial Assistant. Provo, UT
   April– Aug 2013
+ BYU Harold B. Lee Library, Humanities Reference Assistant (Fine Arts Specialist). Provo, UT
   Sept 2010–Aug 2013
+ Springville Museum of Art, Curatorial Intern. Springville, UT
   Jan–May 2013
+ BYU Kennedy Center, Curator / Program Coordinator. Provo, UT
   Jan–May 2013
+ BYU Art History Department, Research Assistant. Provo, UT
   Dec 2012–May 2013
+ The Hunt Museum, Assistant Curator / Designer. Limerick, Ireland
   June–Aug 2012
+ Central Utah Arts Center (CUAC), Intern. Ephraim, UT
   Sept 2011–Jan 2012
+ BYU Museum of Art (MOA), Assistant Curator of Contemporary Art. Provo, UT
   May–Aug 2011


EXHIBITIONS
+ Project Asterisk – exhibition designer, Oct 2020
+ Neighborhood – exhibition designer, UMOCA, Jan 2019
+ Elena – curator, ASU Art Museum, Jan 2018
+ Actual Source: Call Now – curator, ASU Art Museum, August 2017
+ Euan Macdonald xJumpcuts – co-curator, ASU Art Museum, July 2017
+ Energy Charge – lead designer / asst. to curator, ASU Art Museum, Sept 2016
+ The New Animist – curator, ASU Art Museum, Jul 2016
+ Meta Views – curator, Phoenix Institute of Contemporary Art (phICA), March 2016
+ Watertight: Sandra Ramos – asst. curator, ASU Art Museum, Jan 2016
+ Monstalgia – curator, ASU Institute for Humanities Research, Jan 2016
+ Superflex: Superfake – asst. to curator, ASU Art Museum, Jan 2016
+ Balance-Unbalance – co-curator, Balance-Unbalance International Conference, March 2015
+ The Weight of the World – curator, ASU Institute for Humanities Research, Jan 2015
+ Gravity's Edge – interpretive guide, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Jan 2014
+ Damage Control – interpretive guide, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Jan 2014
+ Markings of Modernity – exhibited in group exhibition, The Startup Building, Dec 2013
+ Golden Days: California Art and Artists – asst. to curator, BYU MOA, Dec 2013
+ Community Action Art Benefit – exhibited in group exhibition, The Startup Building, Nov 2013
+ Tala Madani – asst. to curator, UMOCA, Oct 2013
+ The Age of Godz – solo exhibition, BYU Gallery On Five, Sept 2013
+ GALAXSEA – curator, Gallery on 21st, Aug 2013
+ Royal Nebeker: An Artist’s Journey – asst. to curator, BYU MOA, June 2013
+ Real Life: Paintings by Adam Klopp – curator, Downtown Inc. Gallery Stroll, May 2013
+ International Studies Photo Competition – curator, BYU Kennedy Center, March 2013
+ H U E + M E – curator, Academy Square Gallery, Jan 2013
+ Panel Paintings by Greg Caldwell – curator, Downtown Inc. Gallery Stroll, Oct 2012
+ Student Art Show - juror, BYU Harris Fine Arts Center (HFAC), Oct 2012
+ Paintings by Evan Jolley – curator, Downtown Inc. Gallery Stroll, Sept 2012
+ Think Flat: The Art of Andy Warhol + Takashi Murakami – asst. curator, BYU MOA, Aug 2012
+ AIB Collection Exhibition – asst. curator, The Hunt Museum, July 2012
+ China Through the Lens – asst. to curator, The Hunt Museum, June 2012
+ Faith in Works (Supplementary Exhibition) – exhibited in group exhibition, BYU HFAC, Oct 2011


PUBLICATIONS / PRESENTATIONS
+ Looking for Something: Selected Paintings by Brian Kershisnik (Oct 2018) — back cover praise
  for the artist's practice & collection
+ “Strategic Aesthetics: Business, Marketing and Elevated Design" (Nov 2017) — presentation for
  DECA Western Region Leadership Conference 2017 at Phoenix Art Museum
+ “STE(A)M: Art and Sustainability" (April 2017) — presentation/workshop for Art Impact at
 Phoenix Art Museum
+ “Art and Effective Altruism: Case Studies in Sustainable Practice" (March 2017) — MA thesis
+ “Sustainable Practice: Reconciling Art and Effective Altruism" (April 2016) — presentation for
 TEDx Valencia 2016: Connecting the Dots
+ “LAGI: Toward Sustainable Art and Energy” (March 2016) — original essay presentation at the
 10th Annual Council of Graduate Art Historians Symposium
+ “(Sub)Liminal Ooze” (Jan 2015) — introductory essay for Monstalgia exhibition catalogue
+ “Top 20 Songs of 2015: A Year of Post-Irony and Nostalgia” (Jan 2016) — contemporary music
  thinkpiece for Thought Catalog
+ “A Beginner's Guide to Post-Ironic Pop” (Sept 2015) — contemporary music thinkpiece for
 Thought Catalog
+ “Spirituality and the Revolution in the Art of Béla Kondor” (April 2015) — original essay
  presentation at the 2015 VCU Spirituality and the Arts Conference
+ “Carrie and Lowell and Everyone We Know: On Sufjan Stevens' Nostalgic New Album”
 (March 2015) — contemporary music thinkpiece for Thought Catalog
+ “The Weight of the World: A Contemporary Art Exhibition of Affect, Reason, and
 Sustainability” (March 2015) — original essay presentation at Balance/Unbalance: An
 International Conference on Water, Climate, and Place
+ “Nostalgia in the Art of a Hungarian Revolutionary” (March 2015) — original essay
 presentation at the 9th Annual Council of Graduate Art Historians Symposium
+ “An Atlas Terrestrial” (Jan 2015) — introductory essay for The Weight of the World exhibition
 catalogue
+ “Top 20 Songs of 2014 (According to a Twentysomething Pop Enthusiast)” (Dec 2014) —
 contemporary music thinkpiece for Thought Catalog
+ “'1989' and the Perpetuation of Bad Poptimist Criticism” (Nov 2014) — contemporary music
 thinkpiece for Thought Catalog
+ “The Faux-Naïve Candor of Brian Kershisnik” (Jan 2014) — foreword published in Meyer
 Gallery exhibition catalogue
+ “Béla Kondor and the Transatlanticism of the Faux-Naïve Tradition” (Feb 2013) — presentation
  at 7th Annual Utah Conference on Undergraduate Research
+ “Utah Faux-Naïve: A Conversation with Andrew Ballstaedt, Fidalis Buehler, & Brian Kershisnik”
 (Jan 2013) — interview article published in 15 Bytes: Utah Arts Magazine
+ “Andrew Ballstaedt” (Sept 2011) — biographical article published in Faith in Works large group
 exhibition catalogue


AWARDS / RECOGNITION
+ Fulbright Scholarship Finalist, 2017
+ ASU Graduate and Professional Travel Award, 2016
+ ASU School of Art Student Enrichment Grant, 2016
+ ASU Art Museum Windgate Curatorial Fellowship, 2015–2016
+ ASU Graduate Education Fellowship Award, 2015–2016
+ ASU School of Art Research-Travel Award, 2015
+ ASU Graduate Education Fellowship Award, 2014–2015
+ BYU DVA Art History Senior of the Year Award, 2014
+ BYU DVA REVERB Grant, 2013
+ BYU ORCA Research Grant, 2012
+ BYU Multicultural Academic Scholarship, 2007
VOLUNTEER
+ Black Lives Matter Utah, volunteer. SLC, UT
   May 2020–present
+ Inner-city Youth Program, Leader / Mentor. Phoenix, AZ
   Sept 2015–Feb 2018
+ ASU Council of Graduate Art Historians (CoGAH), President. Tempe, AZ
   Sept 2015–May 2016
+ Society for College and University Planning (SCUP) Pacific Region Conference, Campus
 Public Art Liaison. Tempe, AZ
   Oct 2015–March 2016
+ Balance/Unbalance 2015 Conference, committee member. Tempe, AZ
   Jan–April 2015
+ ASU Council of Graduate Art Historians (CoGAH), Vice President. Tempe, AZ
   Sept 2014–May 2015
+ BYU Museum of Art, Student Docent. Provo, UT
   Sept 2010–Jan 2011
+ ESL Program, English instructor. Budapest, Hungary
   May 2008–March 2010


ADDITIONAL SKILLS
+ Proficient with Adobe CC (Ps, Ai, Ae, Id, etc.)
+ Sketch / Figma experience
+ Photography and retouching
+ Wardrobe and set styling
+ Small-prop fabrication
+ Studio art background / advanced art skills
+ PC / Mac proficiency
+ Shopify web experience
+ Exhibition installation
+ Vinyl cutting and installation
+ Intermediate Google SketchUp
+ Intermediate Hungarian speaking / reading
+ Basic French speaking / reading
+ University-level art history & theory lecture skills
+ Proficient in The Museum System (TMS)
+ Intermediate matting and framing skills


CONTACT
+ Email: kevnemelka@gmail.com


REFERENCES
+ Jessi Blackham (art director, Owlet), jblackham@owletcare.com
+ Brittany Corrales (curator, ASUAM), bcorrale@gmail.com
+ Angelica Fox (curator, MoMA), angelicabrandtfox@gmail.com
+ Jeff Lambson (curator, Emmanuel Gallery), jeffclambson@gmail.com
+ Tyler Morgan (CEO, Upkid), tyler@joinupkid.com
+ Aaron Moulton (curator, Nicodim/Gagosian), aaronkmoulton@gmail.com
+ James Swensen (professor, BYU), james_swensen@byu.edu
                                    Mayor's Office
       flfl
          II D :I
                                    Appointment of Blair Lyon to the
                                    Arts Advisory Board.
      MURRAY
                                    Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                    Meeting Date: January 10, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Appointment of board member.
Kim Sorensen
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Consider confirmation of the Mayor's appointment of
801-264-2619             Blair Lyon to the Arts Advisory Board.
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Resume
Mayor Hales

                    Budget Impact
                         None


                    Description of this tem
Required Time for        Blair Lyon will be appointed to the Arts Advisory Board from
Presentation             January 2023 - January 2025. Blair will replace Jeff Evans who has
                         completed his term.

Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
December 20, 2022
                               Blair Lyon


BACKGROUND SUMMARY
I grew up in a very musical family. My mother played the piano, and
danced in what later became Ballet West; my father was a Music
professor and composer. We performed on our violins regularly in the
community growing up, and in Jr. High and High School I was very
involved in many choral and vocal groups. In college I played in Jazz
and Dance bands, as well as in the Symphony Orchestras, as well as
acting in a few theatrical productions. In Murray I was in the casts of
Beauty and the Beast" (2009) and "The Twelve Dancing Princesses" (as
seen on the Murray Arts website). I feel compelled to disclose that I
have, by request, played in the "pit orchestras" for a few musicals in
Taylorsville, Utah.


EXPERIENCE & EDUCATION
Elementary Music Educator, Salt Lake City School District - Aug. 1989-Jun.2022
K-12 Music Educator, Eureka (NV) School District -Aug. 1987-June 1988
Master of Arts: Music Education, Western Illinois University, Aug. 1995
Bachelor of Arts: Music Education, Utah State University, June 1986
      - Spanish Teaching Minor, USU 1986 (USBE endorsement)
                                    Mayor's Office
       flfl
          II D :I
                                   Appointment of Lindsey Smith to
                                   the Arts Advisory Board.
      MURRAY
                                   Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                    Meeting Date: January 10, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Appointment of board member.
Kim Sorensen
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  Consider confirmation of the Mayor's appointment of Lindsey
801-264-2619             Smith to the Arts Advisory Board.
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         Resume
Mayor Hales

                    Budget Impact
                         None


                    Description of this tem
Required Time for        Lindsey Smith will be appointed to the Arts Advisory Board from
Presentation             January 2023 - January 2025. Jai-Dee will replace Nancy Buist
                         who served 2 terms.

Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
December 27, 2020
Lindsey D. Smith
Choreographer, Dancer, and Teacher
https://lindseydianesmith.wixsite.com/mysite/resume


                                       Choreography Resume
Lindsey is a versatile choreographer. Projects include everything from musical theater productions,
corporate events and industrials, to dance team competitions, pageants, and more.

                                        Performance Resume
Five seasons as a Radio City Rockette, over a decade with Walt Disney World Entertainment,
musical theater productions and countless gigs make Lindsey a seasoned professional.

                                          Teaching Resume
Focusing on a strong technical foundation, partnered with performance and storytelling, Lindsey is
an energetic and inspiring teacher using her personal experience to challenge students.

                                               Education
University of Utah
Bachelor of Fine Arts in Modern Dance
Four years studying dance technique, dance history, kinesiology, improvisation and choreography under
faculty including: Donna White, Abby Fiat, Brent Schneider, Steve Koester, Satu Hummasti, Eric Handman,
Pamela Geber, and Kaye Richards


Broadway Dance Center
Continuing education in NYC
Jim Cooney, Ricky Hinds, Al Blackstone, Josh Bergasse, Ray Hesselink, Michelle Barber, and Sheila Barker.


Early Dance Training
Salt Lake City, UT
The Winner School - Penny Broussard, Eldon Johnson, Brenda Searle, Katie Woodward, Hillary Saccomanno
C&C Ballet Academy
Royal's School of Dance - LeAnn Royal Shultz
Ballet Works - Mary Lee Warner
      M




Business Items
       M




Business Item #1
                                      ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŐĞŶĐǇ
       f\11
          11 D:11
                                      &ŝŶĂŶĐĞΘĚŵŝŶŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶ
                                      ƌĞĚŝƚĂƌĚWƌŽĐĞƐƐŝŶŐ&ĞĞ
     MURRAY
                                      ŽƵŶĐŝůDĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                      DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗:ĂŶƵĂƌǇ10͕ϮϬϮϯ


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 ŵĞŶĚŝƚǇŽƌĚŝŶĂŶĐĞϯ͘Ϭϰ͘ϬϱϬƚŽĂůůŽǁĐƌĞĚŝƚĐĂƌĚƉƌŽĐĞƐƐŝŶŐ
ƌĞŶĚĂDŽŽƌĞ             ĨĞĞƐ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  WƵďůŝĐ,ĞĂƌŝŶŐ͕ĐŽŶƐŝĚĞƌĂƚŝŽŶ
801-264-2513
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         KƌĚŝŶĂŶĐĞ
ƌĞŶĚĂDŽŽƌĞ            

                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞͲƚŚĞĨĞĞǁŝůůŽĨĨƐĞƚƚŚĞĐƌĞĚŝƚĐĂƌĚĞǆƉĞŶƐĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        ŝƚǇŽƌĚŝŶĂŶĐĞĚŽĞƐŶŽƚĂůůŽǁĐƌĞĚŝƚĐĂƌĚƉƌŽĐĞƐƐŝŶŐĨĞĞƐƚŽďĞ
Presentation             ĐŚĂƌŐĞĚ͘dŽŬĞĞƉƚŚĞĨĞĞƐǁĞƉĂǇůŽǁǁĞĐƵƌƌĞŶƚůǇůŝŵŝƚƚŚĞ
                         ĚŽůůĂƌĂŵŽƵŶƚŽĨƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶǁŚŝĐŚŵĂǇďĞƉĂŝĚďǇĐƌĞĚŝƚĐĂƌĚ͕
ϭϬDŝŶƵƚĞƐ               ĂŶĚƌĞƋƵŝƌĞĐŚĞĐŬƐĨŽƌƉĂǇŵĞŶƚƐĂďŽǀĞƚŚĂƚĂŵŽƵŶƚ͘
Is This Time             ŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌƐĂŶĚďƵŝůĚĞƌƐŚĂǀĞĂƐŬĞĚƚŽďĞĂůůŽǁĞĚƚŽƉĂǇďǇ
                         ĐƌĞĚŝƚĐĂƌĚ͕ĂŶĚŚĂǀĞŽĨĨĞƌĞĚƚŽƉĂǇƚŚĞĐƌĞĚŝƚĐĂƌĚĨĞĞ͘dŚŝƐ
Sensitive                ŽƌĚŝŶĂŶĐĞǁŽƵůĚĂůůŽǁ͕ďƵƚŶŽƚƌĞƋƵŝƌĞƚŚĞŝƚǇƚŽĐŚĂƌŐĞĐƌĞĚŝƚ
No                       ĐĂƌĚƉƌŽĐĞƐƐŝŶŐĨĞĞƐ͘dŚĞDĂǇŽƌďǇĞǆĞĐƵƚŝǀĞŽƌĚĞƌǁŽƵůĚďĞƚŚĞ
                         ƉĞƌƐŽŶƚŽƐĞƚƚŚĞĨĞĞ͘
Mayor’s Approval         
                         ƌĞĚŝƚĐĂƌĚĐŽŵƉĂŶǇƌƵůĞƐĂůůŽǁƚŚĞŝƚǇƚŽĐŚĂƌŐĞƉƌŽĐĞƐƐŝŶŐ
                         ĨĞĞƐƵƉƚŽĂŵĂǆŝŵƵŵĨĞĞŽĨϯ͘ϱй͘dŚĞĨĞĞŵĂǇǀĂƌǇďǇĐĂƌĚ
                         ƚǇƉĞ͕ďƵƚŵƵƐƚďĞĐŚĂƌŐĞĚŽŶĂůůƚƌĂŶƐĂĐƚŝŽŶƐǁŝƚŚŝŶĂďƵƐŝŶĞƐƐ
Date
                         ĨƵŶĐƚŝŽŶ͘/͘͘ƵƐŝŶĞƐƐůŝĐĞŶƐĞ͕ďƵŝůĚŝŶŐƉĞƌŵŝƚ͘
EŽǀĞŵďĞƌϮϭ͕ϮϬϮϮ
ŽŶƚŝŶƵĞĚĨƌŽŵWĂŐĞϭ͗
ƵƌƌĞŶƚůǇƚŚĞŽŶůǇĨƵŶĐƚŝŽŶǁĞĂƌĞĚŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŶŐĐŚĂƌŐŝŶŐƉƌŽĐĞƐƐŝŶŐĨĞĞƐŝƐďƵŝůĚŝŶŐƉĞƌŵŝƚƐ͘
ŚĂƌŐŝŶŐƚŚĞĨĞĞƐǁŽƵůĚĂůůŽǁĐŽŶƚƌĂĐƚŽƌƐƚŽƉĂǇs/ĐƌĞĚŝƚĐĂƌĚǁŚĞŶƚŚĞǇƉƵůůƉĞƌŵŝƚƐ͘

dŚĞƌĞŝƐĐƵƌƌĞŶƚůǇŶŽƉůĂŶƚŽĐŚĂƌŐĞĐƌĞĚŝƚĐĂƌĚƉƌŽĐĞƐƐŝŶŐĨĞĞƐŽŶĂŶǇŽƚŚĞƌĐĂƌĚƐƚĂŬĞŶǁŝƚŚŝŶƚŚĞ
ŝƚǇ͘


                                ORDINANCE NO. _____


       AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 3.04.050 OF THE MURRAY CITY
       MUNICIPAL CODE REGARDING ELECTRONIC PAYMENT FEES

       BE IT ENACTED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:

       Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to amend section 3.04.050
of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to electronic payment fees.

       Section 2. Amendment to section 3.04.050 of the Murray City Municipal Code.
Section 3.04.050 of the Murray City Municipal Code shall be amended to read as
follows:

3.04.050: ACCEPTED PAYMENTS; SERVICE FEE FOR RETURNED CHECKS AND
DISHONORED CREDIT CHARGES:

 A. The City, in its sole discretion, may accept any form of legal payment for any
amounts due to the City.

 B.    Electronic Payment Fees.

       1.     As used in this section:

       "Electronic payment" means the payment of money to the City by electronic
means, including by means of a credit card, charge card, debit card, prepaid or stored
value card or similar device, or automatic clearinghouse transaction.

      "Electronic payment fee" means an amount of money to defray the discount fee,
processing fee, or other fee charged by a credit card company or processing agent to
process an electronic payment.

       "Processing agent" means a bank, transaction clearinghouse, or other third party
that charges a fee to process an electronic payment.

      2.     The City may charge an electronic payment fee to defray the discount fee,
processing fee, or other fee charged by a credit card company or processing agent to
process an electronic payment.

       3.      Electronic payment fees shall be established by the Mayor and shall be
itemized separately on the invoice, charge slip, or receipt, and shall be disclosed to the
payer at the time the transaction occurs.

       4.     A payer making an electronic payment must pay the electronic payment
fee established by the Mayor.
  BC. The City may charge a service fee against the drawer, maker or issuer of any
method of payment in favor of the City if the payment is dishonored upon first
presentment by the bank or institution upon which it is drawn. The service fee for
dishonored checks, or debit or credit cards, shall equal twenty dollars ($20.00) or the
service fee identified in Utah Code section 7-15-1(2)(b), or its successor, whichever is
greater. Service fees may be added to the amount owing to the City, as represented by
the dishonored instrument. The City may treat the bill or account sought to be paid by
the dishonored instrument as unpaid until both the original billing and the service fee
penalty amount have been received in cash or equivalent secure method of payment as
may be required by the City. The assessment and collection of the service fee shall not
preclude the initiation of appropriate civil or criminal proceedings against the issuer or
maker of the dishonored instrument. (Ord. 17-17)


      Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first publication.

       PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this ____ day of _______________, 2022.


                                         MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                         ________________________________
                                         Diane Turner, Chair

ATTEST:


______________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

      DATED this ____ day of __________, 20.



                                  Brett A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:
_______________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder



                         CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

      I hereby certify that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published

according to law on the ___ day of _________, 2022.



                                              _______________________
                                              Brooke Smith, City Recorder
       M




Business Item #2
                                    DƵƌƌĂǇŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝů
       f\11
          UDJ
                                    City Council Chair and Vice-Chair
                                    Elections for Calendar Year 2023
      MURRAY
                                    ŽƵŶĐŝůDĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗January 10, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Election of leadership positions for the Murray City Council for
Jennifer Kennedy         calendar year 2023.
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  EŽŵŝŶĂƚŝŽŶƐĂŶĚĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶƐ͘
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         DƵƚŝĞƐŽĨĞĂĐŚŽĨĨŝĐĞ͘
Diane Turner

                    Budget Impact
                         EŽďƵĚŐĞƚŝŵƉĂĐƚ͘


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        A summary of the council chair and council vice-chair duties from
Presentation             the Council Rules and Council Handbook are included.

                         2022 Council Chair - Two consecutive year term limit.
Is This Time             Kat Martinez (January - November)
                         Diane Turner (November - December)
Sensitive
Yes                      2022 Council Vice-Chair - No term limit.
                         Diane Turner (January - November)
Mayor’s Approval         Garry Hrechkosy (December)



Date
December 20, 2022
                             RESOLUTION NO. R23-__

             RESOLUTION APPOINTING THE CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR
             FOR THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL FOR
             CALENDAR YEAR 2023
.

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3b-203, Murray Municipal Code §
2.04.060 and Rules II A and B of the RULES OF THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL
COUNCIL, Murray City Corporation, the City Council must elect a Chair and Vice-Chair
for each calendar year by majority vote of the Council in the first regular Council
meeting in January; and

     WHEREAS, a vote was taken on Tuesday, January 3, 2023 electing
Councilmember _________ as Chair and Councilmember ___________ as Vice-Chair.
        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council
that;

        1.   Councilmember _______ shall serve as Chair of the Murray City Municipal
             Council for calendar year 2023.

        2.   Councilmember ________ shall serve as Vice-Chair of the Murray City
             Municipal Council for calendar year 2023.

        3.   This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its passage and
             adoption.

       PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council,
this ___ day of January 2023.


                                       MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                       _____________________________________
                                                   , Chair


ATTEST:



_______________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
                         RULES OF THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                   MURRAY CITY CORPORATION

       Adopted January 5, 1982. Re-adopted February 23, 1988. Amended April 26, 1988. Amended August 23, 1988.
       Amended April 25, 1989. Amended July 11, 1989. Amended December 12, 1989. Amended January 28, 1992. Amended
       January 25, 1994. Amended August 23, 1994. Amended July 11, 1995. Amended March 10, 1998. Amended June 9,
       1998. Amended September 21, 1998. Amended January 4, 2000. Amended January 16, 2001. Amended May 15, 2001.
       Amended January 8, 2002. Amended April 29, 2003. Amended November 13, 2007. Amended October 7, 2008, October
       20, 2009. Amended November 17, 2009, September 3, 2013, amended February 14, 2017, amended March 20, 2018,
       amended August 27, 2019, amended October 15, 2019, amended July 5, 2022.


I.         INTRODUCTION

       A. Function of Rules. These Rules shall be the governing procedures of the Murray City Municipal
       Council, hereafter referred to as the “Council”.
       B. Adoption. The Council shall adopt these Rules in a regular Council meeting.

       C. Amendment. Any member of the Council may propose amendments to these Rules.
       Amendments shall be submitted in writing to Council members. Amendments shall be approved by
       a two-thirds vote of the entire Council in a regular Council Meeting.

       D. Suspension. The Council may suspend the Rules by a two-thirds vote of Council members
       present.


II.    ORGANIZATION

       A. Chair. A Chair shall be elected for each calendar year by majority vote of the Council in
      the first regular Council meeting in January. Council members may not serve more than two
      consecutive calendar years as Chair.

       The Chair shall be a member of the Council and its presiding officer, sign all ordinances, resolutions,
       and official correspondence, supervise staff, approve Council agendas, issue Council-approved press
       releases, represent the Council at meetings, represent the Council at official ceremonies where
       required, and shall serve as official spokesperson for the Council. The Chair shall also perform all
       other such duties prescribed by these Rules.
       B. Vice-Chair. A Vice-Chair shall be elected for each calendar year by majority vote of the
       Council in the first regular meeting in January.

       The Vice-Chair shall be the presiding Council officer in the temporary absence of the Chair, in the
       event that the Chair is incapacitated due to illness or is otherwise unable to attend Council meetings
       and shall sign as the Chair on all ordinances, resolutions, and official correspondence.

       C. Vacancy in Office of Chair. In the event that the Chair shall vacate his/her office for any
       reason before the term has expired, the Vice-Chair shall become Chair for the remainder of that
       term.

       D. Vacancy in the Office of Vice-Chair. In the event that the Vice-Chair shall vacate his/her
       office for any reason before his/her term has expired, the Council members, by a simple majority
       vote, shall elect a Vice-Chair to complete the term at the first regular Council meeting following the

Page | 1
       vacancy announcement.

       E. Committees. The Council shall have two standing committees: (1) Committee of the
       Whole and (2) Budget and Finance Committee.

       1. The Budget and Finance Committee will convene exclusively for budget related meetings.

       2. Ad hoc committees may be formed as necessary by majority vote of the Council.

       F. Committee Membership. Each Council member shall be a member of both standing
       committees. The membership of ad hoc committees shall be determined by the Council at the time
       such committees are created.

       G. Committee Chairs. Committee Chairs shall be as follows:

       1.     The Council Chair shall serve as the Chair of the Committee of the Whole.

       2.     A Chair and Vice Chair of the Budget and Finance Committee shall be elected for a term of
              one calendar year in the first regular Council meeting in January. Council members may not
              serve more than two consecutive calendar years as Chair of the Budget and Finance
              Committee.

       3.     Board and Committee Membership. Membership on the following committees shall be
              determined in the Committee of the Whole meeting.

                a.   Association of Municipal Councils/Salt Lake County Council of Governments
                b.   Utah League of Cities and Towns/Legislative Policy Committee.
                c.   Murray Area Chamber of Commerce Board.
                d.   Other committees as deemed necessary.

              Committee members above shall be elected for a term of one calendar year in the first
              regular Committee of the Whole meeting in January.


       I. Absences. Council Members shall forfeit any leadership position by failing to attend four
       consecutive regular meetings of the Council (not including Work Sessions) without being excused by
       the Council. Members of the Council may ask to be excused by following the procedure described in
       this paragraph. The member shall contact the Council Chair (and if the Chair seeks an excused
       absence, the Vice-Chair) prior to the meeting and state the reason for the inability to attend the
       meeting. If the member is unable to contact the Chair, the member shall contact the Vice-Chair or
       the Executive Director, who shall convey the message to the Chair. Following the call to order, the
       Chair (or councilmember conducting) shall inform the Council of the member’s absence, state the
       reason for such absence, and inquire if there is a motion to excuse the member. Upon passage of
       such motion by a majority of members present, the absent member shall be considered excused
       and appropriate notations in the minutes.



III. MEETINGS

       A. Regular Meetings. The City Council shall meet not less than once monthly.
       B. Open Meetings. All Council meetings shall be governed by the Utah Open and Public Meetings


Page | 2
                                                                              VIII. Council Leadership




Council Leadership—At the first Council meeting of each year, the Council elects leadership positions for
the calendar year as an action item on the Council Meeting agenda. Nominations will be taken by the
Council Member conducting. Once nominations are concluded for each office, voting will be by roll call or
ballot. Elections take effect immediately after the vote is finalized.

A. Council Chair—Council Members may not serve more than two consecutive calendar years as Chair.
    1. Presides at all Council meetings, except upon delegating or sharing limited conducting responsibili-
       ties with the other four Council Members. The presiding officer at Council Meetings shall be rotat-
       ed monthly among Council Members according to district.
    2. Moves Council Initiatives and projects forward to completion.
    3. Sets Council meeting agendas.
    4. Signs all ordinances, resolutions and other official documents on behalf of the Council.
    5. Communicates official position statements that have been approved by the Council and is spokes-
        person to the media, public, official publications.
    6. Liaison to the Mayor on Council’s behalf.
    7. Disseminates information from the Mayor.
    8. Conducts Committee of the Whole and Workshop meetings.
    9. Supervises Council staff as detailed in the Council Rules.

B. Council Vice-Chair—Elected for one calendar year.

    1. Presiding Officer in the temporary absence of the Chair.

    2. In the event the Chair is incapacitated due to illness or otherwise unable to attend Council
       meetings, Vice- Chair shall sign ordinances, resolutions and other official correspondence.

C. Budget and Finance Committee Chair—Council Members may not serve more than two consecutive
   calendar years as Budget and Finance Committee Chair.
    1. Presiding officer of the Budget and Finance Committee meetings.
    2. Approves the agenda for Budget and Finance Committee meetings.
    3. Coordinates the review and recommendations for annual budget meetings, and financial reports.
    4. May serve on the Capital Improvement Program Committee.
    5. Serves on the Audit Committee.
    6. Other responsibilities relating to budget and finance.
D. Budget and Finance Vice-Chair—Serves in the absence of the Budget and Finance Committee Chair.




                                                                                                              19
       M
       e I   t:OU   l




Business Item #3
                                    DƵƌƌĂǇŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝů
       f\11
          UDJ
                                    Budget & Finance Committee Chair
                                    and Vice-Chair Calendar Year 2023
      MURRAY
                                    ŽƵŶĐŝůDĞĞƚŝŶŐ
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗January 10, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Election of Budget and Finance Committee leadership positions
Jennifer Kennedy         for calendar year 2023.
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  EŽŵŝŶĂƚŝŽŶƐĂŶĚĞůĞĐƚŝŽŶƐ͘
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         ^ĞĞĚƵƚŝĞƐŽĨĞĂĐŚƉŽƐŝƚŝŽŶ͘
Diane Turner

                    Budget Impact
                         EŽďƵĚŐĞƚŝŵƉĂĐƚ͘


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        A summary of the Budget and Finance Committee chair and
Presentation             vice-chair duties from the Council Rules and Council Handbook
                         are included.

Is This Time
                         2022 Budget Chair - Two consecutive year term limit.
Sensitive                Rosalba Dominguez (January - June)
Yes                      Pam Cotter (July - December)
Mayor’s Approval         2022 Budget Vice-Chair - No term limits.
                         Pam Cotter (January - June)
                         Garry Hrechkosy (July - December)
Date
December 20, 2022
                             RESOLUTION NO. R23-__

             RESOLUTION APPOINTING THE CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR
             OF THE BUDGET AND FINANCE COMMITTEE OF THE MURRAY
             CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL FOR CALENDAR YEAR 2023
.

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Rule II(G)(2) of the RULES OF THE MURRAY CITY
MUNICIPAL COUNCIL MURRAY CITY CORPORATION, the City Council must elect a
Chair and Vice-Chair of the Budget and Finance Committee for each calendar year by
majority vote of the Council in the first regular Council meeting in January; and

       WHEREAS, a vote was taken on Tuesday, January 3, 2023 electing
Councilmember _________ as Chair and Councilmember ___________ as Vice-Chair
of the Budget and Finance Committee.
        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council
that;

        1.   Councilmember _______ shall serve as Chair of the Budget and Finance
             Committee of the Murray City Municipal Council for calendar year 2023.

        2.   Councilmember ________ shall serve as Vice-Chair of the Budget and
             Finance Committee of the Murray City Municipal Council for calendar year
             2023.

        3.   This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its passage and
             adoption.

       PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council,
this ___ day of January 2023.


                                       MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                       _____________________________________
                                                   , Chair


ATTEST:



_______________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
       vacancy announcement.

       E. Committees. The Council shall have two standing committees: (1) Committee of the
       Whole and (2) Budget and Finance Committee.

       1. The Budget and Finance Committee will convene exclusively for budget related meetings.

       2. Ad hoc committees may be formed as necessary by majority vote of the Council.

       F. Committee Membership. Each Council member shall be a member of both standing
       committees. The membership of ad hoc committees shall be determined by the Council at the time
       such committees are created.

       G. Committee Chairs. Committee Chairs shall be as follows:

       1.     The Council Chair shall serve as the Chair of the Committee of the Whole.

       2.     A Chair and Vice Chair of the Budget and Finance Committee shall be elected for a term of
              one calendar year in the first regular Council meeting in January. Council members may not
              serve more than two consecutive calendar years as Chair of the Budget and Finance
              Committee.

       3.     Board and Committee Membership. Membership on the following committees shall be
              determined in the Committee of the Whole meeting.

                a.   Association of Municipal Councils/Salt Lake County Council of Governments
                b.   Utah League of Cities and Towns/Legislative Policy Committee.
                c.   Murray Area Chamber of Commerce Board.
                d.   Other committees as deemed necessary.

              Committee members above shall be elected for a term of one calendar year in the first
              regular Committee of the Whole meeting in January.


       I. Absences. Council Members shall forfeit any leadership position by failing to attend four
       consecutive regular meetings of the Council (not including Work Sessions) without being excused by
       the Council. Members of the Council may ask to be excused by following the procedure described in
       this paragraph. The member shall contact the Council Chair (and if the Chair seeks an excused
       absence, the Vice-Chair) prior to the meeting and state the reason for the inability to attend the
       meeting. If the member is unable to contact the Chair, the member shall contact the Vice-Chair or
       the Executive Director, who shall convey the message to the Chair. Following the call to order, the
       Chair (or councilmember conducting) shall inform the Council of the member’s absence, state the
       reason for such absence, and inquire if there is a motion to excuse the member. Upon passage of
       such motion by a majority of members present, the absent member shall be considered excused
       and appropriate notations in the minutes.



III. MEETINGS

       A. Regular Meetings. The City Council shall meet not less than once monthly.
       B. Open Meetings. All Council meetings shall be governed by the Utah Open and Public Meetings


Page | 2
                                                                              VIII. Council Leadership




Council Leadership—At the first Council meeting of each year, the Council elects leadership positions for
the calendar year as an action item on the Council Meeting agenda. Nominations will be taken by the
Council Member conducting. Once nominations are concluded for each office, voting will be by roll call or
ballot. Elections take effect immediately after the vote is finalized.

A. Council Chair—Council Members may not serve more than two consecutive calendar years as Chair.
    1. Presides at all Council meetings, except upon delegating or sharing limited conducting responsibili-
       ties with the other four Council Members. The presiding officer at Council Meetings shall be rotat-
       ed monthly among Council Members according to district.
    2. Moves Council Initiatives and projects forward to completion.
    3. Sets Council meeting agendas.
    4. Signs all ordinances, resolutions and other official documents on behalf of the Council.
    5. Communicates official position statements that have been approved by the Council and is spokes-
        person to the media, public, official publications.
    6. Liaison to the Mayor on Council’s behalf.
    7. Disseminates information from the Mayor.
    8. Conducts Committee of the Whole and Workshop meetings.
    9. Supervises Council staff as detailed in the Council Rules.

B. Council Vice-Chair—Elected for one calendar year.

    1. Presiding Officer in the temporary absence of the Chair.

    2. In the event the Chair is incapacitated due to illness or otherwise unable to attend Council
       meetings, Vice- Chair shall sign ordinances, resolutions and other official correspondence.

C. Budget and Finance Committee Chair—Council Members may not serve more than two consecutive
   calendar years as Budget and Finance Committee Chair.
    1. Presiding officer of the Budget and Finance Committee meetings.
    2. Approves the agenda for Budget and Finance Committee meetings.
    3. Coordinates the review and recommendations for annual budget meetings, and financial reports.
    4. May serve on the Capital Improvement Program Committee.
    5. Serves on the Audit Committee.
    6. Other responsibilities relating to budget and finance.
D. Budget and Finance Vice-Chair—Serves in the absence of the Budget and Finance Committee Chair.




                                                                                                              19
       M




Business Item #4
                                      DƵƌƌĂǇŝƚǇŽƵŶĐŝů
       f\11
          UDJ
                                      ŽƵŶĐŝůŽĂƌĚƐĂŶĚŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞƐ
     MURRAY
                                      Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                      DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗January 10, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Appointment of Council Member's to Boards and Committees
:ĞŶŶŝĨĞƌ<ĞŶŶĞĚǇ        for calendar year 2023.
ŽƵŶĐŝůŝƌĞĐƚŽƌ    Action Requested
Phone #                  ƉƉƌŽǀĂůŽĨĂƚƚĂĐŚĞĚƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         ZĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶ
Pam Cotter

                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        ƉƉŽŝŶƚŵĞŶƚŽĨŽƵŶĐŝůDĞŵďĞƌΖƐƚŽŽĂƌĚƐĂŶĚŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞƐ
Presentation             
                         
                         
Is This Time             
                         
Sensitive                
No

Mayor’s Approval



Date
December 20, 2022
                             RESOLUTION NO. R23-__


      A RESOLUTION APPROVING THE CITY COUNCIL’S APPOINTMENT
      OF REPRESENTATIVES TO BOARDS AND COMMITTEES.

      WHEREAS, the City Council (“Council”) annually appoints Council members to
the Association of Municipal Councils, the Capital Improvement Program, the Utah
League of Cities and Towns Legislative Policy Committee and the Chamber of
Commerce Board; and

     WHEREAS, the Council has discussed appointments to these boards and
committees; and

      WHEREAS, the Council wants to formally approve the appointments.

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council
that it hereby approves the following appointments:

      1.    Councilmember ___________ to the Association of Municipal Councils.

      2.    Councilmember ___________ to the Capital Improvement Program.

      3.    Councilmember ___________ to the Utah League of Cities and Towns
            Legislative Policy Committee.

      4.    Councilmember ___________ to the Chamber of Commerce Board.

      These appointments shall take effect immediately.

      DATED this 18th day of January, 2023.

                                       MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                       ________________________________
                                                  , Chair

ATTEST:

________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
                                 RESOLUTION NO. R22-01

I         A RESOLUTION APPROVING THE CITY COUNCIL'S APPOINTMENT
          OF REPRESENTATIVES TO BOARDS AND COMMITTEES.

          WHEREAS, the City Council ("Council") annually appoints Council members to
    the Association of Municipal Councils, the Capital Improvement Program , the Utah
    League of Cities and Towns Legislative Policy Committee and the Chamber of
    Commerce Board; and

         WHEREAS, the Council has discussed appointments to these boards and
    committees; and

          WHEREAS, the Council wants to formally approve the appointments.

            NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council
    that it hereby approves the following appointments:

          1.    Councilmember Diane Turner to the Association of Municipal Councils .

          2.    Councilmember Pam Cotter to the Capital Improvement Program.


I         3.    Councilmember Rosalba Dominguez to the Utah League of Cities and
                Towns Legislative Policy Committee.

          4.    Councilmember Pam Cotter to the Chamber of Commerce Board.

          These appointments shall take effect immediately.

          DATED this 18th day of January, 2022.

                                           MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL




                                           Kat Martinez, Chair




I
       M
       C   T   CCU   L




Business Item #5
                                      Mayor's Office

       flfl II D :1
                                      Mayor's appointment to Interlocal
                                      Boards and Commissions
      MURRAY
                                      Council Meeting
Council Action Request
                                      Meeting Date: January 10, 2023


Department            Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Consider Mayor's appointment of representatives to Interlocal
Mayor Brett Hales        Boards and Commissions
                      Action Requested
Phone #                  Approve Resolution
801-264-2600
                      Attachments
Presenters
                         Resolution
Mayor Brett Hales

                      Budget Impact
                         n/a


                      Description of this tem
Required Time for        Per Interlocal Agreements, the City has many representatives
Presentation             that serve on various boards and commissions. The mayor
                         recommends the representatives and the city council confirms
5 Minutes                their appointment.
Is This Time
Sensitive
Yes

Mayor’s Approval



Date
December 9, 2022
                             RESOLUTION NO. _____


      A RESOLUTION APPROVING THE MAYOR’S APPOINTMENT OF
      REPRESENTATIVES TO BOARDS OF INTERLOCAL ENTITIES AND TO A
      COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION.

       WHEREAS, the Mayor needs to make appointments to the governing boards of
the Utah Associated Municipal Power Systems (UAMPS), Central Valley Water
Reclamation Facility, Salt Lake Valley Emergency Communications Center (VECC),
TransJordan Cities, Utah Telecommunication Open Infrastructure Agency (UTOPIA),
Utah Infrastructure Agency (UIA), Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District,
Intermountain Power Agency, Metro Fire Agency, Jordan River Commission
(collectively “Interlocal Entities”), and to NeighborWorks Salt Lake; and

       WHEREAS, the Mayor has made appointments to the governing boards of the
Interlocal Entities and to the Community Development Corporation; and

      WHEREAS, the Mayor wants approval by the Murray City Municipal Council of
the appointments;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Murray City Municipal Council
that it hereby approves the following appointments:

      1.    Blaine Haacke as the City’s representative to the Utah Associated
            Municipal Power Systems (UAMPS) Board with Greg Bellon as the
            alternate representative.

      2.    Mayor Brett Hales as the City’s representative to the Central Valley Water
            Reclamation Facility Board with Ben Ford as the alternate representative.

      3.    Doug Hill as the City’s representative to the Salt Lake Valley Emergency
            Communications Center (VECC) Board with Craig Burnett as the alternate
            representative.

      4.    Lynn Potter as the City’s representative to the TransJordan Cities Board
            with Russ Kakala as the alternate representative.

      5.    Doug Hill as the City’s representative to the Utah Telecommunication
            Open Infrastructure Agency (UTOPIA) Board with Brenda Moore as the
            alternate representative.

      6.    Brenda Moore as the City’s representative to the Utah Infrastructure
            Agency (UIA) Board with Doug Hill as the alternate representative.
     7.    Councilmember Phil Markham as the City’s representative to the Wasatch
           Front Waste and Recycling District Board.

     8.    Blaine Haacke as the City’s representative to the Intermountain Power
           Agency Board with Greg Bellon as the alternate representative.

     9.    Doug Hill as the City’s representative to the Metro Fire Agency Board.

     10.   Mayor Brett Hales as the City’s representative to the Jordan River
           Commission with Kim Sorensen as the alternate representative.

     11.   Jared Hall as the City’s representative to NeighborWorks Salt Lake Board.


     These appointments shall take effect immediately.


     DATED this    day of       , 2023.


                                      MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL



                                      _____________________________________
                                                   , Council Chair

ATTEST:



________________________________
Brooke Smith, City Recorder
      MUR R,AY
     C I T1f   COIU HICIIL




 Mayor's
 Report
And Questions
     M
     e 1 · · COU   C L




Adjournment
