Committee of the
 Whole Meeting
 July 18, 2023
                               Murray City Municipal Council
                                Committee of the Whole
                                     Meeting Notice
                                                    July 18, 2023
                                                  Murray City Center

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Murray City Municipal Council will hold a Committee of the
Whole meeting beginning at 5:30 p.m. on Tuesday, July 18, 2023 in the Poplar Meeting Room #151 located
at Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800 South, Murray, UT.

Meeting Agenda

5:30 p.m.          Committee of the Whole – Poplar Meeting Room #151
                   Garry Hrechkosy conducting

Approval of Minutes
    Committee of the Whole – June 27, 2023

Discussion Items
    1. Discussion on the Fraud Risk Assessment – Brenda Moore presenting (5 minutes)
    2. Reports from Interlocal Boards and Committees (5 minutes each)
        a. TransJordan Landfill – Russ Kakala
        b. Association of Municipal Councils (AMC) – Diane Turner
        c. Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD) – Phil Markham
        d. Murray Chamber of Commerce – Rosalba Dominguez
        e. Legislative Policy Committee – Pam Cotter
        f. Jordan River Commission – Kim Sorensen

Adjournment


NOTICE

Supporting materials are available for inspection on the Murray City website at www.murray.utah.gov.

Special accommodations for the hearing or visually impaired will be made upon a request to the office of the Murray City Recorder
(801-264-2663). We would appreciate notification two working days prior to the meeting. TTY is Relay Utah at #711.

Council Members may participate in the meeting via telephonic communication. If a Council Member does participate via
telephonic communication, the Council Member will be on speaker phone. The speaker phone will be amplified so that the other
Council Members and all other persons present in the Poplar Meeting Room will be able to hear all discussions.

On Friday, July 14, 2023, at 9:00 a.m., a copy of the foregoing notice was posted in conspicuous view in the front foyer of the
Murray City Hall, Murray, Utah. Copies of this notice were provided for the news media in the Office of the City Recorder. A copy
of this notice was posted on Murray City’s internet website www.murray.utah.gov. and the state noticing website at
http://pmn.utah.gov .




                                                                     Jennifer Kennedy
                                                                     Council Executive Director
                                                                     Murray City Municipal Council
 Committee
of the Whole
   Minutes
                                      MURRAY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                       COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
                                              Meeting Minutes
                                           Tuesday, June 27, 2023
             Murray City Hall, 10 East 4800 South, Poplar Conference Room, Murray, Utah 84107
Attendance:
  Council Members and others:
  Garry Hrechkosy – Chair     District #5
  Phil Markham – Vice Chair   District #1
  Pam Cotter                  District #2
  Rosalba Dominguez           District #3
  Diane Turner                District #4

    Brett Hales        Mayor                         Jennifer Kennedy City Council Executive Director
    Brenda Moore       Finance Director              Pattie Johnson   Council Administration
    Emily Barton       Finance Director              Brooke Smith     City Recorder
    G.L. Critchfield   City Attorney                 Joey Mittelman Fire Chief
    Kim Sorensen       Parks and Recreation Director Steve Roberson Deputy Fire Marshal
    Loran Pasalich     Murray Chamber of Commerce Citizens

Conducting: Council Member Hrechkosy called the meeting to order at 5:30 pm.

Approval of Minutes: None Scheduled.

Discussion Items:
• Amend the regular meeting schedule of the Murray City Council for calendar year 2023.
      City Council Executive Director Jennifer Kennedy said that due to recent adjustments to the 2023
      Utah Municipal Election timetable and the need for the City to hold a Truth in Taxation meeting,
      changes were needed to the existing council meeting schedule. The following changes would be
      considered in the council meeting:
         Cancel the August 15, 2023 council meeting and schedule the Truth in Taxation meeting for
            August 22, 2023. The council meetings for August will be held on August 1 and August 24,
            2023.
         Cancel the September 5, 2023 council meeting for the primary election. The council meetings
            for September will be held on September 12 and September 19, 2023.
         Cancel the November 21, 2023 council meeting for the general election. The November
            council meetings will be held on November 7 and November 14, 2023.
         Cancel the December 5, 2023 council meeting and move it to Wednesday, December 6, 2023.
            The December 12, 2023 meeting would remain the same.

       In addition:
          Schedule a joint workshop with Millcreek City on August 24, 2023. Ms. Kennedy reported that
             Millcreek City requested a meeting with the Murray City Council. The purpose is to discuss
             future plans for the TRAX North Transit Station because both Murray and Millcreek own
             property in the Fireclay area.

•    City Council Travel Policy updates.
       Council Chair Garry Hrechkosy noted that since his initial proposal to update the Council Travel
       Policy, several discussions had occurred prompting other Council Members to submit proposals and
       amendments of their own to the current travel policy. He said as an elected official it was important
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of June 27, 2023                            DRAFT                                                Page 2


       to be transparent about what the Council actually spends on travel.

       He said his main reason for updating the policy was to bring all travel expenses into the City Council’s
       travel budget. He felt this would bring clarity because some travel funding comes from other city
       department budgets. Also, to avoid unlimited spending, he proposed to implement an annual
       spending cap of up to $7,500 per council member. Mr. Hrechkosy studied the cost of each
       conference that Council Members are allowed to attend, spoke to various legislators who attend
       one conference per year, compared travel budgets of other municipalities to the Council and
       evaluated past travel spending of the Council over the years. As a result, he found that the Council
       has a higher travel budget than most other city councils. In addition, with current inflation, a
       possible power rate increase and a possible property tax increase coming, he thought it would be
       prudent of them to adjust the current travel policy.

       Ms. Turner felt there were no problems with the current travel policy and stated travel was a
       function of the Council. She expressed concern about having a predetermined amount of travel
       money because, as far as she knew, the Council has never exceeded their travel budget. She thought
       budgeting one amount for the whole Council to use was sufficient. She said not all Council Members
       go to every conference and she did not feel that it was one Council Members’ role to determine the
       educational needs of another council member. She proposed a requirement that after educational
       travel a report be given publicly following any conference attendance.

       Ms. Cotter suggested that before reimbursements not consistent with the travel policy be paid out,
       a majority vote by the Council be required in a public meeting. Mr. Hrechkosy agreed to include that
       in his update. Ms. Cotter discussed existing policy stating that Council Members may choose only
       one out of two power conferences held each year. Ms. Turner proposed that the option be stricken
       from the language so that Council Members could attend both power conferences if they desire.

       Mr. Hrechkosy agreed the Council never exceeded the travel budget in the past, however he
       thought it would be easy to do because one current council member has already spent $9,000 so
       far this year. He said if all Council Members did this, total spending would be $54,000 which exceeds
       the set budget of $35,000.

       Ms. Turner asked what would happen if a Council Member attended a conference that resulted in
       going over the predetermined $7,500. Mr. Hrechkosy said any amount spent over the $7,500 would
       be paid back to the City. He pointed out that the Council also receives the highest council allowance
       of any city in the State. Ms. Cotter said taxpayer money should be spent in a frugal way and agreed
       due to current inflation and a possible power rate increase coming, the power department should
       not be paying for the council to travel. Mr. Markham agreed it was wise fiscal policy to have an
       established spending amount because open ended accounting was not wise. He suggested any
       money needed beyond the set spending limit would require consensus from the City Council. Mr.
       Hrechkosy said elected officials are a different entity from administrative employees who travel for
       learning. Ms. Turner disagreed and thought the set limit would discourage Council Members from
       becoming educated.

       Ms. Dominguez proposed a $9,500 spending cap per Council Member. She thought there should be
       no dictation about what conferences Council Members can attend. She did not oppose the $7,500
       but thought learning and gaining better understanding of any department in the City was beneficial.
       She noted other conferences not included in the given choices that might help them in the
Murray City Municipal Council
Committee of the Whole
Minutes of June 27, 2023                          DRAFT                                             Page 3


       legislative role and suggested making those exceptions.

       Various edits were discussed regarding last minute travel needs critical to decision making that
       would require a public council meeting vote for extenuating circumstances. There was consensus
       to include the language in the travel policy update and that these expenditures would still come
       from the City Council Travel budget.

       Ms. Cotter proposed a $5,800 spending cap which totaled slightly under the existing $35,000 travel
       budget. She stressed how the City has department directors who can educate the City Council after
       they attend conferences. Due to the possibility of a power rate increase, she was more comfortable
       with proposing a less amount than $7,500.

       Mr. Hrechkosy, Ms. Turner, and Ms. Cotter asked that their proposals move forward to the council
       meeting for a final vote.

Adjournment: 6:08 p.m.
                                                                 Pattie Johnson
                                                                 Council Office Administrator III
Discussion
   Items
Discussion
 Item #1
                                      ĞƉĂƌƚŵĞŶƚͬŐĞŶĐǇ
                                      &ŝŶĂŶĐĞ Θ ĚŵŝŶŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶ
                                      ŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ &ƌĂƵĚ ZŝƐŬ
                                      ƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚ

                                      ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ tŚŽůĞ
Council Action Request
                                      DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗July 18, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 ŝƐĐƵƐƐ ƚŚĞ &ƌĂƵĚ ZŝƐŬ ƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚ ĂƐ ƌĞƋƵŝƌĞĚ ďǇ ƚŚĞ ^ƚĂƚĞ
ƌĞŶĚĂ DŽŽƌĞ             ƵĚŝƚŽƌ
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  ŝƐĐƵƐƐŝŽŶ
801-264-2513
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         ŽŵƉůĞƚĞĚ ĨƌĂƵĚ ƌŝƐŬ ĂƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚ
ƌĞŶĚĂ DŽŽƌĞ

                    Budget Impact
                         EŽŶĞ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for        dŚĞ ^ƚĂƚĞ ƵĚŝƚŽƌ ŽĨ hƚĂŚ ŝƐ ƌĞƋƵŝƌŝŶŐ Ăůů ůŽĐĂů ŐŽǀĞƌŶŵĞŶƚƐ ƚĂŬĞ
Presentation             Ă &ƌĂƵĚ ZŝƐŬ ƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚ ĂŶŶƵĂůůǇ͘ dŚĞǇ ĂůƐŽ ƌĞƋƵŝƌĞ ƚŚĂƚ ƚŚĞ
                         ĂƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚ ďĞ ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ŝƚǇΖƐ ŐŽǀĞƌŶŝŶŐ ďŽĂƌĚ ĂŶĚ ƚŚĂƚ
5 Minutes                ƚŚĞ ŝƚǇΖƐ ŚŝĞĨ KƉĞƌĂƚŝŶŐ KĨĨŝĐĞƌ ĂŶĚ ŚŝĞĨ &ŝŶĂŶĐŝĂů KĨĨŝĐĞƌ
Is This Time             ĐĞƌƚŝĨǇ ƚŚĞ ƌĞƐƵůƚƐ͘ /ƚ ǁŝůů ďĞ ƐĞŶƚ ƚŽ ƚŚĞ ƐƚĂƚĞ ĂƵĚŝƚŽƌ ďǇ
                         ĞĐĞŵďĞƌ ϯϭ͘
Sensitive
No                        ĨƌĂƵĚ ƌŝƐŬ ůĞǀĞů ǁŝůů ďĞ ĂƐƐŝŐŶĞĚ ďĂƐĞĚ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ŶƵŵďĞƌ ŽĨ ƉŽŝŶƚƐ
                         ĞĂƌŶĞĚ ŽŶ ƚŚĞ ĂƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚ͘ ƚƚĂĐŚĞĚ ŝƐ Ă ĐŽƉǇ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ ƉĂƌƚŝĂůůǇ
Mayor’s Approval         ĐŽŵƉůĞƚĞĚ ĂƐƐĞƐƐŵĞŶƚ͕ ǁŝƚŚ Ă ƚŽƚĂů ŽĨ ϯϱϱ ƉŽŝŶƚƐ͘ dŚŝƐ ƉůĂĐĞƐ ƚŚĞ
                         ŝƚǇ ŝŶ ƚŚĞ sĞƌǇ >Žǁ ZŝƐŬ ĐĂƚĞŐŽƌǇ͘

Date
July 3, 2023
ŽŶƚŝŶƵĞĚĨƌŽŵWĂŐĞϭ͗
ůů&ŝŶĂŶĐĞĂŶĚĚŵŝŶŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶƐƚĂĨĨĂƌĞƌĞƋƵŝƌĞĚƚŽƌĞĂĚĂŶĚĐĞƌƚŝĨǇŝŶǁƌŝƚŝŶŐƚŚĂƚƚŚĞǇǁŝůůĂďŝĚĞ
ďǇƚŚĞŝƚǇΖƐƚŚŝĐƐKƌĚŝŶĂŶĐĞ͘ƐůŽŶŐĂƐƚŚĞŵĂǇŽƌΖƐŽĨĨŝĐĞĂŶĚŵĞŵďĞƌƐŽĨƚŚĞĐŝƚǇĐŽƵŶĐŝů
ĐŽŶƚŝŶƵĞƚŽĨŽůůŽǁƚŚŝƐƉƌĂĐƚŝĐĞĂƐǁĞůů͕ƚŚĞƌĞƐƉŽŶƐĞƚŽƋƵĞƐƚŝŽŶĨŽƵƌǁŝůůĐŽŶƚŝŶƵĞƚŽďĞĂΗzĞƐΗ͘

/ŶŽƌĚĞƌƚŽĐŽŶƚŝŶƵĞƚŽĂŶƐǁĞƌŝƚĞŵϱĂƐĂΗzĞƐΗĂŶĚƚŽŵĂŬĞƚƌĂĐŬŝŶŐƐŝŵƉůĞ͕ĂůůĞůĞĐƚĞĚŽĨĨŝĐŝĂůƐ
ƐŚŽƵůĚƚĂŬĞƚŚĞŽŶͲůŝŶĞƚƌĂŝŶŝŶŐƚŚĞǇĞĂƌƚŚĞǇĂƌĞĞůĞĐƚĞĚŽƌƌĞͲĞůĞĐƚĞĚ͘

Discussion
 Item #2
                                    ŝƚǇ ŽƵŶĐŝů ĂŶĚ
                                    ĚŵŝŶŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶ
                                   /ŶƚĞƌůŽĐĂů ŽĂƌĚƐ ĂŶĚ ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ
                                   ZĞƉŽƌƚƐ

                                    ŽŵŵŝƚƚĞĞ ŽĨ ƚŚĞ tŚŽůĞ
Council Action Request
                                    DĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƚĞ͗July 18, 2023


Department          Purpose of Proposal
Director                 Reports from Murray City representatives who serve on
Jennifer Kennedy         interlocal boards, committees and commissions.
                    Action Requested
Phone #                  /ŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶĂů ŽŶůǇ͘
801-264-2622
                    Attachments
Presenters
                         EŽŶĞ
Ɛ >ŝƐƚĞĚ

                    Budget Impact
                         Eͬ


                    Description of this /tem
Required Time for           Biannual reports from City representatives who serve on
Presentation                   Interlocal Boards and Commissions (5 minutes each)

30 Minutes                  a. TransJordan Landfill - Russ Kakala
Is This Time                b. Association of Municipal Councils (AMC) - Diane Turner
                            c. Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD) - Phil
Sensitive                      Markham
No                          d. Murray Chamber of Commerce - Rosalba Dominguez
                            e. Legislative Policy Committee (LPC) - Pam Cotter
Mayor’s Approval            f. Jordan River Commission - Kim Sorensen



Date
July 5, 2023
Adjournment
